ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u1	Please, registration mode. Mrs. Petrova will participate today remotely. Mrs. Petrova, you're also registered.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u2	(GERB, via internet platform for video conference): Yes. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. 121 are those registered in the Chamber plus 1 remote " 122" are today's registered MPs, 62 is the majority with which we make a decision in the plenary. Draft Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for 27 January 2021: "1." Selection of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 18 December 2020. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act. Importer (s) The Council of Ministers on 2 November 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 10 December 2020. 3. First vote on the Draft Law on the provision of digital content and digital services and the sale of goods. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act. Importers Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs on 14 January 2021 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Structure in the Area. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 22 October 2020 by the Council of Ministers, 25 August 2020; the Council of Ministers, 12 October 2020. 6. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer Daniela Daritkova on 16 December 2020 Point 1 for Thursday 28 January 2021 7. Second vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. Importers supplied on 15 January 2021 by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. Adopted in the first vote on 22 January 2021. Point 2 for Thursday 28 January 2021 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021 Point 3 for Thursday 28 January 2021 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. Point 4 for Thursday 28 January 2021 10. Second vote on the Bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers supplied on 3 December 2020 by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. Adopted at first vote on 18 December 2020. Point 1 for Friday 29 January 2021 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2021 Point 2 for Friday 29 January 2021 12. Parliamentary control after the legislative part of the meeting was concluded on Friday 29 January 2021. Please vote on the presented National Assembly Work Programme this week. Vote 160 MPs: 116 against 13, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 20 January 2021 to 26 January 2021: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds; the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; the Committee on Environment and Water; the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors for the audit of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry with more than 50 percent state participation in capital. Importers are Desislaw Chukolov and Pavel Shopov. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. A bill to supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency "Research" for 2021 and Project Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation, use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2021. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds; the Committee on Budget and Finance; the Committee on Legal Affairs; the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; the Committee on Energy; the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management; the Committee on Foreign Policy; the Committee on Defence; the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order; the Committee on Agriculture and Food; the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; the Committee on Education and Science; the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport; the Committee on Health; the Committee on Environment and Water; the Committee on Transport, Information Technologies and Communications; the Committee on Culture and Media; the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens; the Committee on Corruption and Human Rights; the Commission on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics; the Committee on the Control of Security Services, the Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Funds and Access to Data on Electronic Communications; the Committee on Bultures in Foreign Affairs; the Committee on the Committee on the Committee on the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating Economics and Traffickings. Draft Decision approving the European Union Decision of Euratom 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU Euratom. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Report on the hearing of the proposed candidates as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The Committee on Culture and Media is the importer. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft with crew of the Air Force members to provide air transport for the transport of a Bulgarian military delegation, led by the Chief of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and a delegation of the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to participate in the winter session of meetings at the level of the Chiefs of Defence of the NATO Military Committee and meeting of the EU Military Committee between 26 January 2021 on a route from Sofia airport to Melsbruck Airport, Brussels, Belgium, and back to Sofia airport. The notification was received on 26 January 2021 with entry No 103-09-4 and was made available to the Defence Committee. On 21 January 2021, the National Assembly was provided with material containing adopted acts by the Economic and Social Council for the period 2004 - 2020, in summary. The material is provided by letter to the President of the National Assembly of all Standing Committees and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The adopted acts of the Economic and Social Council are published on the Council's website. Last message: The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 22 December 2020. "21 January 2021 and Protocol No 2 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 22 January 2021, at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda. SELECTION OF THE GENERAL DIRECTOR OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENCY. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 18 December 2020. I'll read you the procedure. Choose the Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency from the National Assembly: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Culture and Media shall present to the National Assembly the report on the hearing of candidates. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the proposer within two minutes for each candidate. 4. Following the presentation of the Report under point two and of the candidates, the National Assembly shall hold a debate under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. 6. In cases where there are several candidates, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on their respective names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs shall be considered elected. 8. If two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 9. In the event that none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 10. In cases where, in the case of a re-vote under point (c), 9 None of the candidates received the necessary votes or when some of the candidates opted out before the election of his candidacy in the National Assembly and he was the only candidate, the National Assembly adopted a decision to open a new procedure for the election of the Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. When there is no candidate, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency by the National Assembly. The nominations and the report will present to us Mr. Bikov. First admission procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u3	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly please allow Mr. Ivaylo Danailov and Mr. Kiril Valchev to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u4	Please vote on this procedure. Vote 174 MPs: for 173, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the candidates to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u5	♪ I can't believe on hearing the proposed candidates as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency At an open meeting held on 21 January 2021 and broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Culture and Media Commission held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency under Section V of the adopted Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Director-General of the BTA, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, and the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as Rules of Procedure. Two proposals for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency were received in the National Assembly: for Kiril Alexandrov Valchev, requested by the MPs Vezhdi Rashidov, Toma Bikov, Asya Peeva, Evgeni Budinov, Emilia Milkova, Radoslava Chekanska, Krasimir Velchev and Kalin Velov; and for Ivaylo Stefanov Danailov on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Vezdi Rashidov, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, noted that the required documents under Section I are presented to the proposals. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u6	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u7	In the current verification, no documents certifying the belonging of the two candidates have been found, according to the provisions of art. 25 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. As a result of a check carried out by the administration of the National Assembly it is established that the candidates are not convicted and are not exempt from criminal liability under art. 78a of the Penal Code. Ivaylo Stefanov Danailov's candidacy was presented by Mr. Alexander Simov. The candidacy of Kiril Alexandrov Valchev was presented by Mr. Toma Bikov. After the presentation the candidates added data from their professional biography and presented their views on the development of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Ivaylo Danailov emphasized on the provision of quick and professional information, highlighted the importance of internal information, foreign information, increasing correspondents abroad, digitalization of the Agency, easier access to information on the Agency's website, conducting trainings of journalists. He noted the importance of public opinion, but pointed out that an agency should not be managed by public opinion, but by professionalism, speed and accuracy. Kiril Valchev emphasized in his presentation of the ten points for the development of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency: impartial, accurate and fast information; free distribution of information on public organizations and activities; free information products; extension of forms and channels for presentation of information; investment in the archive; new correspondents in Bulgaria and abroad; systematized exchange with foreign information agencies; information from and about Bulgarian communities; investment in people and technological renewal. According to Section II, t. 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure no questions have been received to applicants from non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities and mass media. During the discussion the candidates answered the questions asked by the MPs Vejdi Rashidov, Maria Tsvetkova, Ivan Chenchev, Velislava Krasteva and Boryana Georgieva. On the basis of the hearing held, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote under Section VI of the Rules of Procedure the proposed applications for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, to which draft decisions are attached to this report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u8	To present the candidate, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u9	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I offer to your attention the candidacy of Kiril Alexandrov Valchev. Kiril Valchev was born on 24 May 1973 in Sofia. In 1992 he graduated with excellent success with the National High School of Ancient Languages and Cultures "Constantin Kiril Philosopher" and in 1998 he also graduated with excellent success Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski "St. He graduated from a professional course in radio management in the United States of America in 1995. In 2003 he was a Fellow at the BBC in London, UK. He has language skills in English, Russian, Latin, Old Greek and Old Bulgarian. In the period 1993 - 1995 he worked in BTA. From 1993 until now he has been the author of the weekly review of Darik Radio. He's been covering a number of events as a radio messenger. Kiril Valchev is Secretary of the Union of Bulgarian National and Electronic Media, which is a member of BTA, BNT, BNR, bTV, Nova TV and Darik Radio. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u10	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u11	As lawyer Kiril Valchev works in the field of media and intellectual property. He is the author of publications in the field of constitutional and commercial law. He's a legal consultant for BTA and Darik Radio. In 2011 he participated in the preparation of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. He has won a number of awards and awards in the field of media. Mr. Kiril Valchev's candidacy is supported by the acting Director General of BTA and the trade union organizations of the Agency. A letter was received from the BNT trade unions in support of this application. The proven professional qualities and the undisputed public authority of Kiril Valchev make him a worthy candidate for Director General of BTA. These are the reasons why the parliamentary group of GERB will support Mr. Valchev's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Mr. Simov, please give us the second application.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u13	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I present the candidacy and propose that Mr. Ivaylo Stefanov be elected as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Ivaylo Danailov was born in Sofia. He has graduated from English and Bulgarian philology at Sofia University (St. Kliment Ohridski). He has over 30 years of experience in journalism in various media in Bulgaria and abroad. Its professional development begins at the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency as translator and reporter in the Department of Foreign Information. Later on, he went to the Department of Internal Information as a political reporter. At the same time, he works as a stringer for the Associated Press and UPI. In the 1990s, Ivaylo Danailov worked in the Journal of the International Journal, where he was an investigative reporter and editor in the Departments of Business and International. Later he returned to the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency as editor-in-chief of Pressphoto. He was a responsible editor in the newspaper "Sunday Standard" and worked as an editor in the international department of the newspaper "Trud." He was an adviser to the government of Dimitar Popov, and during the Triple Coalition he was an adviser to the Prime Minister. Ivaylo Danailov is a member of the European Association of Political Consultants, as well as a member of the Club of Venice. In the years Ivaylo Danailov has gained serious authority among his colleagues. There is enough experience in working with people and in the management of various projects. He knows well the media and cooperation with them, which is of great importance to the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. His professional realization and biography illustrate impartiality in decision-making and respect for ethical rules. We are united in our view that his work as Director General of the BTA will be a guarantee of high professionalism and the achievement of openness, transparency and dialogue in the work of the Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u14	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any desire to make a statement. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We're waiting for the coworkers to take their seats. Colleagues, I'm voting first: Project! DECISION on the selection of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 10, para. 1 and 2 of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ivaylo Stefanov Danailov as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for a term of 5 years. Please, voting mode. Vote 154 MPs: 65 against 2, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. I put the second vote to the vote: Project! DECISION on the selection of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 10, para. 1 and 2 of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act HAS DECIDED He elected Kiril Alexandrov Valchev as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for a term of 5 years. Please, voting mode. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Congratulations to Mr. Valchev! Mr. Valchev, please come to the stand and take an oath. Colleagues, please stand up. [[Everyone gets up.]] Mr. Valchev, repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u15	I vow in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and to perform my duties in good faith as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency by guiding myself by the principles laid down in the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u16	Congratulations! Let's wish Mr. Valchev good luck again! [[The President Tsveta Karajancheva and Vice-President Emil Hristov congratulate the elected Director-General of BTA.]] We continue, fellow Members, with a second item on our agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. Mr. Letifov, would you like to introduce us to the Second Reading Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u17	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Veliko Zanchev "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications," on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u18	Please vote on the procedure so made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u19	They voted 121 MPs: 120, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Zanchev. Dear Mr. Letifov, please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u20	The Law on Railway Transport (prom., SG No. ...).................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the words "or if there is a change in its owner" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 8 words or changes in the owner shall be deleted. 3. In para. the 12th sentence of the second sentence is deleted; 4. A new para is being created. 13: In the event of a change of the circumstances entered in the licence, the railway carrier shall notify the Railway Administration Executive Agency within 7 days of the occurrence of the circumstances. The Railway Administration Executive Agency shall carry out a review of the changed circumstances and shall, within one month of notification, draw up a reasoned proposal to the Railway Authority under para. 1 for the issue of an amended licence. 5. So far, the Al. 13 becomes para. 14 and amended as follows: When the host applies for a new licence when the railway carrier is converted, it may continue the operation of the railway transport until the issuing of the licensing authority, provided that it holds a valid single safety certificate or safety certificate issued until 16 June 2019. 6. So far, the Al. 14 becomes para. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u21	Thank you. Statements? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law; the text of the importer for § 1; and the version proposed by the Commission for § 2. They voted 107 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 31. The proposals have been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u22	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 1 and 2: The railway undertaking shall carry out planned and exceptional checks following the issue of a licence to determine whether the railway carrier fulfils the requirements of art. 38. In the event of irregularities or infringements of art. 38 employees of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall issue prescriptions according to art. 117, para. 2, p. 14, which set a deadline for their removal. (2) Where it is established that the railway carrier does not comply or is unable to comply with the requirements of art. 38, the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall draw up a reasoned proposal to the authority referred to in art. 37, para. 1 to suspend the licence for a period of up to 6 months or to withdraw the licence. 2. So far, the Al. 1 becomes para. 3 and in it in t. 1: (a) in point (j) after the word "unregularities', the "incompletes' shall be added; (b) in point (h) (i) the words (ii) shall be inserted after the words (iii) and (iv) the words (v) shall be inserted after the words (v) and (v) the words (v) and (v) the words (v) shall be inserted after the words (v) and (v) the words (v) and (v) the words (v) shall be inserted after the words (v) and (v) the words (v) and (v) the words (v) and (v) the words (v) in point (v) of point (v) of point (v) of point (v) of point (v) of point (v) of point (v) of point (v) of point (v) of 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes a new para. 4 and in it the words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and amended as follows: . (6) Where it is established that the carrier does not meet the requirements for financial stability but proves that it has taken measures to restore its financial stability, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications or the official authorised by it shall suspend the operation of the licence and may issue a temporary licence with a period of validity of up to 6 months, provided that the railway carrier holds a valid single safety certificate or safety certificate issued until 16 June 2019. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1 the words "input' shall be replaced by "to be used in the railway network'. 2. Al. 2 is amended as follows: The railway undertaking or infrastructure managers may perform the functions of a person under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the . (7) In cases where the person under para. 1 is a railway undertaking or railway infrastructure manager, the verification under para. 5 shall be carried out at the same time as the procedure for issuing or reviewing the single safety certificate of the railway undertaking or safety certificate of the railway infrastructure manager. Compliance with vehicle maintenance requirements shall be noted in the single safety certificate of the railway undertaking or in the safety certificate of the railway infrastructure manager. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u23	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3; the text of the importer for § 4; the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 5 and § 6; the text of the importer for § 7. They voted 87 MPs: 69, none, abstention 18. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u24	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115k, para. 4 the words "the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Department" shall be replaced by the "National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport" and a sentence shall be created second: "When the final report cannot be published within 12 months, the National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport shall disclose an interim report at least every year from the date of the occurrence of the accident, which shall contain progress in the investigation and all safety issues. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall, in the event of an infringement relating to traffic safety and security of transport causing a serious safety risk, issue mandatory prescriptions and lay down deadlines and responsible authorities or persons for their implementation, and may order: 1. the application of temporary safety measures, including immediate limitation or suspension of the relevant operations or activities related to maneuvering, provision of train traffic, train management, repair or maintenance of rolling stock and others; 2. suspension from operation of railway infrastructure sites, including the infrastructure of ministries and other departments, companies or undertakings under art. 2, p. 3 in case of non-compliance with technical operation and/or traffic safety; 3. suspension of rolling stock in case of non-compliance with its technical and functional requirements; 4. implementation of safety measures in the transport of dangerous goods by rail; 5. implementation of safety measures in the maintenance and operation of railway crossings. 2. The creation of para. 4. (4) The mandatory prescriptions under para. 2, p. 14th para. 3 are subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal of the prescriptions under para. 3 does not stop their execution. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, the words of the retailer and shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u25	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 8 and § 9; the text of the importer for § 10, § 11, § 12 and § 13; the text of the importer for § 14 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; and the text of the importer for § 15. They voted 86 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 15. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u26	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16: ......... 16........................................... This law provides for measures for the implementation of art. Article 2 (4) in conjunction with Article 2 (4) Article 8 (2) and (3) Art. 13, 15 "18" and Art. 21 (1) of Regulation No 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers using rail transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u27	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 16. Vote 84 MPs: 70, none, abstention 14. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u28	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the name in principle and proposes the following version of the division: "Concluding provisions" The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 17 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 18. According to § 18 there is a proposal from the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Alexander Nenkov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 18, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In the Law on Public Enterprises (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 sentence second, a comma is finally placed and added to the public undertakings under art. 2, para. 1, t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of 2. In § 2 of the transitional and final provisions para. 4 is repealed. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. Paragraph 15 shall enter into force on 3 December 2019 on internal passenger transport services in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u29	Statements? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Public Enterprises Act was adopted in 2019 and I remind you of you and the people outside the Chamber it was one of the conditions we received for our accession to the Eurozone waiting room, a condition that was set by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The texts of the Law were all the time the subject of a very significant interest and were followed very closely by the representatives of this organization. It is strange that in the last year, year and a half, several texts of the Law-managing majority slowly began to revise. Once again we get that well-known effect from our practice. We do one thing for foreigners, we do quite another here inside our country. This is what you gentlemen of GERB and the United Patriarchs do in the Public Enterprises Act. First on several occasions, texts of the Law were postponed. Their entry into force was postponed, and then their revision began. And, of course, and in our well-known practice, you have begun to make changes as well, with the Council of Ministers proposing one, and colleagues from the ruling majority, and now in this paragraph, we see that they are making changes to these changes by proposing some of the proposed changes to drop out in order to make the mess complete and that no one can really understand what is happening. However, the truth is quite simple. We have an opinion from the Ministry of Finance submitted on this bill at first reading and this opinion does not support the proposal of the Council of Ministers. I will take the liberty of quoting a very brief part of this opinion from the Ministry of Finance: we do not support this proposal. The increased requirements for public undertakings classified as large, including with regard to the legal form of the council, disclosure of information, relate to the importance of undertakings in the sector concerned and to the country's economy as a whole. Therefore, we believe that building management capacity, achieving higher independence and increasing the professionalism of the councils is mandatory for these enterprises, whether they are part of a holding company or not. "This is one of the main pillars in the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, for the corporate management of the state-owned enterprises to which Bulgaria joined in December 2019. You see what happens now? In the law adopted in 2019, the ruling majority accepted that part of the state-owned enterprises must be restructuring in administrative structures. And now we quietly give up this commitment and we are already told, no, they will remain in the legal form in which they have existed until now. There are businesses here that are essential, just from the area of transport. There we have a large holding company - Bulgarian State Railways - which has several subsidiaries. These subsidiaries so far exist in the form of a limited liability company. By the Act on Public Enterprises adopted, these companies had to become public limited liability companies. But now, you see, we will leave them, or you will leave them, pardon, once again to be limited liability companies, so that they can probably be more easily manipulated and managed in their activities and not meet the high standards that the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has set us. In fact, here we have to say that these changes that you are now proposing to us, gentlemen of government, are virtually not in line with the philosophy of the Law adopted in 2019, which philosophy and we have supported to a large extent, because we thought it would put some order in the management of state companies, there will be transparency, they will be politically independent and they will respond to the recommendations of an authoritative international organisation such as the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development that has put us in place. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u31	Please complete the statement, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u32	With the changes you're now proposing, that's obviously not gonna happen. And I call on a colleague here to stand up and explain why this is being done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u33	Thank you. A line? Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Danchev, I'm giving you a line of speech with the agreement that I agree with you in principle. But let us remember that the recommendations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are for amendments to the Public Enterprises Act, which already existed in the Bulgarian legislation. In one period these boards were changed, which showed that in fact, you see, there is an opportunity for abuse in the so-created form of work. In the next moment, the institutions, our partners, tell us: You must change it in order to respond to good practices in the management of state property, because we are talking about enterprises with more than 50% state or municipal ownership of capital and the next moment how to actually fill those places that are on board. And here's the thing you didn't say is that the whole story has been typical for the last 10 years. By the methods of sample error we will do something, we will see how much sheer she's going to give after that, of course, we will change it. Today, with these texts, we are trying to change something that we believe has been blown. So, if we have to lock up, the managers say we made a mistake here again, and now we want to clean up part of the mess we've made. And the question is: why, since there are good practices, we have not mastered them, and we are constantly changing them to the principle of error sample, which is typical of the decision-making model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u35	Thank you. A line? There are no other lines. Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Letifov, and I will in principle agree with what you have said and will supplement you. In fact, a sample error cannot be understood by our proposed opinions on the Bill and by the proposed text by importers where exactly the error in the law adopted in 2019. The problems with the implementation of these texts had to be identified in an analysis which entrusted the law adopted in 2019 "An analysis of the Agency for Public Enterprises" to establish what was actually supposed to happen to these enterprises......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, this analysis clearly did not want to wait. In my opinion, they were in a hurry to make the proposed changes. They are in a hurry to make these changes in order to appoint the respective managers after competitions in public enterprises with more than 50% state participation and to escape this analysis, which could also detect other problems of the management of state enterprises. So you should not be surprised why the method of sampling and error is being worked. Indeed, because the government's desire is not for public undertakings to work clearly, transparently and openly in the interests of society, but obviously in the interests of certain circles of ministries which are the principal of these enterprises. That's my conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u37	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote: the version proposed by the Commission for the section "Concluding provisions'; the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 17 by importer; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 18, which becomes 17; and the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 18 with a text on the Commission Report. Vote 97 MPs: 69, against 25, abstention 3. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE DIMENSION OF CIFRIC CONTENT AND CHIEF SERVICES AND FOR THE SALE OF GOODS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism has the floor for the presentation of the report, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u38	Colleagues, for admission to the hall, guests when discussing this bill, I propose: Yanka Topalova, Deputy Minister of Economy, Silvana Lyubenova, Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy and Emil Aleksiev, Head of the Department of Consumer Politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u39	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite in the admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u40	♪ I can't believe under a bill for the provision of digital content and digital services and for the sale of goods, No 002-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 20 January 2021 examined and discussed the Draft Law on the provision of digital content and services and the sale of goods, No 002-01-76. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy Jana Topalova Deputy Minister, Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy and Emil Alexiev Head of the Department of Consumer Policy and Dimitar Margaritov Chairman of the Commission for Consumer Protection. The bill was presented by Mrs Topalova. The reason for the adoption of this bill is the need to transpose the provisions of Directive (EU) 2019/770 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of contracts for the provision of digital content and digital services and of Directive (EU) 2019/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of sales of goods. The two directives adopt the principle of maximum harmonisation under which Member States cannot maintain or introduce in their national legislation provisions other than those laid down in the Directives, unless otherwise provided for. The overall objective of the project is to improve the legislative framework with a view to achieving a high level of consumer protection and improving the opportunities for commercial activity of enterprises providing digital content and digital services and selling goods. According to the importer, the specific objectives of the proposed bill are: - Establishment of a legal framework for consumer protection in the provision of digital content and digital services and updating and harmonisation of the legal framework for the sale of goods; - Overcoming differences in national contract law for the provision of digital content and digital services and for the sale of goods. These differences are an obstacle for businesses to operate in other countries of the European Union; - Increase consumer confidence in cross-border provision of digital content and digital services and in the sale of goods online. The adoption of uniform, clear and harmonised rules for the provision of digital content and digital services and for the sale of goods within the European Union is expected to increase consumer confidence in the cross-border provision of digital content and digital services and in the sale of goods online and thus increase the percentage of Bulgarian consumers who shop online from other Member States of the European Union. The development of sustainable competition in favour of consumers will be supported. The adoption of the Project will not create an additional administrative burden for businesses. On the contrary, it will reduce the administrative burden on businesses when providing digital content and digital services and when selling goods to consumers. The State authorities concerned with this bill are the Ministry of Economy and the Consumer Protection Commission, which will exercise control over compliance with this law and supervision of the activities of traders providing digital content and digital services and offering contracts for the sale of goods. The adoption of the Digital Content and Digital Services Act and the sale of goods propose that the following measures be adopted: - Determination of a 30-day period for the replacement or repair of the goods in respect of goods other than goods containing digital elements. - Determination of the terms and conditions for the return of the goods and the refund of the amounts paid by the consumer when the contract is broken. - Introduction of a requirement for mandatory provision of the information contained in the commercial guarantee in Bulgarian language. - Suspension or interruption of the period of legal guarantee for the time of repair or replacement of the goods which do not comply with the requirements. - Consumer protection in the provision of goods and services containing digital elements. - Settlement of the right to a regression claim against third parties. All this calls for the firm conclusion that the identified problems in the existing legal framework for the provision of digital content and for the sale of goods cannot be overcome by maintaining this legislation and the adoption of this new bill is necessary. Relevant changes to the Consumer Protection Act are proposed. According to the importer, the bill will have no direct or indirect impact on the state budget. In the assessment of the impact of the proposed Directives, the European Commission points out that the one-off costs of digital content and digital service providers and on-line selling goods to bring their activity into line with the new requirements will be EUR 6800, which, however, are at times lower than the costs of adapting to the national legislation of each individual Member State of the European Union. For comparison, the estimated costs incurred by undertakings to adapt their contracts to the legislation of only one Member State shall be estimated at around EUR 9000. No such costs are expected for businesses selling goods online on the territory of the country. The above costs of digital content and digital services undertakings and online sales companies are linked to the fulfilment of imperative requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/770 and Directive (EU) 2019/771 and are not subject to State discretion. The economic impact on small and medium-sized enterprises since the introduction of the two directives should be limited. No precise data can be provided on the extent to which the 1119 small and medium-sized enterprises operating on 31 December 2019 for the implementation of public electronic communications would be affected by the rules for providing digital content and digital services and how this law would affect their access to financing and investment. A preliminary impact assessment, as well as those required under Article, has been applied to the Bill. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the subsequent discussion, the People's Representative Adlen Shevked expressed the opinion that the draft contained many ambiguities, probably due to a literal translation from the texts of the directives; it is unclear the content of the many times used in the draft concept of a reasonable period, which there is no regulation in the Bulgarian legislation; undue increase in the powers of the Commission for Consumer Protection. The creation of a working group is proposed to revise the vague texts. People's representative Dimitar Danchev raised the question of the existence of colosis within the scope of the control activities of the Communications Regulation Commission and that of the Commission for Consumer Protection. He proposed to request opinions on the bill from NGOs and the Communications Regulation Commission. People's representative Rumen Gechev confirmed the support for the directives and the bill, but also expressed considerations regarding the translation of certain economic categories used in the bill. Dimitar Margaritov and Emil Alexiev answered the questions asked. They were adamant that the overlap of the control activity of the Communications Regulation Commission and the Consumer Protection Commission will not, as the Consumer Protection Commission will only control the conformity of digital content. They also denied increasing the powers of the Commission for Consumer Protection by this law, respectively, with the two material directives. In addition, for the first time, the issue of guarantee and the claim of goods and services subject to the bill is resolved. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law for the provision of digital content and services and for the sale of goods, No 002-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The Committee on Legal Affairs report will introduce us to Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Legal Affairs on a Draft Law on the provision of digital content and digital services and on the sale of goods, No 002-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. At its meeting held on 13 January 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the provision of digital content and services and on the sale of goods, No 002-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy Mr. Emil Aleksiev. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Alexiev, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/770 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of contracts for the provision of digital content and digital services and of Directive (EU) 2019/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of contracts for the sale of goods. He noted that the adoption of the Law would achieve a high level of protection of consumer rights by establishing rules for the provision of digital content and digital services and by upgrading the legislation on the sale of goods, so that it would also cover the sale of goods containing digital elements. Taking into account the development of the digital market, the draft law lays down contractual conditions for the provision of digital content and digital services and for the sale of goods by specifying in detail the requirements for the compliance of goods, digital content or digital services, the liability of traders in the absence of compliance with the agreed, commercial guarantee, the burden of proof, the conditions and arrangements for the exercise of the means of protection and the possibility of breaking the contract by the consumer. The Bill introduces a two-year warranty for the provision of digital content, digital service or commodity, an obligation to inform users of all available updates, requirements for compliance of the digital environment, rules for the collection of personal data to consumers and protection of personal data. In accordance with Directive (EU) 2019/71, a new regulation of the contracts for sales of goods is established which complements the consumer protection law and which covers, in addition to the sale of goods and the digital content itself. The proposed rules shall specify the requirements for the conformity of goods, the responsibility of the seller for the failure to comply with the contract or for non-compliance with what was agreed, the means of legal protection of consumers, the possibility of reducing the price or breaking the contract and the commercial guarantee of the goods. The bill explicitly complements the responsibility of traders of goods and provides that they are also responsible for the digital content and digital service for the period of the consumer guarantee. It provides for mechanisms for the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes by alternative dispute resolution bodies, with the aim of implementing the Law effectively, administrative criminal provisions. In response to the questions raised by the National Representative Krum Zarkov, Mr. Alexiev pointed out that the terminology used in the Additional Provisions of the Law on Consumer Protection differs from those used in the directives and the consumer protection provided for by the Law complements the one in force as it is done in other special laws. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 20 votes for the European Parliament, without votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft for the provision of digital content and services and for the sale of goods, No 002-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u43	I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill for the provision of digital content and digital services and for the sale of goods, No 002-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 84 MPs: 81 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PARTICULAR SECURITY ACTION. The representatives of the People's Representative Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission's first vote report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the Chamber to be admitted: Senior Commissioner Todor Grebenarov, Deputy Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police, Commissioner Veselin Mladenov, Head of the Security Police Department at the Directorate-General of the National Police and Chief Inspector Borislav Botev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u45	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Please provide the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u46	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Private Security Activity Act No 154-01-1, submitted by Plamen Dulchev Nunev and a group of MPs on 14 January 2021. At its regular meeting on 20 January 2021, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Security, No 154-01-1, submitted by Plamen Dulchev Nunev and a group of MPs on 14 January 2021. The meeting was attended by Senior Commissioner Todor Grebenarov, Deputy Director of the Directorate General of National Police and Commissioner Veselin Mladenov, Head of the Security Police Department, Head of the Directorate General of the National Police and Chief Inspector Borislav Botev, Head of the Sector. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Manoil Manev. The proposed changes to the Private Security Act aim to overcome the practical problems of its implementation. It is proposed that private security activities should be removed from the activities of security of real estate sites and security of agricultural property. The practice shows that their self-existence is not necessary, which is why the bill proposes to cancel and to carry out activities within the other types of security activities under art. 5, para. 1 of the Law. When preparing the proposal, it is noted that as a kind of security activity, there is the protection of the property of natural or legal persons, which is an activity of its physical protection against infringements of law, as well as of their prevention and crossing, and the counteraction of an unlawful offence against a natural person at the site, as well as the alert-security activity which is an activity of protection against criminal offences of the property of natural or legal persons located in secure facilities where, through the installation, maintenance and use of alert and security alert systems, surveillance of the premises is carried out and responds to the received signals by mobile security patrols. The change offered in art. 36 of the ICC, allows the heads of security to determine the number of contractors in any case when transporting valuable consignments or cargo. In this way, greater operational freedom will be achieved when assessing the circumstances which, in the current legal framework, are to some extent limited. Section X is created in Chapter 2. The provisions that are set up will allow for the reassignment of activities and so traders will be able to use subcontractors in carrying out their activities. The dynamics of certain security activities requires the recruitment of a large number of employees to implement the security contracts. The availability of free labour resources with the statutory education is very limited, therefore the requirements for the head and performers of private security activities are changed. It is legally possible to transfer the instruction that is legally designated for all types of security activity to the Ordinance under art. 5, para. 4 of the ICE, and it will be differentiated depending on the type of security activity. The implementation of daily briefing by the management of all physical security sites is virtually impossible in carrying out shifts at the same time. The bill provides for the introduction of a minimum and maximum amount of the fine in the event of an infringement by a natural person registered as a sole trader, a member of a managing body of a commercial company or by a legal person, or another person authorised to manage it and representing who has concluded a contract with a person of his security staff without meeting the requirements of art. 50, para. 3 and 4 of the Law. There is currently a financial penalty of 1000 BGN. in all cases which does not allow the gravity of the infringement to be differentiated. Senior Commissioner Grebenarov and Mr. Alexander Mitev expressed support for the bill under consideration. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Tsipov and Manoil Manev. Mr. Ivanov expressed his dissent mainly with two of the proposals made in the Draft Law. The inclusion of a sub-contractor under a security contract, which will be disadvantageous for small companies, and the lifting of the requirement for rehabilitation when obtaining a license to carry out private security activities. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 10 votes for.... 7 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u47	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ahmedov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Act in force on private security activities has been in force since March 2018 and regulates the terms and conditions for private security activities, administrative regulation and administrative control. It seems that this law, as well as the previous Private Security Act, has been repaired more than 10 times in the 13 years of its action during which it acted and will be subject to a correction through this and the next parliament. Today, we are once again witnessing the vicious practice of legislation to be tabled on the agenda of the National Assembly by a group of MPs, not by the Council of Ministers, as is appropriate. This raises doubts in all of us that the changes to the first vote are currently aimed at pleasing certain individuals or companies. We of the DPS believe that this is another lobbying law of GERB. I will ask all the importers of the Bill to declare whether they have a conflict of interest. Private security activities occupy a large part of the public service market. This is a socially significant activity that needs adequate and clear regulations. The importers of the project argue that the project is being prepared, pointing out as an objective in implementing it to overcome the practical problems. A substantial change is provided for in Section X "Supporting' an opportunity to extrapolate activities and use subcontractors in the security activity. Such an opportunity was missing in the current bill. We are strongly opposed to allowing sub-executions in security activities. This is a bad practice, which is nested in Bulgaria thanks to the management of GERB in a number of sectors, and will lead to the destruction of small companies with such activity. However, the proposed texts with regard to rehabilitation also arise and, under the Amendment Project, the right to obtain a licence will also have the persons who have been rehabilitated in accordance with the Penal Code, who currently do not have that right. This proposal is perplexing and we believe that it is unacceptable for a security activity to be carried out by convicted persons. The proposed amendments, which reduce the requirements regarding the educational degree of private security contractors, also raise doubts and concern. This change cannot be justified by the possibility of a greater choice of personal labour resources. Under these two amendments, convicted persons will indeed receive, albeit rehabilitated, and under-educated persons will be appointed as performers of private security. This will in practice lead to a decrease in the level of security activity and does not correspond to the purpose of the importers of the proposed bill. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u49	- What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is impressive that, both from the beginning and at the end of the term of office of this National Assembly, attempts are made to pass the same laws proposed by MPs. I mean the Private Security Act. At the beginning of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, we started precisely with this law with a bunch of controversial amendments that ended at the Constitutional Court. To my great surprise, not only mine, but also all colleagues, at the end of this National Assembly's term, the same law enters again, again with a bunch of controversial amendments. What do I mean? Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great ambiguity why they are finally trying to settle a pile of private interests with a single law tabled by fellow Members of the National Assembly who, to put it mildly, are controversial. What do I mean? First of all, to allow private security companies to use subcontractors in the activities of private security companies. You know that for the most part, these security companies implement contracts to the state. They contract with different ministries, guard different state assets. What does that mean? First of all, there is concern that one concentration will be made and there are doubts about very serious lobbying in the direction of certain companies so that they can win certain public procurements and crush competition ahead of them, that is to say subjugate it. These concerns are the result of conversations with various representatives of this industry. Smaller companies who are worried will be pressured to give up sites, to enter subcontractors at lower prices. This is one. Secondly, all these movements in the Private Security Act on the eve of elections also sound disturbing. In addition to stepping up different structures in the industry to help one or another political force, it could also be considered as a serious incentive to change this law. I think it is at least wrong at this last moment of the National Assembly's work to deal with texts that could be settled over the years, discussed. As said by colleague Ahmedov, to be imported through the Council of Ministers, to pass the full procedure of public discussion, and not here to look at them literally within a week, without having a clear idea of what is the opinion of all of the industry of all of them, and of society, of all non-governmental organizations and so on. There is confusion and other changes that are being proposed in this law. For example, why should they go out for me is not enough argument, the activities for the protection of sites, real estate, the security of agricultural property? It is insufficiently justified what is meant. This is one of the main activities that many of the companies carry out summer time because agricultural production is threatened by theft and malicious damage by other third parties. But the cherry of the cake in this whole bill is a proposal of colleagues from GERB to be able to be managers of companies engaged in private security activities, convicted persons, despite being rehabilitated. Excuse me, but all over the penal code palette, there's a bunch of convictions, starting rapes, robberies, murders, racketeering, drug dealing. All these faces, if at some point they're rehabilitated, they'll be happy to go into the security business. What are we doing, guys? On the eve of the election you allow the criminal contingent to develop private security activities! What brings us to this? These people will sit aside during the elections, or quietly and quietly, undergoing state repression, in some way, will they enter and infiltrate our society?! I doubt it myself. It was a great surprise to me that there was a positive opinion from the Ministry of Interior in this direction. It was an extremely huge surprise, although they have always sat in a precise and clear position that from such activities should sit aside individuals who have contact with the criminal contingent. It's not exactly characterized. Yes, there were disputes in the Commission because he was in a car accident and it was not justified for him to be deprived of the right by being rehabilitated, to pursue private security activities. Yeah, but under the same denominator, all the other ones I listed just now. That's, to put it mildly, outrageous. I demand that this bill today be rejected by everyone in this House because it is not his place today or to see such scandalous amendments. Even if there is something normal in it, which is necessary because of such things this bill is practically unfit and gives the impression in the Bulgarian society that the Bulgarian Parliament in its last days deals with heavy lobbying bills. I do not know what this change means to release convicted persons, albeit rehabilitated? That in the '90s, there were a bunch of faces that were marked by the underground that were involved in racketeering, beatings, and so on. That means that by the time they've expired their sentences, I don't want them here to be officially in the security business. It is no secret to anyone that these individuals have companies through one or another second person. Now let us say to them: ladies and gentlemen, please come in, the door is open and we allow you, who were the persons of the transition, to have an officially legal, legal security business, what you are dealing with, not to sit in the shadows of someone else, you to do. Therefore, colleagues, I think it is right and normal today in this Chamber that everyone, including the importers, should vote against this bill and its fate to end here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. The next statement is from Mr. Manev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First, to fulfill the request of my colleague here to state the conflict of interest: I do not have a conflict of interest. I've never had a private security firm, and I've never dealt with a security business in over 20 years! Let's start from here. Dear colleagues, in those who have developed colleagues before me, there are two or three false things, but in the spirit of understanding I want to talk about this bill without burdening it with emotions. First, in a few days, we'll pass a bill. That's not true! Nearly a year-and-a-half within the framework of the Act, which we adopted and acted, more than 15 meetings with the whole industry in all sectors of the prosecution, police, lawmakers, MPs, associations of security companies, and every single word, and every text in this bill that we offer to you, are the result of those over 15 meetings and events in connection with the clarification of what is interfering with the business. Second, why do we have to make changes to the Law? Because this law does two things: it has to regulate a business and on top of that, this business is extremely dynamic. That is, something is changing in the business environment in Bulgaria, more businesses are starting to exist, more security is being sought. Certain sectors and certain businesses are not working, their sites need to be guarded because they don't work and so on and so forth. It is a dynamic environment related to the functions of the Private Security Activity Act to regulate this business and this industry, requires a dynamic response. Why was it forbidden for people to work without secondary education? Because then there was labor, because that was the way it had to be at the time. Now there are agricultural sites, there are construction sites that are currently out of service, and they have to be guarded by guards. And that's where we're supposed to require an educational rate? I would like to draw attention to the colleague from the DPS, who spoke here a moment ago. Let him try to explain about the educational value of his constituents, because the biggest problem of the companies, as a result of these meetings we have had so long, in fact in the regions where colleagues claim to know very well and know very well what their problems are, there is the biggest problem with educational prices. There are people who want to work in some regions where they do not have secondary education and cannot be employed. And that's there. I am surprised that this is what my colleague from the DPS commented on. Never mind, let's comment on the bill itself. As far as the second debate point on the Small Company Bill is concerned. Colleagues, please, I don't know who you've been talking to, I don't know which companies you've met, but do you actually understand what you're saying? First, in the whole business in Bulgaria it is possible to hire other companies, to make contracts with other companies to carry out certain things under one contract. In this case, we're talking about this, I'm explaining it to people who aren't part of the matter: a firm takes to build an object and has to guard it with S.O.T. and with living guards. This happens in a small settlement where the SOT company is one, the company that has a living security is another, and both companies cannot conclude contracts to work together on the site. The other important thing is how we kill small businesses by allowing large companies to enter into a contract in regions where they have no representation, one of these small companies to work with them. Is this the murder of business? Okay, explain this to the people from the companies that were at all these meetings, I can give you lists, and who actually say, hey, if you don't allow us to be able to work with the people in the regions... There are cities where there is only one security company, and all the other big companies that have sites use it to work with them. And it doesn't happen with contracts officially, lightly, clearly, but to do it in some strange ways that no one can explain. This is what we want to have the opportunity to make contracts and this to become quite legal. Finally, I'm leaving time to talk about the subject of rehabilitation. I said, unfortunately, my colleague is speculating slightly about what we have said to the Commission. We're not going to draw any protocols, I'm going to make it official from this tribune to make it clear to everyone that this is a debatable issue. First of all, not a single security guard is allowed to do so even if it is only a criminal registration. How just it is, how legal it is, it doesn't matter that's what the Law says and that's how it's done. No one has the right to conduct security activities on the field if they even have criminal registration. He hasn't been tried, he hasn't filed a case. We won't, we don't talk at all! Whether the owners of the capital of a company can be owners of capital of a company that deals with private security activity after being rehabilitated is a really debatable issue. We are ready here, I said it, I say it again and I will continue to say it, to talk to colleagues. We've offered to navigate in two ways. One option is to get the easiest one. We say: there is no such thing, the owner of the capital was in a car accident, or something happened, the person who sentenced him, past his rehabilitation, however cannot be the owner of this company. It will be with hidden faces, as says colleague Ivanov. How right it is, how wrong it is is not important. The other option is to separate those crimes, crimes he was tried for. But these two options or three, if you want, let's do them in the debate. To include the people with legal knowledge, education and debunk them. We're ready to withdraw this point anytime. The question is: is it fair and is it fair? There are crimes of recklessness, but so far, the law in force applies to them as well. If you want to debunk it, make it a proposal between first and second readings. Shall we separate them, make them into different texts by which they are judged? If you want, we'll reject it. The point is, we're making a law in force that's important. Colleagues, when there are crises, whether they are social, economic, pandemic or others, the security industry, the security business is the one who is actually on the field. Every party, every office, every home is guarded by these people. And when they have problems, when the environment changes, we have to react. This is our appeal with this bill. There's nothing political about it. The bill has it, it's working. One and a half years in all formats, I tell you again, in all cities, starting with Plovdiv, and Lovech, where we have not met one in one with the people who work. That's the whole story. If one of you makes a line to me about something I've missed, I'm ready to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u53	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Are there any lines on the speech of the National Representative Manev? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Manev, let me disagree with you. You have clearly addressed the problem of footage, but I must tell you that the problem of footage will not be solved through low-educated people. I don't understand how you don't get the light that by lowering the criteria for education, you practically say, "Whoever doesn't study will calmly fall into the ranks of the guards." And my question to you is this: who needs low-educated people? You have also affected the subject with unemployment that there are regions where only one security firm is an employer. Well, I'll ask you this, then: what is the pay of these people? How can a person with a higher education go or with two educational backgrounds become a security guard at a certain firm? And since it's time for Jorro Millionaire George Enev, who had robbed the Incaso to go out, maybe when he gets out, he'll be a proud owner of a company?! [[Heckling]] Perhaps you'd recommend him somewhere, I don't know?! On the other hand, we have touched on the subject of rehabilitation. Which rehabilitation is the full or incomplete rehabilitation, after all? Full by law or full by law, incomplete by law or incomplete judicial rehabilitation? Who will be company managers? I understand that the bill is important to you, but in practice it is lobbying in action and perhaps we should first adopt a law on lobbying so that legislation can go easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u55	Thank you, Lord Baichev. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Manev, unlike you, I declare from the stands of the National Assembly that I have interests in this business. As a journalist, private security companies have brought me the most cases in my line of work. That's why I know their work very well. I do not agree in your speech with the following that, with the amendment authorising people who have had criminal convictions or, rather, criminal sentences, have the right to hold capital. I think with this we open even more the door to the muttration of the security activity. I call it straight. Why? In my recent journalistic work, I can give you the following nicknames of people involved in security activities in the Lovech region: Kunfuto, Swan, Blue, Turthea, Mecca. Some of them have several sentences of a criminal nature. I am therefore afraid that the constitution of these people, as part of the force structures of society, is strengthened by this law that I had the desire and read several times, especially now, on the eve of elections. I think that the authorisation of both subcontractors and the expansion of private security activities can lead private security guards to be entrusted with important functions such as election security, as well as vaccination security. Protection without borders from under-educated persons cannot be done either. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u57	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Third line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Manev, about the subjugation of my deep dissent. Negotiate Mr. Nedyalkov is witnessing how we filed an alert to the prosecutor's office on the case when there was an illegal sub-contraction in ammunition warehouses. If you knew what a miracle it was! What a miracle! We alerted the D.A. precisely for this, and this is an indication of what happens when a firm does not have the responsibility, but transfers it to third parties. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u59	That's what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u60	But now you're gonna legitimize it, Mr. Manev, like this. [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] On the contrary, you'll legitimize it! You'll legitimize it! And now he'll have total irresponsibility. And don't say that when a firm had physical security and the other one had S.E.L.D., it was a sub-compliment. This is either a joint operation contract or a TPA contract and is participating in the form of a consortium and can participate as they please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u61	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u62	No, you can't! They're not allowed to participate anywhere...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u63	Please don't engage in dialogue! Then you'll get the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u64	Absolutely! Make a note. Because to form the Law for joint participation in an auction there are dozens of them outside the sub-contraction. It's a exchange of responsibility. One thing in hand is the discontent of the companies we've talked to. And secondly, I am surprised that at all the subject of persons who have been convicted, although rehabilitated, is at all discussed here and at all that someone is trying to defend this thesis. This thing should not be subject to any discussion. I'm automatically rejecting it! This is contrary to any solid logic, understand it! It's like letting the wolf in the fold. As my colleague said to Jorro Millionaire, let's give him incasso and bank security immediately. Do you understand the nonsense? Understand that, you too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Manev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u66	I'm gonna make this quick, 'cause that's a lot of questions. About lobbying. Lobbyism is when you lobby for one, for two, for two companies, three people, five people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u67	As usual, some do!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u68	Like a lot of left-wing people do here, but that's another topic. We're not going into this debate like this. Lobism?! When it comes to a whole sector, when all the business associations are being talked to publicly, I say again, in the presence of prosecutors, the police, everything is being discussed publicly, talking about lobbying is ridiculous, populistic and pointless. Second, to a colleague who talked here that he had knowledge because he was being sued. I don't know why you're being sued, I don't know who's suing you, and I don't care. First of all, I have two quick comments. Who created those with nicknames? Remember? Something's starting to get us all amnesia in this world! Who created those with nicknames that I can't remember in 1989, 1990, 1991? I wonder if it was a party, if it was a briefcase and so on?! Second of all, who's talking? How can you stand up here and say they're in the security business, and now you want to put them in the security business? Are they in business, or are they out of business? Because from this tribune I defended and the thesis to remove them, to remove the security units, to clean up, to forbid them from participating in any activities of the security business people with convictions. How can you turn around and say these things to me when I, from this stand against your representatives, have defended him? Today we are only talking about one thing: that there is a common text that says all. And there are crimes of negligence, there are convicted people for things that have nothing to do with the criminal contingent, and there must be a solution. That's what I'm talking about. Last of my colleague Ivanov. Colleague, I have one request: let's not dig it out of the stands, but if you want from the stands, if you want to go to the Commission, if you want in a private conversation, if you want in any media, point out these companies you've spoken to and they've told you that the subservience is murder, it doesn't work, and so on. I would be very interested to hear them, and to hear them from the people in their industry, because I, again, say that this decision is to be able to. To clarify: everything that you have listed, the DPA, joint participation, association is prohibited at the moment, and we, with this bill, are trying to resolve it. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Only we got back on the wave to make policies. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let's do something so people can work. Nothing more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u69	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is sad that on the eve of the elections one such bill, i.e. change, is being seen. It's very sad and I'll tell you where sadness comes from. There are two main points that, apart from importers, everyone rejected. The first sub-contractor. Nothing prevents different companies with different activities from entering into separate contracts. The creation of subcontractors leads to a gradual monopoly of certain sectors in one direction or another. What do you mean, a sub-contractor? In order to be able to give the correct wording, it means the following: as with large infrastructure sites a company wins and hires subcontractors. The result is: the highways sink, the subway rises. That's what I'm done with. A second question about rehabilitation. Aren't you ashamed, fellow Members, to submit such a text?! I don't want to use the names of the '90s or who created them or what.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u71	Yes, you do!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u72	Because there are so many of you. Can you put the order in place?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u73	Please don't call from the spot! You're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u74	Because one of them is in charge of you. [[Noise and lines.]] So, what do you suggest? Rehabilitation?! They already told you about Joro the Incasator. Well, let me give you a more sinister example. By what you're proposing with this rehabilitation, please submit a change to the Education Act with which those convicted of pedophilia and rehabilitated have the opportunity to be principals of kindergartens. The result will be the same. [[Heckling]] Those who were strong insures were breaking hands, heads, asking for a fee of peace, calm and so on, and now some of them are nominal owners. Now you want to create the opportunity to be formal. And I'm ending with my infinite amazement. I'm looking for a more delicate word for the opinion of the Ministry of Interior: this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u75	Thank you, Mr. Malinov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am convinced that in the coming last weeks of this National Assembly attempts will be made to introduce through a group of MPs laws protecting all sorts of interests something that in four years has failed to be spent, now in haste, an effort will be made to spend it in chaos. Call it lobbying, call it private interest, whatever you want to call it. The bill we are currently looking at is one of the examples. Be assured that there will be more of them when you see them from the stands defending them, remember that I warned you. We will closely monitor this thing, because ultimately the legislative activity that needs to be carried out is not in the interest of the people's representative, but should be in the public interest. And here comes a single question, which we have never been able to get an answer to: why today, why at the end of this National Assembly, why, through a group of MPs, are these changes being made to the Security Act? What's the reason behind this thing? Wouldn't that have been avoided, which Mr. Manev said was controversial, that it is subject to debate, that it should be discussed between first and second readings. If this bill were to be tabled in the way it should be tabled through the Council of Ministers, through public consultation, by making public opinions, not by talking here and there with someone, but by the way that a public discussion of the Law is being made with regard to the opinion of everyone, perhaps a large part of the questions we are now asking ourselves would have found their solution. Perhaps the Bill has rational things, but they somehow get lost in what you offer to overprotect security activity, one winner, another will perform the work. Doesn't it seem to you that maybe this means: the cashier wins, then assigns someone else to do the work, and accordingly the public resource is distributed between the contractor, the cashier and the one who has assigned him to carry out the security work, for example, I say this thing, or opening the door for rehabilitated without knowing who or what it is. This is where you said we'd discuss it. This is not the time to talk about it. This should have been discussed before this bill was tabled. But clearly, rushing into the last weeks of the National Assembly, with which I started my speech, you are trying to spend what somehow you have not been able to spend until now. Again, I don't know if it's in public, but it's probably in private interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Security, No 154-01-1, submitted by Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs on 14 January 2021. They voted 104 MPs: 77, against 25, abstention 2. The bill has been passed. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TERRITORY TERRITORY LOCATION. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Law on the Construction of the Area is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Construction of the Area. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u79	Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of the bill, as well as paragraphs 1 to 6 by importer. 90 MPs voted: 73, none, abstention 17. The name of the bill and paragraphs 1 to 6 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u80	Under § 7 there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... Article 3 is Art. 5c. (1) The administrative authority to which an application for the issue of an individual administrative act has been submitted within the meaning of art. 214 only once may require the removal of irregularities or the submission of additional documents notified in writing by the authority and made available to it by the applicant A 14-day period for the removal of irregularities or for the submission of additional documents. (2) The time limit for the decision of the administrative authority shall start from the date of removal of irregularities or the submission of additional documents. When the irregularities or incompletes of para. 1 have not been removed within a time limit, the administrative authority shall terminate the proceedings. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. Proposal by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the 1. In para. 1 words when it is located on the line of construction shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 the words of the cornice, respectively on the arrow, or at the highest point of the fence walls, shall be replaced by the height of the building determined under the conditions of para. 1.................................................................................. 3. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. (4) The provisions of para. 3 do not apply in the villa zones, in the low-rise areas and in the zone "A" and zone "B" according to the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. (5) In the application of para. 3 cannot change the way and nature of the construction and the rules and regulations for the establishment area concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u81	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I appeal to you to vote separately paragraphs 7, 8 and now the forthcoming § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u83	Each individual or § 7 and § 8 together?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u84	Let's vote them separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u85	Everyone, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u86	According to § 9 what Mr. Veselinov read, he may not speak at all in the hall. These are some texts adopted 16 years ago in the National Assembly at the time of the creation of the ZUT or its first beginnings on urban planning. To be understood, I will give the example: we all see three-storey buildings that eventually turn out to be five-storey buildings. One way or another, we are trying to eliminate them precisely for these architectural misunderstandings, but for other creative views, or explained more elusively, the Law of Construction on the territory determines the height of the building, not the flooring. The LTSU, which was repealed by Law, and the PSDTSU, was the implementation of this Law 2001, arranged the flooring. Currently the Bulgarian legislation and the ZUT with all its already 107 amendments in one way or another have established a certain practice of construction. The idea that we are offered is to limit this between the visual perception of the building and what is allowed under Law, that is to say, the rights of the owners to perform what is envisaged under the existing urban planning. This, on the one hand. On the other hand, we need to make it clear that 70% of the municipalities, whether in the middle or small, are primarily building the so-called 10 meters. By adopting the amendments to the new two paragraphs 4 and 5, which govern the rights of buildings over 15 metres and not to 10, we will actually limit and take away the possibility of all territories, and they are not at all, according to the existing planning and general planning plans of all these municipalities, owners, contracting entities, entrepreneurs, all of this construction industry, to implement the urban planning. That is, on the one hand, we have an opportunity and we establish rights, on the other hand, we take them precisely through this so controversial art. 24, para. 3, which over the years has proven to function. So I would ask you not to support the text, to remain the provisions as they are at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, this is perhaps one of the most controversial texts in this law, in the sense that we have had a long debate on it. However, I can guarantee that this debate was constructive. In the Commission, we listened to representatives of all branch organizations and all organizations that have cashiership to the subject. Yes, we create restrictions on construction, mostly we create restrictions on the creation of higher-story buildings in low-rise areas and in the areas of the Black Sea coast. That was the balance. Mr. Nenkov's initial proposal envisaged at all the deletion of para. 3 in this article, which allows the height of the building to be interpreted differently then, when we have a pull back into the field, let me just say it. In this case, it was believed that, at the expense of this retreat and the space that is being released for it, heights could be lifted. So large parts of Sofia mostly, which are designed for low building, as well as the Black Sea coast, ended up being built with four and five-storey buildings when they need to be two-storey, harshly put. This irritates people even when there is no excess of the Kinth of construction or some overpopulation.. greater intensity of loading on the territory, but more dangerous is that it creates a change in the character of the building. This area, once built with four-gauge buildings, becomes another in character. The proposal that you will consider and, I hope, you will support because I call on you to support it was proposed in practice as a compromise by the construction developers themselves who said: "Yes, we understand that there is a public problem, that there are cases and that society is intolerant of the designated types of construction. "
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate on the three paragraphs. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote § 7 in the version of the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 94, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 7 has been accepted. I'm voting §8 by importer. 100 MPs voted: 82, against 1, abstention 17. Paragraph 8 has been accepted. I shall put to the vote the new § 9 as amended by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: for 76, against 3, abstention 18. Paragraph 9 has been accepted. Mr. Veselinov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u90	Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 8b. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2 words are provided in the underground, in the semi-underground and in the first floor. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 para. 3 is amended as . (3) Changing the purpose of a building or part of a building subject to education, science, health or culture may be carried out under the terms and conditions of this law only after the written consent of the minister concerned. This row also applies to the change in the purpose of sports facilities and facilities or parts thereof owned by the State or municipalities. The consent shall be made available to the Chief Architect or to the competent authority under art. 148, para. 3. Within 7 days of receipt of the written application, the Chief Architect or the competent authority under art. 148, para. 3 shall send it by service to the Minister concerned, who shall, within 14 days, be obliged to give written consent or to issue a refusal. The refusal is motivated. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 13, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 75, para. 2. The creation of para. 4. (4) Underground parking in buildings located in neighbouring regulated land properties may be made through common access on the basis of a written contract with a notary certification of signatures to establish a right of passage. A contract shall also be concluded where the property, respectively the right to construction, is owned by the same persons. The contract shall be subject to entry in accordance with art. 192, para. 7. The approved investment project and the contract are grounds for issuing a construction permit.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u91	Statements on these three paragraphs? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to make an editorial amendment in § 12 on the Report in art. 43, para. 4 The meaning of the text is preserved, but for more precisely we have made a slight correction. Please let me read it if you give me a chance. Article 43, para. 4. . (4) Underground parking in buildings located in neighbouring regulated properties may be carried out by common access, on the basis of a contract in a notary form concluded between the different owners and/or holders of the right to construction on neighbouring regulated properties. The entrances and exits, maneuvering sites and others serving as general use are common parts of the owners (owners) of the adjacent underground parking garages they serve and are determined by the investment projects. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u93	That's not editorial.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u94	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u95	Thank you. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of a new § 10 as amended by the Commission and § 9 which shall become § 11 as amended by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 76 against 16, abstention 4. Paragraphs 10 and 11 have been adopted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 43, para. 4 in § 14, proposed by Mr. Nenkov. They voted 102 MPs: 84, against 4, abstention 14. Editorial accepted. I shall put to the vote § 12, in the version of the Commission, which has just been adopted. Vote 94 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 14. Paragraph 12 with the previously proposed version has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u96	Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 9b. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1 the words "septic pits' shall be replaced by "water-tight pits'. Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 9c. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47, para. 2 the word "septic" shall be replaced by "water-striped graves." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 15. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 56a: Art. 56a. (1) Parts of streets, sidewalks, squares, landscaped areas for general public use and other properties and sites of public municipal property may be used to carry out commercial and/or other outdoor activities by means of facilities and elements of open stands, apparatus, grills, refrigerated display windows, sanders, carts and the like, on the basis of an authorisation issued by the mayor of the municipality. (2) The conditions and procedure for issuing the authorisation under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 56, para. 2 or under art. 13a. (3) For carrying out activities under para. 1 without authorisation or in violation of the authorisation granted shall impose fines or property penalties as defined by the ordinance under art. 56, para. 2 or under art. 13a. (4) In the event of a finding of infringement under para. 3 The facilities used to carry out the activity shall be removed by order determined by the ordinance under art. 56, para. 2 or under art. 13a........................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 17. Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57a The following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the words the site is added by art. 56, para. 1.................................................................................. 2. In para. 3 a sentence third is created: the Order shall be published in the Unified Public Register on a device in the territory under art. 5a............................................................................................................ 3. In para. 7 after the words 56, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 69 is amended as follows: Art. 69. (1) In the construction and restructuring of industrial and resort zones and settlements, the public events, including the landscaping, shall be carried out by the owners at their expense within the regulated land estate. (2) The conducts and facilities of the technical infrastructure may be built at the expense of the owners under conditions and in order determined by a decree of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u97	Thank you. I open the debate on paragraphs 13 to 19 on the new numbering. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote: the text of the new § 13 as amended by the Commission; the new § 14 as amended by the Commission; § 10 by importer, which becomes § 15; the new § 16 by version proposed by the Commission; § 11, which becomes § 17 by importer; § 12, which becomes § 18 by version of the Commission; and a new § 19 by text which has just been read. Vote 95 MPs: 76 against 19, no abstentions. Paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u98	Proposal by the MP Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 12a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 12a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) In the case of the separation of regulated land property at the request of the owner of the property, the exit to the street for the newly formed properties shall be provided with the project to amend the detailed planning plan of the property, in which case the face to the street of the newly developed properties shall be not less than 3,5 m. 2. The creation of para. 5. In case of separation of regulated land property at the request of the owner of the property, the exit to the street for the newly formed properties cannot be provided under the conditions of para. 4 The project to amend the detailed development plan provides for a dead end to be passed within the boundaries of divisions and new estates. In these cases, the municipality acquires ownership of the deadlock with the entry into force of the plan. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. (1) In settlements and settlements or in parts thereof without sewerage, municipal waste water in properties provided for by a detailed construction plan shall be disposed of in water-tight pits or dried and purified in facilities for the treatment of waste water formed in the property. Water-tight ditches and waste water treatment facilities shall comply with the requirements of art. Art. 41, Art. 47, para. 2, as well as sanitary and environmental requirements, as well as the technical requirements laid down in the Order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for the design, construction and operation of building plumbing and sewerage installations. Under § 13 there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs: ...... 13 to The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 87a: Art. 87a. The construction or reconstruction of plumbing and/or sewerage networks and facilities in land properties falling into landslide areas listed in the register under art. 95, para. 2 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 2. 96, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u99	Thank you. I open the debate on proposals for a new § 20, a new § 21 and § 13 by importer. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the new § 20 by the wording of the Commission and § 21 by the wording of the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 76, none, abstention 18. Paragraphs 20 and 21 have been adopted. I am now voting on the proposal of the National Representative Bonev to drop § 13. Vote 96 MPs: 20, Against 56, abstention 20. The proposal of the National Representative Bonev is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 13, which shall become § 22 in accordance with the version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 77 against 8, abstention 3. Paragraph 13 has been accepted. I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u100	Mr. Veselinov, I think we can start by presenting the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 15 there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs: ...... 14 to The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 and 2 the words "the geodefense companies' shall be replaced by the State-owned geodefense company and its branches. 2. In para. 3 the words the relevant state-owned companies for the protection are replaced by the State-owned company for the protection of the State-owned company and its branches. Under § 15 there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs: I'm gonna need to talk to you about this. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u102	All right, let's stop here. Are there any speeches? I knew you'd come forward, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed changes are entirely in the geo-protection sector. I will start with the geoprotectives how they have existed over the years, how there are three geodefenses in our country's territory. I think the issue is quite relevant at the moment... how these three geodefenses in Pleven, Varna and Pernik have one way or another merged into one, how no effort has been made over the years to expand their activities. We all see that every natural phenomenon in our country is already a disaster. This is about the geodefenses under § 14. At present, under Paragraph 15 of the Law there are precise and clear texts of how geo-defense events take place. In this case, what we are being offered is a purely formal instruction by the Ministry of Regional Development.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are not trying to alleviate the administrative burden, we are not trying to simplify the process of issuing the documents so much needed to strengthen a landslide, on the one hand, but we are expanding it. On the other hand, there is a very disturbing text on which we have had enough debate. I will allow myself to read it so that I can explain to you exactly what this is about: In short and in a straight text: we have a wall and we can build something on it, we have a support wall that has implemented the geo-defense events, and on it we can build a hotel for example. Despite the promises that this text will be taken out, it has not been taken out at the moment, so it is not right to bring it into the Chamber at all. Regarding geodefense, we see in the last few days or weeks what is happening, it is undermined roads, it is blocked roads, infrastructure. Just a little while ago, we voted on a text in which we said that a plumbing can be seen as a geo-defense facility or a geo-defense event, which is also a complete nonsense. In the Committee on Regional Development, Public Works and Local Self-government, we had a serious dialogue on these texts and we remained convinced that the latter might be withdrawn so that we could seek some other solution, but alas, the texts remained. So we are not going to support them because geodefense, how can I tell you, from an environmental problem or an infrastructure problem is already becoming a social problem. I think it is in no way right for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to enter into a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there any other statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by Mr. Bonev to drop § 14. Vote 77 MPs: 17 against 41, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 14, which shall become § 23. Vote 76 MPs: 63 against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lyubomir Bonev to drop § 15. Vote 85 MPs: 19 against 53, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which becomes § 24. Vote 91 MPs: for 74, against 12, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u105	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u106	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 which become paragraphs 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29 respectively. Vote 91 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 14. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u107	Under § 21, there is a proposal of Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs in § 21 t. One down. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2, p. The Council minutes shall not be signed within 14 days of the meeting. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The General Planning Plan is approved by the Municipal Council on a report by the mayor of the municipality. The decision of the municipal council to approve the general plan shall be promulgated in the State Gazette and shall be published in the Unified Public Register on a device on the territory under art. 5a. The approved common planning plan shall be published on the website of the municipality concerned within 7 days of its approval. 3. In para. 8 shall be added to the single public register by means of a device on the territory under art. 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m. 4. In para. 10 is finally added to the single public register by a device on the territory under art. 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m. 5. In para. 11 shall be added at the end within 7 days of their approval. 6. They're creating an al. 12 and 13: The General Planning Plan may be appealed in accordance with Article 12. 215, para. 1 within 14 days of the promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union of the instrument of approval or acceptance by the owners of real estate directly affected by its predictions. The appeal does not stop the execution of the plan. (13) Directly affected by the projections of the general plan of real estate are the properties for which the construction of sites of public ownership of the state or municipality is envisaged, or for which restrictions of ownership are established for the purpose of protecting public interests. The protection of the environment and of human health, the conservation of agricultural, forestry and protected areas and protected areas. Under § 22, there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The draft detailed development plans shall be coordinated with the central and territorial administrations concerned and, where appropriate, with the specialised control bodies. Consistency shall be carried out by: 1. the issuing of the necessary acts under the conditions, in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in a special law; 2. issue of written opinions or participation of representatives of interested departments in the meeting of the expert council, where coordination is not required to issue an act under point 2. 1; in this case, if, within one month of the receipt of the request for coordination, no written opinion has been submitted and no representative of the office concerned is present at the meeting of the expert board, the project shall be deemed to be agreed without comments; the refusals to agree must be motivated. 2. A new para is being created. 7. . (7) The agreement under para. 6, p. 1 shall be carried out by the person concerned under Article 1. 124a, para. 5, and the coordination under para. 6, p. 2 shall be carried out by the mayor of the municipality or by the competent authority under art. 124a, para. 3, 4 and 6. 3. Previously on AMC's... 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 become respectively. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14. 4. Previously on AMC's... 14 and 15 become respectively. 15 and 16 and in them the words. 127, para. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of Under § 23, there is a proposal from Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 a sentence fourth is created: the decision of the municipal council shall be published in the Unified Public Register on a device in the territory under art. 5a............................................................................................................ 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The detailed development plan in the area of up to one district and in the Sofia Municipality and in the cities with district division within a range of up to three districts, as well as for land estates outside the boundaries of settlements and settlements, including the necessary technical infrastructure elements, shall be approved by order of the mayor of the municipality. By order of the mayor of the municipality is approved and the detailed development plan under art. 81, para. 5, as well as the detailed development plan providing for dead ends up to 100 m long. The orders of the mayor of the municipality are issued within 14 days after the adoption of the relevant project for a detailed development plan by the municipal expert council. The orders of the mayor of the municipality shall be communicated to the interested persons under the terms and conditions of the Administrative Procedure Code and shall be published in the Unified Public Register according to the structure of the territory under art. 5a............................................................................................................ 3. In para. 4 words Art.128, para. The following points are inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: 128, para. 13 " and finally added to the public register shall be published in the Unified Public Register on a device in the territory under art. 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m. There is a proposal from Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 131, para. 2 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." the adjacent properties where the detailed design plan creates a related construction between them and the property or properties covered by the plan The Commission proposes to create a new § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132, para. 2 the word "specific' is deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134 para. 9 is amended as ? (9) Modification of detailed planning plans to change the purpose of regulated land estates? property of the state or municipalities assigned to objects of education, science, health or culture, as well as sports facilities and facilities, may be carried out under the conditions and under the order of this law only after written consent of the Minister concerned. The consent shall be granted by service to the mayor of the municipality or to the competent authority under art. 124a, para. Three and four. Within 7 days of receipt of the application under art. 135, para. 1 The mayor of the municipality or the competent authority under art. 124a, para. 3 and 4 shall send it to the Minister concerned, who shall, within 14 days, be obliged to give written consent or to issue a refusal. The refusal is motivated. Under § 25, there is a proposal from Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 135 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 7 shall be added to the single public register by means of a device on the territory under art. 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m. 2. The creation of para. 8. . (8) The orders under para. 3 and 5 issued by the mayor of the municipality lose legal effect when no draft amendment of the plan has been submitted within one year of their entry into force. The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ Article 3 is replaced by the following: 135a: Art. 135a. (1) Order under art. 135 shall not be issued in cases where, in the event of an amendment of detailed planning plans, interested parties are only the persons on whose initiative the amendment is sought. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply in the cases referred to in art. 124a, para. 3 and 4 and under art. 133. (3) The persons under para. 1 submit with an application to the mayor of the municipality a project to amend the detailed planning plan, accompanied by a reasoned justification of the scope and basis for the amendment. (4) The application under para. 3 suspends the application of the existing detailed development plan to land-based properties covered by the amendment. (5) Amendments to the detailed planning plans under para. 3 shall be agreed, declared, approved and entered into force under the conditions and in accordance with Section III of this Chapter. (6) The refusal of the competent authority to approve the project under para. 3 shall not prevent the submission of a reasoned proposal under Article 3. 135....................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u108	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for § 21, which becomes § 30; the version proposed by the Commission for § 22, which becomes § 31; the version proposed by the Commission for § 23, which becomes § 32; the version proposed by the Commission for § 24, which becomes § 35; the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 33 with a text under the Commission Report; and the creation of a new § 34 with a text under the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for § 25, which becomes § 36; the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 37 with a text on the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for paragraphs 26 and 27, which become respectively paragraphs 38 and 39. They voted 106 MPs: for 83, against 3, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u109	Under § 28 there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs in § 28 t. One and two down. The Commission does not support the proposal to drop out. 1. The Commission supports the proposal to drop out. 2. Proposal by the National Representative Mladen Shishkov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 5. (a) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the requirements of the regulations under each of the basic requirements for the constructions under art. 169, para. 1 and the requirements of art. 169, para. 3; (d) (b) To be created t. 9. Nine. the national requirements for the implementation of construction products in the construction of the performance of construction products provided for in the project; 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The conformity assessment shall be carried out: 1. with the adoption by the expert council of the approved administration of residential and mixed buildings with low building and villa buildings under art. 137, para. 1, t. 5 letter (s), their reconstructions, reconstructions, major repairs and change of purpose, as well as for the sites under art. 137, para. 1, t. 5 letters (e) and (e) or (f) of the contracting authority's request. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. as a complex report drawn up by a registered company, a consultant not related to the projector for sites from first to fifth category mandatory, with the exception of the sites under point 2. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. In para. 8 after the words the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the State Agency 4. Paragraph 9 is amended as follows: All documents of the investment project are signed and stamped by the relevant qualified specialist and by the manager of the legal person or by the sole trader consultant who carried out the conformity assessment. The complex conformity assessment report shall be drawn up and stamped by the consultant and signed by the manager of the legal person or by the sole trader consultant and by all qualified specialists who have carried out the assessment of investment projects in the relevant parts. The complex report contains a mandatory assessment of the fulfilment of the requirements of para. 5. 5. In para. The second sentence is finally added and a report containing a mandatory assessment for the fulfilment of the requirements of para. 5, t. 5 in Part "Consoles' and Art. 169, para. 1, t. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u110	Are there any speeches? I shall put the following texts to the vote: First, we will vote on the unsupported part of Mr. Bonev's proposal. They voted 106 MPs: 24, against 64, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 28, which becomes § 40, and the text of the importer for § 29, which becomes § 41. Vote 101 MPs: 84 against 7, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u111	Under § 30, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MP Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs: In § 30, p. 1 in the new content of para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Point two, drop it. 2. Points 3 "6" become respectively. 2... 5........................................................................... 3. Point 7 is to be dropped. 4. Point 8 becomes t. 6, and in it the combination of the two uses is changed to the one used or to the other. 5. Point 9 to be reported. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal in the rest of the proposal. 1, 2, 3 and 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the importer's proposal and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 The investment projects shall be agreed and approved after written application of the contracting entity and after submission of: 1. documents for ownership, and for buildings of residential buildings and an effective decision of the General Assembly for adoption of the project; 2. visa for designing with output data and conditions for joining the networks of technical infrastructure under art. 140a or visa for design under art. 140, para. 3; 3. a document providing output data and conditions for joining the technical infrastructure networks by operating companies in cases where no visa is requested for design under art. 140a; 4. an investment project - two copies in paper form and one copy in electronic medium, such as the format of the recording of the electronic medium of the investment project and the documents and the data to it shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 139 para. 5; 5. data of administrative acts which, depending on the type and size of the construction, are a necessary condition for the authorisation of the construction under the Law on Protection of the Environment, the Biodiversity Act, the Law on Cultural Heritage or other special law; 6. assessment of the conformity of the design documentation with the basic requirements for the construction when prepared by a consultant under art. 142, para. 6, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 7. a positive opinion issued by the bodies for fire safety and protection of the population, for the constructions of the first, second and third categories; 8. data on an effective permit for water consumption or use or a permit for discharge of waste water issued in accordance with the order and in the cases provided for in the Water Act; 9. data for a positive opinion of the state health control authorities for investment projects for sites under the Law on Food and Public Use within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 9 of the additional provisions of the Health Act. 2. In para. 6 the words "proofs of ownership in favour of the investor of the site' shall be replaced by "proofs of pre-execution of the act of expropriation'. 3. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: . (7) Administrative acts and documents under para. 1, t. 2, 5, 8 and 9 shall be provided in a professional capacity on the basis of the relevant identification data specified by the applicant. (8) For coordination and approval of investment projects fees are paid under the Law on State Fees and under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u112	Are there any speeches? I put to the vote the unsupported part of Mr. Bonev's proposal points 1, 2, 3 and 5. They voted 103 MPs: 21, against 65, abstentioned 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 30, which shall become § 42, as well as the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 43. Vote 101 MPs: 80 against 13, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u113	Under § 32, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in its systematic position in § 45. Proposal from the MP Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 32: I. B t. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the words The following points shall be inserted after the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article: 17 and 18s; (b) the text shall be supplemented by t. 18: 18. change of purpose when the cadastral map classificationor does not change. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 words. 1, t. 1, 4, 5, 7 and 17 are changing to para. 1, t. 1, 4, 5, 7, 17 and 18 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Mladen Shishkov, made in accordance with the order of art. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the buildings of the complementary construction, except for the buildings intended for production, public service or trade and the buildings under art. 151, para. 1);supposed to be in the form of a combination of two or more of the following forms: (b) To be created t. 3: "3." reconstruction or major renovation of roofs of buildings located in the property of private property destined for low housing construction, without the construction of new concrete plates, without changing the height and purpose of the floor space; (c) create a t. 6: It's six. the constructions under art. 50, t. 1 et c. point 2 (b) is replaced by the following: (d) shall be established. 17: Seventeen. greenhouses with an area of 200 sq. m to 1000 sq. m. including, without accompanying production installations and without supporting (service) buildings and buildings. 2. In para. 2 words. 1, t. 1, 4, 5 and 7 1, t. 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 17. 3. In para. 3 sentence 2 is created: The agreement is carried out by service at the request of the main architect of the municipality. The Commission proposes to create a new § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Section II of Chapter Eight establishes art. 147a: Art. 147a. (1) A change of the purpose of buildings or of independent buildings in buildings without carrying out construction and installation works shall be carried out after authorisation to change the purpose by the chief architect of the municipality, provided that the requirements of art. 38 or 39, the rules and regulations on construction are not violated and positive opinions have been submitted by the relevant competent authorities on compliance with the requirements laid down by a regulatory act for the new purpose. (2) The authorisation to change the purpose shall be notified to the interested persons under art. 38 or 39 and shall be published in the Unified Public Register on a device in the territory under art. 5a............................................................................................................ Under § 33, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 4 after the words the President of the State Agency "National Security" the Union is replaced by a comma, and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency "Research" is added "or by the President of the State Agency "Technical Operations" and the words "when it refers to the sites of this agency" are deleted. 2. In para. 13 after the word "Adaptation" is added as well as the construction and upgrade of the buildings involved. 3. They're creating an al. 15 and 16: The construction permits referred to in paragraph 15 of this Article shall be issued by the competent authority of the Member State in which the construction of the building is carried out. 2 and para. 3, p. 1 and 2 shall be published in the Single Public Register on a device in the territory referred to in Article 2. 5a. (16) Building permit in regulated land property shall only be granted under a detailed development plan applied with regard to regulation, including. street regulation linking the site to the street or road network and providing access to the land property concerned. In the case of regulated land estate with a face on more than one street, it is sufficient that street regulation is applied on the street on which access to the site is made. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." in cases referred to in art. 185, para. 1 The owners and holders of limited property rights of the redesigned sites, premises or parts thereof; 2. A t is created. 4. "4." in cases referred to in art. 185, para. 2 The owners and holders of limited property rights in the building, respectively the owners of the floor property. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 Finally, a comma is placed and light buildings for heating materials and inventory are added, wells, fountains, waterproof pits and temporary toilets. 2. A t is created. 17: Seventeen. greenhouses with a temporary portable structure, regardless of size and shape, covered with polyethylene, polyvinyl or other suitable material, without accompanying production installations and without auxiliary (service) buildings and structures. Under § 49, there is a proposal from Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 154, para. The third sentence is created: the supplement order does not renew the start date, respectively, for completion of the construction.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u114	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My statement will be by § 32, a new § 44 and, in particular, the new item. 17 to art. 147 of the Construction Act in the territory, which states that approval of investment projects is not required when issuing a building permit, especially for greenhouses from 200 to 1000 sq. m. Colleagues, this addition has come a long way, gone through the Commission at second reading, and I sincerely hope it will be supported today in this House. We are at the end of this long road and this amendment concerns a huge part of the farmers, namely those involved in the construction of greenhouses. I am a representative from Southwestern Bulgaria, in particular from the Petrichko-Sandan region, in which the region of this type of agricultural activity is the greenhouse production, occupies a huge part of the entire agricultural production. Already at the beginning of many of the meetings that were held with farmers in my area, they have expressed their opinion that so far, in the current regulations, the very construction of these greenhouses has been accompanied by huge administrative burdens and many documentation necessary for this construction. As an example, I can give you that a construction of a greenhouse as documentation might have been compared with the construction of a large hotel or a residential building. It is with this amendment, with this addition in point. 17 to art. 147 we manage to satisfy the needs of these farmers and to make them work much better from now on and to build more greenhouses that occupy much of the entire agricultural production. I thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works who supported this idea. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Committee on Regional Policy, where this proposal for addition to art. 147 was accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u116	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by Mr. Bonev. They voted 99 MPs: 23, against 53, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 32, which shall become § 44; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 45 with a text on the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for § 33, which shall become § 46; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 47 with a text on the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for § 34, which shall become § 48; and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 49 with a text under the Commission Report. Vote 94 MPs: 74 against 15, abstention 5. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u117	According to § 35 there is a proposal from Iskren Veselinov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 by the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The authorities of the Directorate for National Construction Control at the same time as the official inspection under para. 1 perform and verify the assessment of compliance of the investment project with the requirements of art. 142, para. 5, t. 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 and 9 reflected in the complex report drawn up by the consultant. 2. A new para is being created. 4 and 5 and para. 6: (4) The circumstances of para. 1, 2 and 3 shall be established by a constant protocol drawn up by the authorities of the National Construction Control Directorate. (5) In the event of detection of infringements under para. 2 and 3 as well as other infringements leading to the unlawfulness of the issued works, as reflected in the constant protocol drawn up under para. 4, The Head of the Directorate for National Building Control or an official authorised by him shall revoke by a reasoned order the building permit or the order to supplement under art. 154, para. 5, together with approved investment projects, except those issued and approved by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (6) The complaint or protest of nullity of the building permit issued after the expiry of the time limits under para. 1 and under art. 215, para. 4 does not stop its action. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Five o'clock. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 8..................................................... Under § 36, there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 5 after the words the President of the State Agency "National Security" the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency "Research" is added "or by the President of the State Agency "Technical Operations." 2. In para. 6 words in case, within 6 months of the date of their approval, the construction has not started, as well as the comma before them are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u118	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 35, which shall become § 50; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 36, which shall become § 51; and the text of the importer for § 37, § 38 and § 39 which shall become § 52, § 53 and § 54 respectively. Vote 92 MPs: 75 against 11, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u119	Under § 40, there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 55. Under § 41, there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 41, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 3 to be The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u120	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Bonev's unsupported proposal. They voted 99 MPs: for 30, against 56, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 55. They voted 93 MPs: 73, against 15, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by Mr. Bonev. Vote 96 MPs: 19 against 66 abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 56. Vote 95 MPs: 78 against 9, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u121	Under § 42, there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 57. Under § 43, there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs. In § 43 in the new content of para. 6 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Point three, drop it. 2. Point 7 is to be dropped. 3. Point nine, drop out. 4. Point 11 is to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 1. 6 (6) Upon completion of the construction works, the person exercising construction supervision shall prepare a final report to the contracting entity. The final report must be drawn up and stamped by the person exercising construction supervision and signed by the manager of the consulting company and by all qualified specialists designated for the supervision of the construction of the relevant parts. The report shall contain an assessment of the fulfilment of the following conditions: 1. lawful start and implementation of the construction according to the approved projects and the conditions of the granted building permit, detailed description and compliance of the detailed construction plan; 2. completeness and proper drawing up of the acts and protocols during construction; 3. connecting internal installations and construction systems with the networks and facilities of the technical infrastructure; 4. performance of the construction according to the requirements of art. 169, para. 1 and 3; 5. compliance of the input construction products with the requirements of art. 169a, para. 1; 6. damage caused and removed to the contracting authority and to other construction actors resulting from non-compliance with the technical rules and regulations and approved projects or damage to third parties and property due to construction; 7. fitness of the construction for putting into service; 8. performance of the construction in accordance with other specific requirements for certain types of constructions according to a regulatory act, if any; 9. implementation of the construction in accordance with the requirements of administrative acts which, depending on the type and size of the construction, are a necessary condition for the authorisation of the construction under the Environmental Protection Act, the Biodiversity Act, the Cultural Heritage Act or any other special law, as well as the coverage of the measures and conditions of these acts in the project; 10. performance of the construction in accordance with the requirements for selective separation of waste formed during construction and assembly works and demolition activities in order to ensure their subsequent recovery, including recycling and achievement of the respective quantitative targets for recovery and recycling. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u122	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Lyubomir Bonev. Vote 97 MPs: 24, against 62, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 42, which becomes § 57. Vote 91 MPs: 69, against 10, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Lyubomir Bonev on § 43. Vote 94 MPs: 22, Against 56, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 43, which shall become § 58; and the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 59; and § 45, which shall become § 60. Vote 95 MPs: 77 against 16, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u123	Under § 46, there is a proposal from Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 shall be added at the end, and the sites referred to in art. 147 a.m. 2. In para. 3, p. 5 words................................................................................. In the mid- and high-rise areas, the 69s shall be replaced by the ones in the mid- and high-rise areas, as well as the high-rise areas. 3. In para. 7 after the words the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words the Chairman of the State Agency "Research" is added. 4. The creation of para. 9. The construction of streets, roads or alleys under para. 3, p. 5 may also be carried out at the expense of the owners under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the ordinance under art. 69, para. 2. Proposal by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words. "Constanted by a protocol of the municipal (region) administration.................................................................................................... 2. The creation of para. 3: (3) The completion of the building in rough construction shall be established by a protocol according to the Ordinance under art. 168, para. 3 which is drawn up by the person exercising construction supervision in the presence of the contracting entity, the builder, the designer and the employee under art. 223, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u124	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u125	Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Chairman! Just two paragraphs ago, we agreed that without taking away your property for a street near forcefully, you would not be granted a building permit. However, we are now accepting, in my opinion, another building-normal paradox, namely: in order to put the building into service and people to receive the desired Act 16, they must fulfill the street. But we're not talking about pure asphalt here, we're talking about all the leading infrastructure here. Because every Bulgarian citizen, each one of whom builds, will be obliged, upon receipt or receipt of Act 16, to build, at his own expense, the facilities of the operating companies and to fulfil the duties of the municipalities, texts of which we do not know by themselves what the short-term or long-term consequences will be. The only thing that is certain is that it will burden contracting entities with funds to carry out facilities. We will assign them obligations which, at the very least, should be fulfilled by these operating companies. So there is no way to support these texts. This is about the implementation of the streets, which will become mandatory only after their promulgation in the Official Journal. I don't know... We have had a long debate on this subject, but obviously no relevant lessons have been learnt and we will not support it in any way. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] If there's anything you want to tell me, pick up a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u126	Mr. Bonev, closer you just need to talk. Thank you. Are there lines? I can't see. I see people without masks, please. Thanks. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. We shall proceed to the vote of § 46, as amended by the Commission, which shall become § 61; and the text of the new § 62. Vote 96 MPs: 74 against 16, abstention 6. The two paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u127	Under § 47, there is a proposal from Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs: § 47 to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 63. Proposal by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 is finally placed comma and added public parking lots. 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." for the construction of social infrastructure sites; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 65. Under § 49, there is a proposal from Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4. (a) the second sentence shall be amended as follows: "The complaints and protests against acts approving a detailed development plan or authorising the construction of a municipal establishment of paramount importance shall be submitted through the authority which issued the act within 14 days of the promulgation of the act in the Official Journal of the European Union; (b) sentences 3 and 4 shall be created: "The complaints and protests against acts approving a detailed establishment plan for an object of national importance and/or national object shall be submitted through the authority which issued the act within 14 days of the publication of the act in the Official Journal. Complaints and protests against a permit for the construction of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works or refusal to issue shall be filed within 14 days of the publication of the notice on the issue of the act in the Official Journal. 2. In para. 5 words................................................................................. 156, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of 3. In para. 7 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. the preparation of assessments and the determination of the amount and payment of benefits under art. 210, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission proposes to create a new § 67: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: ) (a.k.a. 1 the word "supplied' is deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 71. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become § 72: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 232 is created. 10, 11 and 12: It is punished with a fine from 1000 to 15 000 BGN. a designer who did not fulfil an obligation under art. 162, para. 4. (11) They shall be punished with a fine from 500 to 2000 BGN, if by another law no more severe punishment is provided for, capable natural persons who carry out the conformity assessment activities of the projects and/or construction supervision of the constructions for other violations of this law adopted by the Council of Ministers, respectively the acts issued by the ministers on its implementation and the other rules and regulations on design and construction, as well as the decisions and regulations based on them. (12) Punishable with a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN. a person exercising technical control under Part-Console, which has failed to fulfil an obligation under art. 142, para. 10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 55, which shall become § 73: .............................................................................. Article 237 is amended as follows: Art. 237. (1) The Head of the National Building Control Directorate or an official authorised by him shall impose a financial penalty on a legal person or a sole trader as follows: 1. of the perpetrator, contracting entity or builder of construction from first to third category including, illegal within the meaning of art. 225, para. 2 sq. in the amount of 5000 to 50 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. of the perpetrator, contracting entity or builder of construction under art. 224, para. 1 from 1st to 3rd category, including the amount of 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. of a contracting entity or a builder who continued to carry out construction works on a first to third category including, suspended by an order under art. 224, para. 1 and 5 or under art. 159, para. 4, or construction with suspension of the construction papers.. of the amount of 10 000 to 100 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. a person who uses construction from first to third category including, without being allowed under the established legal order of 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5. to a person who, without having the right, performs an activity included in the competence of the consultant and technical control for part of the Consort..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6. a person who has carried out an assessment of compliance of an investment project in violation of the requirements of art. 142, para. 5 and/or in the exercise of construction supervision allowed the execution of illegal construction within the meaning of art. 225, para. 2 sq. in the amount of 5000 to 50 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 7. to a supplier of electricity or heat, water or gas which has failed to comply with an order under art. 224, para. 3 or under art. 178, para. BGN 5 to BGN 5000 to BGN 50 000• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 8. of a builder, for the implementation of constructions of the first category, without being entered in the Central Professional Register of the builder and without having issued certificate for them from 50 000 to 100 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 9. of a builder, for the implementation of constructions of a second category, without being entered in the Central Professional Register of the builder and without having issued certificate for them from 30 000 to 50 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 10. of a builder, for the implementation of constructions of the third, fourth and fifth category, without being entered in the Central Professional Register of the builder and without having issued a certificate for them, except for the constructions under art. 14, para. 2 of the Law on the House of Builders from 10 000 to 30 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 11. of a builder, for the execution of construction works and installation works without being entered in the Central Professional Register of the builder and without having issued certificate for them from 2000 to 5000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 12. to a manufacturer of construction products supplied for direct installation of the construction site from the places of production which do not comply with the requirements of art. 169a, para. 1 size from 5000 to 30 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 13. of a person who has concluded a contract for construction supervision or for an assessment of compliance of an investment project in violation of art. 166, para. BGN 3 and 4 in the amount of BGN 30 000 to BGN 150 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 14. of the contracting entity of a construction that has failed to fulfil an obligation under art. 161, para. 4 size from 5000 to 30 000 lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 15. of a builder who did not fulfil an obligation under art. 163, para. 2, p. 1.. 5.. from 5000 to 30 000 BGN.....................................................................................• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 16. to a construction entity which does not assign the drawing up of a technical passport within the time limits of the ordinance under art. 176a, para. 6 size from 1000 to 10 000 BGN. 17. of a person exercising construction supervision of construction under art. 224, para. 1 size from 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 18. of a person exercising construction supervision of a building which has failed to fulfil an obligation under art. 168, para. 1 size from 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 19. of a person exercising construction supervision of a construction site not fulfilling an obligation under art. 169b, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 166, para. 1, t. 2 size from 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 20. of a person exercising construction supervision of a building that has drawn up a final report in violation of the requirements of art. 168, para. 6 size from 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 21. of a person exercising construction supervision of construction, not fulfilling an obligation under art. 159, para. 4 size from 1000 to 10 000 lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 22. of a person exercising construction supervision of construction, not fulfilling an obligation under art. 158, para. 2 size from 1000 to 3000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 23. of a builder and a person exercising construction supervision, which caused an accident in the construction of 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 24. of a person exercising copyright supervision when following his order there was an accident in the construction of the building of 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 25. of a builder who did not fulfil an obligation under art. 163a, para. 1 size from 1000 to 5000 лв. (2) The mayor of the municipality shall impose a penalty on a legal person or a sole trader as follows: 1. of the perpetrator, contracting entity or builder of a fourth to sixth category, illegal within the meaning of art. 225, para. BGN 2 to BGN 5000 to BGN 20 000• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. of the perpetrator, contracting entity or builder of construction under art. 224a, para. BGN 1 and 2 in the amount of BGN 1000 to BGN 10 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. of the perpetrator, contracting entity or builder, continued to carry out construction and assembly works of construction, stopped by order under art. 224a, para. BGN 1 and 5 in the amount of BGN 10,000 to BGN 50 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. a person who uses a construction of category 4 and 5 without being allowed under the established legal order of 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5. to a supplier of electricity or heat, water or gas which has failed to comply with an order under art. 57a, para. 6 or under art. 224a, para. 3 or under art. 178, para. 6 size from 5000 to 20 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6. to the owner of a building or land property which has failed to comply with an order under art. 195, para. 5 and created an immediate danger to the health and life of other people from 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 7. a person who has allowed to be placed on his property or has placed a moving object or advertising element in conflict with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 56, para. 2 size from 1000 to 10 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 8. of an operator of an electronic communications network engaged in activities under art. 151, para. 1, t. 16 in violation of art. 151, para. 4, 5, 7, 8 or 9 (3) In case of default within the term of the obligations or in the case of the provision of incomplete or inaccurate data under art. 125, para. Art. 4, Art. Art. 128a and under art. 140a, para. 3 The mayor of the municipality, the governor of the district, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Interior, the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security", the Chairman of the State Agency..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... weekly until the obligation is fulfilled. (4) The mayor of the municipality, the governor of the district, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Interior, the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, the Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence and the Chairman of the State Agency of Technical Operations. to the relevant operating company requesting payment for the provision of output data, opinions, objections, prescriptions or other information in the cases referred to in art. 125, para. Art. 4, Art. Art. 128a and under art. 140a, para. 3. (5) The Minister of Interior or an official appointed by him shall impose a penalty against a legal person or a sole trader, a builder who has not fulfilled an obligation under art. 163, para. 2, p. 1 in relation to art. 169, para. 1, t. 2 sq. from 5000 to 30 000 lv. (6) The penalties under para. 1 " 5" shall be imposed in accordance with art. 238 and 239. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 74.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u128	Thank you. I am opening the debates under paragraphs 47 "56," but first I will put to the vote Mr. Bonev's proposal under § 47... for the drop of the paragraph. Any comments, excuse me? Are there any statements on his proposal? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. They voted 101 MPs: 20, against 69, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Statements referred to in paragraphs 63 - 74, with a new numbering? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I vote: § 63 by importer; new § 64; § 65 by importer; § 66 by Commission version; new § 67; paragraphs 68, 69, 70, 71 by importer; paragraphs 72 and 73 by Commission version; and § 74 by importer. They voted 99 MPs: 79, against 16, abstention 4. The twelve paragraphs I've read have already been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u129	Under § 57, there is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Bonev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2, and the proposal under point 2. Three has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 57, which shall become § 75: ................................................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1a, after the words the Chairman of the State Agency is added....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Paragraph 3 creates Paragraph 3. 3: . (3) No fees shall be charged for the coordination of service with central and territorial administrations and specialized control bodies. 3. Paragraph 5: (a) c. The second sentence is created: "In determining the purpose of the building, the workshops are considered to be housing. (b) c. 29a is created sentence two:,In determining the purpose of the building the workshops are considered to be housing. (c) c. A sentence second is created: "Current repair of construction is also the improvement and maintenance of the elements of the technical infrastructure under art. 64, para. 1, in which the track and technical characteristics do not change. (d) point 79 is amended as follows: I'm sorry. The State-owned Geodefense Company and its branches shall be the Geoprotective Company Ltd. of Varna, with branches of Pleven, and the Geosaprotective Branch of Pernik. (e) create a t. 83 and 84: "83." It is a plant for the whole year or seasonal cultivation of plant species, with permanent construction, with or without accompanying production plants for water supply, electricity, heating, ventilation, etc. 84. "Parnik" is a plant for seasonal cultivation of plant species with a temporary portable structure covered with polyethylene, polyvinyl or other suitable material, without accompanying production plants for water supply, electricity, heating, ventilation, etc. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 76. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u130	I shall open the deliberations under § 57 and § 58 which shall become § 75 and § 76 respectively. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of § 57, which shall become § 75 as amended by the Commission; and the text of § 58, which shall become § 76 by text of an importer. 90 MPs voted: 73, against 13, abstention 4. Paragraphs 57 and 58, with a new numbering, paragraphs 75 and 76, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u131	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 78. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 61, which becomes § 79. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 81. The Commission proposes to establish § 82: ............................................................................... Constructions for which a construction permit has been issued until the entry into force of this law shall be completed and put into service under the current order. Proposal by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 83: ........ 83...................................................................... Unfinished legal proceedings under art. 210, para. 3 shall be completed in accordance with this Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 84. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 85. Proposal by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 86: ........ 86...................................................................... The entry into force until the entry into force of this law permits under art. 135, para. 3 and Orders under Art. 135, para. 5 for the preparation of amendments to detailed planning plans shall lose legal effect if no draft approval of the plan has been submitted within one year of the entry into force of this law. Proposal by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 87: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Until the approval of a template for drawing up a protocol for the completion of the building in rough construction in the ordinance under art. 168, para. 3 The completion of the rough construction is established in the order so far. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 66, which shall become § 88: ...... 88............................................................................ In § 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Cadastral and Property Register Act (prom., SG No. ...) is created t. 1b: 1b. The building is an independent construction of the main or complementary construction under the Land Structure Act, permanently attached to the land, separated from the external environment organized internal spaces and with functional purpose according to the classificationor, determined by the ordinance under art. 31; Proposal by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 89: ........... 89................................................................... In the Law on Municipal Property (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 21 the following additions are made: "1." In para. 7 shall be added at the end, except for the cases referred to in Article 7. 81, para. 5 of the Law on construction of the territory. 2. The creation of para. 10: The municipalities maintain a register of the properties which are subject to alienation for the realization of the events under para. 1. In the register must be entered the site for the construction of which the property is intended for alienation and the detailed development plan on the basis of which the property is alienated. Proposal by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 90: .............................................................................. The register under art. 21, para. 10 of the Municipal Property Act is established within one year of the entry into force of this law. Proposal by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 91: .............................................................................. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 15, para. 7 words.............................................................................. 181, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 181, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation The Commission proposes to establish § 92: ................. In the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 19th para. The second sentence is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-27.u132	I open discussions on the title of the section as well as on your 16 read paragraphs. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions'; as well as the texts of new paragraphs 77, 78, 79, 80, 81 by importer; 82 and 83 new paragraphs; paragraphs 84 and 85 by importer; paragraphs 86 and 87, new proposals; § 88 by version of the Commission; new paragraph 89, § 90, § 91 and § 92. One amendment during the vote. The paragraphs that I have announced as new are actually renumbered by this numbering that I have read. They voted 93 MPs: for 76, against 15 abstentions 2. The title of the section as well as the 16 paragraphs have been adopted. That's what we've done with the territory design law. With great regret, I must announce to you that today's meeting is over. The next meeting tomorrow, January 28th, at 9:00 p.m., in the same place, in the same room. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
