ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please, registration mode. Registered 178 MPs. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting! Dear colleagues, today is the first Wednesday of the month and we begin with art. 53, para. 8 of the Members of the Court of Auditors' proposals for inclusion of items on the agenda by parliamentary groups. Proposal from GERB-SDS parliamentary group. There's no proposal. A proposal from the political party parliamentary group. 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties. Importers "Iva Miteva and a group of MPs. Proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria 2. First vote on the bill supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There's no proposal. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria 3. Draft decision to establish a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning the actions and omissions of the competent authorities on illegal constructions and sites in the territory of Lesopark "Rosenets" in the area of Cape Chukalata, Burgas. Importers suppose Dimitar Naydenov and a group of MPs. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group. Stand up! Goons out! 4. First vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. I'm continuing with the program under art. 53, para. 3: 5. Draft decision on the award of the Council of Ministers to ensure that Bulgarian citizens have access to the Russian vaccine against the CIVID-19 "Sputnik V." Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importers sandar Simidchiev and Atanas Slavov. 7. Hearing of the President and the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the validation of new prices of electricity and heat for the price period from 1 July 2021 to 30 June 2022, as well as the forthcoming examination and validation of new business plans of water operators and the formation of prices of water supply and sewerage services for the regulatory period 2022. "2026" Importer "Maya Manolova." 8. Draft law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Romania on cross-border operations for Air Polish. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 9. Parliamentary control under art. art. 95 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. You have the floor, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I expected you, Madam President, to say that two of the points are inadmissible on the grounds on which they are requested. That's t. 2 The proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 4 The Parliamentary Group is standing up! Goons out! Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 is replaced by the following: 53, para. 8, but if you read the whole text of this paragraph, you can see that other conditions must be met in order to offer points in the Programme. I mean, Art. 78, para. 3, that is, it has been two months since these bills came into committee. However, on April 15th, we are not even May 15th. I think you should apply the Rules and drop those two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u3	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. I put that question to the Conference of Presidents for these two points. They really haven't run out of time under this para. 8, the conditions are not fulfilled, but para. 8 contains contradictions, because, on the other hand, requires a debate on the substance, which you understand cannot happen if the condition is that the time limit has expired. So with full consensus as early as last week, the Presidential Council decided to consider these points. We asked the chairmen of the relevant committees to include them and consider them. Today, again, the Conference of Presidents, by consensus, decided that these points should remain. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] In fact, the only group that objected was GERB-SDS. That's why I'm not saying "cooperatively." All the other parliamentary groups agreed that, given the situation we are in, it is good for the parliamentary groups to be able to present these drafts and to be dealt with today at this meeting. Mr. Hadjigenov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I request the inclusion of the cameras of BNT 1.. I pay particular attention not to become like the other day, and the Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u5	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposed direct transmission on BNT and BNR. Vote 218 MPs: 212, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. We're moving on. I put to the vote the points 4 to 9 in your so proposed Programme, which are subject to voting under art. 53, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Vote 153 MPs: 150, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. A proposal has been made on the grounds of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the inclusion of a item on the agenda of the weekly program at First Reading of: Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judiciary, No 154-01-22, submitted by Hristo Ivanov, Atanas Slavov and Atanas Atanasov; and the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 154-01-23, submitted by Hristo Ivanov, Atanas Slavov and Atanas Atanas Atanasov. The proposal was made by Hristo Ivanov as Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria." Would you like the floor, Mr. Ivanov, to present your proposal? No. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear importers, I think your proposal is not precise. With one proposal per para. 3 a single bill may be proposed for consideration. It is unacceptable for two laws to be examined under the Rules of Procedure. Please specify, choose one bill and consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u7	Mr. Hamid, the Rules of Procedure only require MPs to be one proposal. As regards the parliamentary groups, there is no such requirement in art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules. Do you want to vote the dots separately or together? [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] This is what I read in the Rules of Procedure, Art. 53, para. 3. Any Member of the National Assembly may propose one item on the agenda, Ms. Karayancheva. There are no parliamentary groups, they are in the previous sentence. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u8	Read the text on which the parliamentary groups may propose.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u9	Proposals for inclusion of points in the forthcoming programme may be made in writing to the President of the National Assembly by the Members of the National Assembly and the parliamentary groups by 18:00 on the day preceding the plenary session. [[Relations from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] The next sentence says: Every MP can offer one point. There is nothing on the parliamentary groups in para. 3. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I'm literally reading it to you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Mr. Hamid for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u10	Madam President, you have read the text very correctly. There is no limit to making separate proposals. My opinion was that one proposal cannot contain two bills. Let there be two separate proposals. There is no limit for groups to make both five and ten and 20 proposals under para. 3. My idea was that it was not precise in one proposal to contain two separate bills. That's what I asked for clarification. Moreover, I did not see a report from the Legal Committee on these bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u11	There is no report from the Committee on Legal Affairs, but the Commission has examined the bills. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] If there is no consensus, I will not put these bills to the vote, because indeed, according to art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules, if there are no reports received, the proposals are inadmissible. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Hristo Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u12	Madam President, if you are concerned with the unification of two related bills in one proposal, let them be voted separately. [[Heckling]] Excuse me? Let them be voted separately. I also understand that the report was submitted this morning. I'm making this offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u13	Mr. Ivanov, in order to be precise with the Rules of Procedure, I am not worried that you did so in a single proposal under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules. Rather, I am concerned that there is no report submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Therefore, if a report of the Committee on Legal Affairs is tabled, I can do so as a proposal for a item on the agenda of the next plenary sittings. Thank you. There has been a proposal to include a item on the agenda of the Project for a Decision on the Establishment... Tell me, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u14	The report of the Legal Committee has already been submitted and it is a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u15	By which law? [[Heckling]] Mr. Vassilev. They weren't imported until just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the long meeting last time, the report was signed this morning at 8.30 p.m. and for this reason you probably do not have it, but it was deposited at the National Assembly at 9.06 p.m. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Can't, the sitting has already begun.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Are there reports on both bills?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u19	Okay. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, they cannot be considered at today's meeting, but that does not prevent Mr. Hamid from putting them on the agenda for Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u20	They start running 72 hours from 9.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u21	They're not gonna make it through. These 72 hours are for the transcript, Mr. Hamid, so let's get this straight, not about the Bill. [[Noise and lines.]] I shall put it to the vote, in that case, after there has been a report submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs... Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u22	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, as far as I recall the already adopted proposal for the reports of the relevant committees to be submitted no later than 72 hours in the Ministry, it was precisely to the colleagues from...................................................................................... Let's respect their... It is obvious that this week there can be no 72 hours until the end of the work week, so there is no way to include this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u23	No later than 72 hours of preparation the meeting was held. They don't flow from entry to viewing, but from vote to submission, so now... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u24	The report... The text of art. 36, which we have changed, states that the minutes of the discussion of drafts are published on the Commission's website, on the website of the National Assembly within seven days of the meeting and no later than 72 hours before the examination of the report in plenary. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] A proposal for a draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment and verification of the legality of the construction of all... Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u25	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I'm making two notes. Firstly, it became clear from the provision as read by the President of the National Assembly that it was about publishing the minutes of the discussions in the relevant parliamentary committees [[noise and lines]] , not for the submission of the examination reports in plenary, first. Secondly, I ask that the same standard be applied to all the points that we are considering on the agenda. Otherwise we blam our own work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Mr. Glauchev for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u27	Thank you, Madam President. I also appeal to apply the same standard. The points that are included, albeit by para. Art. 8, Art. 53, no reports were received either. What are we discussing? You know that. Not at 9:00. So far, there is nothing more. At 2:30 there is a meeting of the Budget Committee, albeit temporary, which should consider them. Well, what are we going to look at on the Budget Committee then? In addition to violating the regulations of the Rules of Procedure, everything becomes meaningless. We're really turning everything upside down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. I think I've explained clearly enough about the application of art. 53, para. 8. We're in the middle of something now. 53, para. 3 of the Rules, so we continue with the draft program and the proposals made under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules. Mr. Vigenin for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u29	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not have any strong feelings for this bill, but if we really have to comply with our Rules, the member in question, who has been quoted, is for the publication of the website of the National Assembly and not for submission to the National Assembly. That is, this bill can be viewed calmly today, but in any case, we can safely, even accept the broader interpretation that you are doing. It can be viewed within this plenary week and it can be included on the agenda today, for example, for Friday. After all, it is the President and the Chamber's decision. But in any case, the attempt to avoid considering a bill with procedural moves, I don't think it's the best policy. Let the National Assembly rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u30	Mr. Tsonev for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u31	Madam President, thank you. First, Christ has risen to all Christians! Secondly, it is not very appropriate to listen to Mr Vigenin for a procedure, because at the last meeting, which leads in opposition with a Constitutional Court ruling, which says that when there is an internal contradiction in a bill, a third vote on a particular text is allowed in order to smooth out the internal contradiction. He did not allow this decision to be applied by the Constitutional Court, and I am sceptical about the procedures that he is already proposing. It wasn't very heroic what you did. I was just waiting for the moment to reminisce. It's about the current procedure. A uniform application of the Rules does not mean a violation of the Rules. By para. 8, if there is an agreement of the Conference of Presidents, given the deadline, could be allowed, but under para. 3 There is no way, provided that no report has been received until 9:00, but has been received at 9.06. It will be put to the vote when the Rules allow by you, Madam President, in the Chamber, as you said. Once the deadline is up, put it to the table and we'll vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u32	Yes, Mr. Tsonev, that's what I'm going to do. That's what I just told her. And when the deadlines are up, the report is actually submitted at 9.06, so on Friday, if there is an agreement and the deadlines are over, I will make a proposal under art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules. Proposal for inclusion of a item on the agenda The draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment and verification of the legality of the construction of all sites located on the territory of the Lesopark The proposal was submitted by the chairman of the parliamentary group GERB-SDS. Does anyone want to present the proposal, or are we going to vote? I won't. They voted 218 MPs: yes 104, against 74, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Rashidov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u33	Dear Madam President, since this text is specific, I very much want this text to be included in this text, as well as the pigeondove in Aleppu. So, I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u34	Please, voting mode. Mr. Svilenski's back offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, such a committee has already voted on the agenda. Colleagues from GERB-SDS, be honest and sincere....................................................................................................... what do you Do you want a committee to check in the park?? Rosenets? Or do you want to sabotage the work of the National Assembly? Point two or third of the requirement is precisely this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u36	You don't know how to take it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u37	No, I know very well how to take...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u38	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u39	So our group abstained because on the same issue there cannot be two items on the agenda and six committees being made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. We're overreacting. Vote 228 MPs: for 73, against 80, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. A proposal for inclusion of a item on the agenda has been put in place "Project of a Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the Investigation of Facts and Circumstances in the Use of Tear Gas, the Use of Force and Assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens. Importer - Nikolai Hadjigenov. Mr. Hadjigenov, do you want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Commission is important for many reasons, however, the main of them outside the violence committed against Bulgarian citizens is the fact that the government of GERB abdicated from the investigation of this violence, together with Prosecutor General Geshev. The only ones being investigated and charged are the victims of police brutality. This outrage must stop! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Please, voting mode. Vote 222 MPs: 126 against 72 abstentions 24. [[Extreme applause from IHN.]] The motion is accepted. There was a proposal from Andrey Valchev to include a item on the agenda.. A draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 154-01-43, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs on 21 April 2021. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! With the proposed proposal, we want to give the Minister of Health in the service cabinet the opportunity to check the competition procedures and appointments, because GERB had all the political time, but last year around the pandemic prevented them from implementing the procedures and, on the other hand, the month of March hastened, creating conditions for new tensions in the system in leading hospitals, there were even protests. That's why I'm making this offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u44	Thank you. Please, voting mode. Vote 226 MPs: 154 against 70 abstentions 2. The motion is accepted. There was a proposal from Zhivko Tabakov for inclusion as a point of the Draft Decision to reduce the basic monthly remuneration of the MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, heads of state and executive agencies and members of the political offices. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u45	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, we are voting on several proposals. I am impressed that we have come out of reality and the events that are going on in the country. Some colleagues may not have understood that the BSP is returning the mandate for forming a government today. Parliament is most likely ending this week, if not this next one. Here we are looking at new committees of inquiry, the Code of Social Security, reduction of salaries, we will not receive salaries as of next week. I don't know what we're doing here.! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] It's very ridiculous what's happening. There are really some things that this Parliament could decide, even though I see there is no time. There will be no second reading of these laws! Judicial reform is being proposed here, social reform, some fundamental changes, provided that we all know that we will not meet next week and there will be no second reading of these laws! What are we doing here?! We've hit the agenda with some points. If Mrs. Ninova had made a government, I understand there's some activity going on here, but we're obviously in an election campaign here and we're making Parliament a laughingstock, excuse me! That's not good. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. You are welcome to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u47	Unfortunately, I couldn't get Mr. Bikov's line. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I'm basically speaking. Dear colleagues, this application came from me in the hopes and attitudes of being supported by you. I can express thousands of reasons in my desire, but I think that one of the main reasons, no matter what the time of the National Assembly is until the day after tomorrow or today: let us not forget the biggest discontent and the institution with the lowest rating of the Bulgarian National Assembly. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] One of the people's greatest dissatisfaction is precisely the high remuneration of the Bulgarian MPs. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That is why I believe, colleagues, that on days like these, when business is on its knees, we are in social and economic crisis, all people who are disadvantaged live on the poverty threshold, we as MPs must make a response from this House that we can be solidarity with Bulgarian citizens. I will therefore rely on your support to get on the agenda and listen to the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u48	Thank you. Please, voting mode. [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] What line? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] No, he presented his proposal. [[(Reply from the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov: I have a proposal too!]] They voted 113 MPs: 60, against 4, abstention 49. The motion is accepted. Actually, it's not 121. There's no quorum. [[Noise, cheer and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Why is the system taking into account the proposal in this way?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go, Mr. Tabakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u49	Madam President, I'd like a re-vote. Colleagues, it's about the MP's salary. I'm asking for more activity. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Tabakov. Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u51	I'm making a counterproposal, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will tell you why there should be no revoting. First of all, because everyone voted and this is not relevant, there is no motive for revoting. But the most important thing is this: this National Assembly cannot predict what the MPs will do in the next because our salaries will cease to be taken either in two or five or seven days at the latest. And with that decision, we'll say... [[GERB-SDS lines]] But you may not be inside this National Assembly, I may not be in the other National Assembly. When the other National Assembly comes, the MPs will look at this point and decide not to receive salaries. In the morning before entering - ten clubs a goal and so on! [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I can only draw attention to the fact that, after all, the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly is in the Rules of Procedure and not in such decisions. I'm putting the proposal in motion. They voted 102 MPs: 55 against 7, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u53	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Why did I vote against? Look, this wild populism sometimes... Maxim Gorky has been called to explain to the poor people that shit is not a vice, but Gogol has said it can be a sin. With this populism... Colleagues, I was suggesting that we do something else. Because you're people-lovers, I don't know how long you've been up, but I suggest that anyone who wants to become a member of parliament should import 1,000 levs. "No salary, the President " 3000 BGN, and the Vice-Presidents of 2000 BGN Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Proposal for inclusion on the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Aid Act, with entry No 154 01-30 of 20 April 2021, importer Minko Angelov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u55	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please include on the agenda of the weekly program the Personal Aid Act "A proposal of the people of "The System kills us" to return the old law so that people with disabilities can receive the necessary personal assistants. This is particularly important, you know, because these people need help, personal assistants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Please, voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 141, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. And the last proposal for inclusion of a item on the agenda made by Maxim Genchev: Bill for Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences, No 154-01-32, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2021. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u57	Madam President, honourable colleagues, brothers and sisters! My proposal is related to an addition to the Law on Measures in support of the business of self-insuring persons and households. Please consider it on Friday. This is important. Let's work for the people, for those who expect us to work and work. What I have been looking at for the second week is what makes me think that we often forget the meaning of the oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u58	What exactly does the bill involve?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u59	Thank you. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u60	My card staying here brings me back, thank God...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u61	Mr. Genchev, we're in voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u62	Mrs. Karayancheva, Kardzhali special...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u63	Mr. Genchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u64	...we'll talk about this...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u65	What exactly does the bill include and...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u66	They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. There is no quorum, so the proposal is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] How would that be accepted? How will it be accepted if there is no [[Noise and lines.]] Don't look at what it says on...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u67	121 is the quorum, don't look at the computer. The quarm is 121.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u68	We're moving on to point one of the program for today... [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Manolova, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u69	What are we arguing about? 121 is the quorum! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u70	Do you want a re-vote? Okay. Please, re-election mode. They voted 145 MPs: 143, none, abstention 2. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. Who wants a procedure? Mr. Alexandrov, come in. Affidavit? Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In connection with tomorrow's National Holiday, May 6, Gergyovden, Day of Bravery and Holiday of the Bulgarian Army, I will read a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of the party. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, tomorrow the country and the people will celebrate the Day of Bravery and the professional celebration of the Bulgarian Army. Founded 141 years ago by Prince Alexander I Batenberg on 17 April 1880. The Order of Valor was the first order of restored and free Bulgaria, which became a symbol of the military duty, courage and sacrifice for the freedom of the Fatherland. The unification of the Order celebration with the religious tribute of the Holy Martyr George the Victorious, patron of the army, carried out in 1891 by a decree of Prince Ferdinand, marks the beginning of the celebration by the entire army and forever binds the most valuable quality of the wars of Bulgaria with the name of the saint who embodys it. The perversions of time in certain periods of history imposed other institutional decisions, but they could never tear apart that invisible but strong, such as a granite link between the sacred works of St. George and the immense exploits of the army, the army in the name of Bulgaria in the wars of national unity, participation in the final stage of World War II in Europe, participation in the missions and operations of maintaining peace or in the periods of peaceful construction of the Bulgarian army, as the main pillar of statehood. Shipka, Slivnitsa and Pirot, Luleburgas, Bunarchar, Lozengrad, Edirne and Chataldja, Kalimani and Kresna, Nis, Kosovo Field with Pristina, Krivolakalan, Doiran and the entire Thessaloniki front, Dobrudzha and Tutrakan, Stracin, Srem, Drava and Moore, there is no doubt that these immense and eloquent exploits of the army and army and the memory carried over the centuries are also related to Ongala, to Aheloy and Klokotnitsa, with Andrianopol, Belasitsa and Rusokastro. This strong Bulgarian military political tradition, built in times of upliftment and disappointment, wealth and poverty, at times of glorious victories and days of national destruction, has risen thanks to the unbreakable resistance, toughness, creativity and hard work of our people or the patriotic self-denial of his sons and daughters, who remained forever in the pantheon of bravery and immortality. For a political party, there is such a people suppliing the Bulgarian military tradition is a matter of debt, so today, on the eve of May 6...................... the Day of Valour and the Festival of the Bulgarian Army, from this highest tribune in the country, the tribune of the National Assembly I declare building and maintaining a stable, reliable and effective defense with model and high-tech armed forces is a foundation of our defence policy and an integral part of the management decisions for continuous modernisation of the country, defending the national interests and prosperity of the people. Our belonging to the collective defence system is a condition for the effectiveness of our defence policy, ensuring our external security and protecting our territorial integrity. Along with the existence of NATO's huge political, economic and military potential, it requires us to continuously develop national defence capabilities and to set an even more example of Union solidarity. Filling with the content of our strategic partnerships, our contribution to collective military planning and our participation in the European Union's common defence policy and security, without prejudice to the collective defence system, is a commitment we stand for. The continuity in the defence policy is important to us and will be maintained where visible results are achieved. However, in areas where unseemly successes are reported, we will be relentless. The professional principle of the construction of the armed forces is not subject to doubt. The deepening of professionalization in terms of qualification, training and preparation of personnel, for which, as well as the assembly of formations, is an objective for which we will work until the Bulgarian Army achieves the comparable indicators and criteria of the best achievements in modern military science and practice. The financing of the defence and the comprehensive provision of the Bulgarian Army are responsibility and debt, which is guaranteed by a reasonable policy in the context of its entire balanced development of the country, the implementation of the state commitment to reach 2% of the gross domestic product and to prevent artificial opposition of one sector from the economic, financial, social and social life of another. Military and civilian defence officers are our top priority. The wages are determined by the burden of everyday life in the service and limited civil rights. There is such a people that will fight and impose a preeminent upliftment of the social status of the personnel to ensure their full commitment and energy to the country's protection service. Today, we state that in the context of a complex situation, unforeseen circumstances and asymmetric threats, hope, willpower and ability to understand the situation more quickly, to decide faster and to act more quickly so that the armed forces and the Bulgarian Army within the framework of their constitutional obligations to respond to the challenges need to be used to the highest extent the existing capabilities, accelerated to acquire new ones in the process of modernisation and re-arming, and all of them in an unparalleled way to apply together with our allies. The Parliamentary Group of the Party There is such a people who wish the arrival of the soldiers, the sailors, the sergeants and the officers, the civilians, the veterans, the military of the reserve and the reserve, the thousands of men and women who connected their lives and careers with the Bulgarian army. Military service is a calling. We wish them from the heart and soul health and well-being, professional successes, will and energy to overcome the challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. On behalf of the DPS parliamentary group, I give the floor to Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The 45th National Assembly will obviously remain in history not only with its shortest biography, but also with the most active form of populism. It is this populism that causes and causes the huge number of bills and other acts of the National Assembly, without regard to consequences, without consistency, without an assessment of the impact on the country's budget in such a complex crisis situation, including a political crisis. But the main thing remains the short biography, and it is just that it puts all the political forces in terms of election campaign. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will once again approach it wisely and in principle. We will not introduce bills with election goals because we are interested in the consequences and impact of these laws on the election budget. It is too irresponsible at a time of political instability, vague budgetary parameters, to set such traps before the future government, regardless of who it will be. We are interested because we all know that if we run out of money in the budget, the bill will be paid by all of us - Bulgarian citizens. We continue to argue that before the National Assembly and all politicians there are much more important issues to trace the way for solving the major crises related to the pandemic, poverty, the economy in turmoil, the compromised state budget and so on. Unfortunately, despite our analysis and reading of the results of the 45th National Assembly elections, which required change through dialogue, there is no will for such a change in this Parliament. There is no political will to change and that should be known by Bulgarian citizens. After the constitution of the National Assembly, based on the constitutional order, we have expressed support in the name of solving the problems of the citizens, so pressing problems, whose solution, if postponed, makes improving the state of affairs in the country quite difficult. This meant mostly two things: without taking part in the power, to support a government of change in case they presented a cabinet with a clear vision of the country's development. We gave a clear sign that it is time for a new model of conduct and governance, based on the dialogue in the National Assembly and between the institutions, implementing a management programme for achieving the country's priority objectives. Political time required more responsible behavior and decisive action. The word is not the individual parties, but their programs. I hope this moment hasn't gone forever, I hope we've learned from the lesson we've all received. Madam President, honourable Members! In our election campaign, our motto was: the reboot of statehood. For ten years or more, we at the DPS have been talking about normality in politics. We keep repeating that governance should be based on a programme, with priorities, with a clear vision for the country's development. Today's situation is quite disturbing. In the National Assembly parties do not talk. Each party has set out to run an election campaign. It is irresponsible to introduce pre-election bills. From this he loses always Parliamentaryism, loses statehood, loses democracy, eventually lose all Bulgarian citizens. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We at the DPS report that in today's state of affairs, even before the start of the election campaign and the next elections, we all need to make it clear: after the upcoming early elections, it is imperative that there be such a National Assembly that can broadcast and an active cabinet. We call on all parties in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly to put aside the party interests and to conduct such a campaign that does not create conditions for an even greater crisis after the upcoming early parliamentary elections,... without forgetting that where the dialogue ends, there is also the parliamentary democracy! Let the election campaign meet arguments and ideas from our party programs with clear and real action plans! Let us never forget that politicians are about solving people's problems, society's problems, not our own personal or party interests! Dialogue is an integral part of the democratic process and there is no alternative. This requires responsible behavior and responsible decisions from us in terms and on the basis of dialogue. We have to do this to be calm about tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u74	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The fact is that we are in an election campaign, which is expressed not only, but so makes me very impressed, in a startling stream of lies that the acting prime minister has obviously set up by the old writer's law But I'm really not gonna deal with these horrific lies. One topic with which Mr. Borisov speculated, however, is the attitude towards security, the attitude towards the geopolitical orientation of the country. And the truth is that this long painful farewell to his rule will end, but we will have to be able to continue on these extremely important topics to work on. In this sense, it is not bad if someone in GERB has any sense of self-thinking at all, to ask the Prime Minister to stop exploiting these topics. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Speak for yourself! "]] In this regard, and in view of the upcoming celebration of valor and of the Bulgarian wars and the people who have dedicated themselves to the defence, I would like to announce that today "Democratic Bulgaria" submitted a draft declaration of the National Assembly, oriented towards the entire complex of problems facing the security of the country. And in view of the upcoming extremely important events that will take place in the period when there will be no National Assembly, that is, it is important that this National Assembly find a way to really achieve at least on this subject consensus, to bring out beyond speculation the clearly muddy campaign that lies ahead and to provide a clear political framework, a clear political consensus on these topics for the period in which there will be no parliament and where we will have a caretaker government, and a campaign will be conducted. What is to come is that a NATO summit will be held on 14 July, which will adopt a mandate to develop a new strategic concept of the Alliance, based on NATO's vision. Naturally, the security problems related to our region will be at the centre. In May, the President will participate at the B9 summit. These are the countries from NATO's eastern flank from Estonia to Bulgaria, in Bucharest. There is also a edition of the Three Seas initiative to be held. For all this, we propose that the National Assembly adopt a declaration expressing a clear Euro-Atlantic consensus on deepening our integration, our contribution to NATO, as a platform, the real platform, for developing Bulgarian defence capabilities and Bulgarian defence, and a platform for overall modernisation, not only of Bulgarian defence, but also of Bulgarian science, of innovation, including business. An extremely important topic with which I would hope to find a real dialogue, to find a real basis for support, and that is why we chose on the eve of May 6th, joining what our fellow Member said from "There is such a people" and congratulating the Bulgarian servicemen, to offer this particular document, which I hope is the assistance of all parliamentary forces, as quickly as possible to reach the vote and be widely supported. Also in this regard, I thank Mrs. Miteva and the Presidency for moving the agreement between Bulgaria and Romania to ratification. It was brought up as a result of a question by the "Democratic Bulgaria", a meeting which our MPs held at the Ministry of Defence, and therefore I really wish when it comes to defence, when it comes to our belonging to NATO, that we do not enter into the usual stream of lies and minds, but to be based on concrete actions that really trace a much higher degree of ambition of our belonging to these structures than we have seen so far. Otherwise, after seeing GERB in front of the Pigeon, true Mrs. Zaharieva didn't know why she wasn't there, it was her place there. Now I expect that tomorrow Mr. Borisov will appear in front of the Turkish Stream and start protesting against him as well. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I hope you will support this document anyway. Thank you. [[Applause from DB, ICN, ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Anyone else who'd like to make a statement? I won't. Moving on to the first point of our program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR POLITICAL PARTIES. Please have the chairman of the committee report on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u77	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the National Assembly. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties, No 154-01-10, submitted by Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs on 15 April 2021. At its meeting held on 21 April 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties, No 154-01-10, submitted by Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs on 15 April 2021. The bill was presented by Mrs. Miteva, who pointed out that it proposes the amount of the state subsidy for a real vote, which received the party or coalition, to be 1 BGN, by stating that with a reduction of the amount of the state subsidy of 8 BGN. 1 BGN. aim to respect the will of Bulgarian citizens expressed in the national referendum held on 6 November 2016. With the adoption of the proposed amendment, budget spending will be substantially reduced and a legal opportunity will be created to carry out an in-depth analysis that will serve to form a new model for financing political parties and coalitions. The aim is to develop criteria for determining the size of the state subsidy to meet international standards and ensure equality of parties and coalitions. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 4 votes..... 4 votes............................................................................................... and 5 votes................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Vassilev. Please, now let's do the disinfection as agreed. While it is running, I would like to make one clarification about some exercising in the media and social networks and others today in the Chamber. Rules on the organization and activities of the National Assembly are law. This law does not provide for a procedure for a third vote, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I insist, and I propose that the MPs in the next Parliament provide it. There's a degree of flexibility I'm not capable of applying. From this point of view, the Rules must be respected, moreover, that there was no consensus in the House on such votes. We are now moving on to the submission of an opinion by the importer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u79	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u80	Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, a very bad practice you introduce into the current Presidency and the leadership of the National Assembly to speak up from the microphones. Basically...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u82	You did it all the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u83	Well, that we've done it... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u84	Please, Mr. Svilensky. Let's listen to Mr. Glauchev and move on to the discussion later. I accept criticism. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u85	On this occasion, we agreed that this does not apply in kindergarten, you can only apply the argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u86	Please, Mr. Glauchev, proceed to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u87	So I ask you and you that it is true that the remaining period of this National Assembly is short, but there is established practice when someone wants the floor of those in charge of the meeting to come down to the stand and someone else to take over during that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u88	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. I accept the recommendation. If it has to happen again, I'll follow it. Come on in, Mr. Tsonev, and let's move on to the discussion later. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not waste the time of the National Assembly, but I am obliged to say the following in the manner of conduct: you really should have taken either a personal explanation or whatever procedure you find under the Rules. But let alone that, essentially, the degree of flexibility is determined by a vote, is not determined by discretion, first. Secondly, decisions in this House are not taken by consensus, but by majority. If you had put Mrs. Manolova out and you said to her, "I take your word." Why did you take her word for it? No one understood. You didn't let her do the procedure. More precisely, we understood.. because you did not want to launch this procedure, which by voting the National Assembly could decide on the basis of the Constitutional decision to hold a third vote. The question remains the way we put it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. That doesn't change my position. You're welcome to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will inform you of the reasons for the Law amending the Law on Political Parties. The Law amending the Law on Political Parties proposes a reduction in the amount of the state subsidy for a real vote of 8 BGN. 1 BGN. The proposal aims to respect the will of the Bulgarian citizens, expressed in the national referendum produced on 6 November 2016. In this referendum, 2 516 957 citizens responded with a third question: Do you support the annual state subsidy granted to finance the political parties and coalitions to be one lev for a valid vote in the last parliamentary elections? The proposed proposal is a first step towards bringing the will of the Bulgarian citizens who expressed support for the referendum proposal by a huge majority. With the adoption of the proposed amendment of the Law of Bulgarian citizens will accordingly be spared and significantly reduced the amount, but in fact the amount that will be saved, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, from the reduction of the subsidy is 21 million. Twenty-six thousand. BGN 691. Personally, for me and my colleagues from a political party there is such a people and our parliamentary group will be extremely interesting and challenging to monitor the debates on this proposal. It will be very interesting how all political forces in the parliament will vote on a fact that all Bulgarian citizens will see because of the direct transmission of the debate and the vote on the Bulgarian national television and Bulgarian national radio. [[noise and lines]] Dear Bulgarian citizens, please watch this debate carefully and the subsequent vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u92	Thank you, Mr. Stanev. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Mr. Rashidov, you go first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Apparently populism is going well. I offered almost as a joke, but not as a joke: at all, to enter parliament, to pay. It's for the best. [[Radio.]] And as for popularity, your leader has become quite rich lately while making fun of people. Please give a Ferrari to the Bulgarian people! [[Radio.]] It wouldn't be bad. You've made a lot of money. That's how the lice had a saying. First of all, this populism isn't gonna work. Secondly, there is no such parliament in the world. It's a serious job to like someone. You and the show couldn't like each other, you want money to like each other. [[Applause.]] Your smile is world-renowned "Stanislav Stratiev" will envy you because you are writers to Dragoman, from there to there is Jay Leno.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Are there any lines? Here's your cue, Mr. Danailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Actually, it's about trust. Do you know why this is about trust? It is not important or less important that we will save 85 million leva
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u96	I thought it was $21 million.!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u97	If you multiply by four because it's four years, it makes 85 million leva. However it is simple mathematics and the accounts are not very complex.. twenty-one and a half million a year multiplied by four makes 85 million. [[Noise and lines.]] Four and a half years is the normal term.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u98	Don't engage in dialogue! Proceed, Mr. Danailov. Colleagues, please, not from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u99	It is extremely important that two and a half million people voted to be reduced, but the most important thing is that there is an examination of the way parties are financed in the European Union and how much confidence is in them. When less than 40% of party revenues are generated by the state subsidy, confidence in parliament and in parties is extremely high. It is extremely high because then politicians are really trying to earn people's trust, trying to make policy be about people. This is why it is extremely important to reduce the party subsidy to bring the politicians back to the people. It has nothing to do with populism, it has to do with work. That's why to gain people's trust, vote for a lev grant for a real vote. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Danailov. Second line? I can't see. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Rashidov? Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u101	My dear colleague, you didn't realize we were offering zero. Don't you agree?! What do you need that money for?! Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u102	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mrs. Kirova, come in. [[Heckling]] We usually take turns, but there was no other request.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a person who has actively participated in the referendum and who, unlike a right-wing part of the Chamber, took part in the debates and discussions that were organised in the national media on this issue, I have heard all arguments in the direction of what should be the subsidy; why should not be a lev and what could happen if it is a lev. Personally, I and the GERB-SDS group will support a grant of a lev, not to be populist, but because that was the will of the citizens expressed in the referendum in 2016. However, another question is whether it is right to first reduce the subsidy of a lev before proposing legislative changes and a way in which transparent funding of the parties, when this subsidy becomes one lev, because here we have a political formation out! For this reason, we should make it possible to ensure transparency in funding before deciding what the amount of the subsidy should be. Otherwise, in the sense of this election campaign, which is not clear why it is going on national media and it is not clear why the tribune of the National Assembly is being used someone to campaign and to flood us with populism. Yes, it is great, we will vote on a lev grant.! To you, to the speaker, I want to say something that I think is extremely important. 21 million times 10 is 210 million. Perhaps we will save a billion, however, what damage we will do if we have not previously approved rules and a way in which parties and political entities are clearly financed, because we have a Constitutional Court decision which canceled last week the funding with donations from legal entities as it was adopted before, the funding was unlimited, that is to say, the parties could also be owned by some legal person. Since it has been cancelled, we need to think carefully about how political life will continue in the country and what transparency this will give in the political process. I suggest you think about it. And as for populism, it is very easy to raise your hand and vote. I guess you don't realize what happens next. If you had been, ladies and gentlemen of the scenario involved in political debates in the national media, you might have heard a lot of counterarguments, but you didn't hear them because you had closed yourself on your own television or on your own show. I don't think that's right. I don't think this is the time to solve the problem this way. I will finally ask just one question, and that concludes: how many of the political entities here have returned those subsidies that had taken over at the time when the amount was changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kirova. Is there any line to that statement? Here's a line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The law on political parties is very clear and precisely showing how they can be financed. Yes, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court and it is in the direction that political parties cannot be financed by legal entities. So much for the corporate vote. The remaining pillars of funding for political parties have not in any way been removed. The fact that the subsidy will be reduced to one lev does not mean that political parties cannot be financed by private donations, as well as by membership imports. If you look at the reports of the political parties, you will see that colleagues on the left have received an essential part of their income from donations from membership imports, as well as a party. Sorry, GERB-SDS reports show that nearly 92% of the revenues are from a state subsidy. All parties can try to gain greater confidence from their members and from their voters and thus to finance them. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u106	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Another line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u107	There is such a people-only funding from membership imports because it has not been parliamentary represented and there is no way to have funding from the state budget. As far as trust is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, trust is measured in elections with votes and voters. The trust is not based on whether the membership is one or 10 leva; it is not based on whether you are obliged as a regional organization to import 10 000 leva to make a platform.. It is not clear where you will collect them and they are definitely not accounted for, but on what real policies and programs you offer; how you propose to solve the problems of Bulgarian citizens; what is your attitude towards the regions; what is your attitude towards health; what is the attitude towards the Bulgarian citizens and the state to have stable and normal governance and how much the responsibility you are willing to take. And the responsibility is assumed as follows: it is made government and it is managed, then we talk on an equal footing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u108	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kirova. The word is Yavor Bozhankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I refer specifically to the importers, your consistent position is this, and we are in no way criticising it, but also our consistent position is that this legislative approach is detrimental to the democratic process and political pluralism. In essence, in your motives, you have affected the aspect of the...... the............................................................................................. And the new elections are certainly much more expensive than funding political parties, but democracy is an expensive thing. This cannot be an argument in the current situation. The lack of a consistent policy, you are quoting several Greco reports, the Venice Commission of 2019, as well as pointing out that further steps will be taken. You also point out that a broad public discussion and study of practices in other countries is needed, so-called good practices according to the Venice Commission. In fact, in this bill you point out that the influence of corporate and business interests must be prevented. But the current bill does not settle this matter with any hypothesis and in fact they remain open. There are no opinions as there is no time for that. And like the majority vote, which is also your consistent position that you are defending, the big case is do we have time to introduce adequate regulation. Here the answer is no. The retreat from this is not a retreat from election promises, but is actually a retreat from populism. If there were expectations to you that you would be performing any show in Parliament, you have actually proved that you are a responsible political force and are at the height of the current situation. I would therefore like to draw attention to you and call on you in this bill to follow the same approach. The Venice Commission in 2019 stated the following, which is still up to date, because the case is absolutely identical. It recommends that the amendments be repealed because, as a strong motive, it points out that a full impact assessment should be included, that adequate time should be given for all stages of the subsequent legislative process to be cleared. Such an impact assessment is obviously lacking here and cannot be made within these deadlines. This is rather a legislative approach of GERB, which introduced almost all legislative initiatives without impact assessment, but also a motive that if we fight the management of GERB, we cannot use the same legislative techniques because we will get the same result. Also, the Venice Commission in its opinion says that a limitation on donations from private individuals should be introduced in order not to put a party at the service of wealthy interests. Such regulation is lacking here. Points out that the short-terms do not allow the participants concerned and non-governmental organisations to express opinions, even if adequate public consultation is held in the committees concerned; This is up to date. Such opinions, opinions, discussions have not been held. It is not recommended, and this is particularly important, a change in the funding mechanism months before the elections. The Code of Good Practice of the Venice Commission reads: The stability of the Law is crucial for trust in the electoral process................................... and I believe that this is another argument that we should not legislate as GERB did in the 44th Parliament. Point 23 of the Report, which you are referring to, states that the amendments deprive the parties of the planned annual subsidies that they reasonably expected. This is how parties are damaged, which have recently incurred great costs, as well as those who do not have significant savings. The only party that has significant savings in this House, we know who it is and the present proposal would be of great service. I'm not surprised they support it. Public funding in the report not only of the Venice Commission, but of all the prestigious NGOs is pointed out as an instrument for preventing corruption. The sudden nature of the changes hinders political pluralism because parties do not have enough time to adapt. In conclusion, colleagues, we hold on to the principle of cost-orientedness. In the opinion of the Venice Commission, they criticise the opaqueness on which the funds are spent, not that the subsidy is small. Here we can ask the question: why not 10 pennies, why not five levs or three levs? Because such analysis is not a legal analysis of cost orientation. There is such a principle laid down in the Law on Legislative Acts that each fee must correspond to actual costs incurred. I also believe that this is relevant to the financing of political parties. The subsidy cannot be a source of profit, it cannot lie anywhere in the accounts and carry interest or someone to accumulate dividends from a state subsidy, but at the same time it must guarantee the democratic process. And this is the big debate for which we do not have time in this National Assembly. The key word is................................................................................................ In this regard, we will make our proposals between first and second readings, but we are calling for a professional, calm and reasoned debate on the subject. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u110	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. First line, Mr. Letifov, second line, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Bojankov! We are having an extremely serious debate and Mr. Bojankov presented the report of the Venice Commission and some arguments that I agree with in principle. I don't have much of a point. I have one remark to which I would rather plead to you to stand by your word and to your political decision, because I will remind and talk about cost-orientedness when we finance political parties. Yes, one thing is clear that political parties must be financed. The question is, how? This is clear about the Constitutional Court's decision, but here we are talking about exactly how to finance the parties, how much the state to take over this part, and in fact the key is in this cost-orientedness. My question is: how in the 44th parliament BSP and GERB reached the figure eight BGN per vote after Mr. Bojankov admitted that there was no analysis? GERB and BSP gathered in the 44th parliament to decide eight leva out loud for the big parties that suit them, but they are not cost-oriented because the small parties do not agree with them. In this case, I have no idea how to pick a fight. Today we are witnessing that there are six parties. In the next parliament how many will be, the Bulgarian people will decide. The question is: how much money is needed cost-oriented after analysis, which will enable all political entities to do their political activity democratically, transparently and without dependence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Bojankov, in the opinions of the Venice Commission, the OSCE, international practice, including the Constitutional Court's decision last week, which has not yet entered into force, clearly distinguishes between public funding and the amount of the state subsidy. The Constitutional Court's ruling clearly states that yes, public funding must be there, but the amount of this funding and the state subsidy is a matter of legislative appropriateness, entirely within the competence of the National Assembly. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Third line? I can't see. Do you want a hole, Mr. Bojankov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear replicators, this was also part of the construction of my statement that we should not return to the practices of 44 these Parliaments. Then we did an analysis, according to our political power adequate. How adequate it has been to date for small or large political entities, but this is a practice that the 44th Parliament should not be proud of. Then we remember that here in this room everyone went down the downward curve of populism. Minimum wage, minimum pension, zero leva salary, zero leva subsidy, respectively months in which political parties went through turbulence, a number of negative opinions of international organizations, lack of impact assessment. In general, populism marked the 44th National Assembly, and I hoped that in the 45th at least he would be absent or within reasonable limits. It is therefore not an argument that something in the 44th National Assembly was a practice, and its rating, and its results prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. I give the floor to Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, several important points have been highlighted in the presentation of the bill by the importers. First, a call was made to the Bulgarian citizens to watch carefully. I also make such a call: watch carefully now to see who is consistent and honest in his position and who is not. And secondly, it was said to be a matter of trust. And I'll come back to that. Two very important points that I remember from the speech, I think it belonged to Mr. Philip Stanev. The position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is extremely consistent, very clearly argued and very accurate. However, I will recall it because of the colleagues who are new in this Chamber. Firstly, we were involved in forming public opinion, we were involved in the debate at the beginning of this century: should we move on to public financing of political parties, or should we remain as it was in the first years of the democratic process, that is, without any public funding? The debate lasted more than a year and not only politicians participated in it, journalists and political scientists and sociologists included in it, and the general opinion was that funding should be available. Moreover, we were one of the importers of the introduction of this model. Of course, this subsidy was then increased in the years. Perhaps in the years of serious surpluses and in the years of serious economic growth we have gone one or two ideas beyond the normal level of this subsidy, but this does not in any way change neither our position nor the need for political parties to be financed by public funds. By the way, before I return to our position on the referendum and then, to say that the Constitutional Court's decision in question has a very interesting paragraph. Mr. Zarkov, thank you for sharpening my attention on him. I'd also like to meet him in the hall. The Constitutional Court says: The public funding of these parties from the state up to a certain amount should therefore be considered constitutionally due. The importers will immediately say: "Yes, one lev is this size. " However, here our opinions differ because we do not think that with one lev we really finance any costs of political parties. When we have more time and the debate goes to the point, let's say, on the second reading, we will say the arguments for the costs because we have done this account. I'm addressing Mr. Bojankov. He said the principle should be covered. Yes, we have done this account, and by feathers what is most needed for a party that has structures in all municipalities of the country, but this is another topic. We think that this amount of one lev is a mimicre of public funding. It does not cover any expenses and is absolutely unnecessary. It's really unnecessary. In terms of our position. When the referendum was announced, during the election campaign we introduced our voters to our views and they did not vote. See the results in the areas where the DPS is well represented voter - there are no votes for the referendum. Perhaps because we have explained our position honestly, clearly and honestly that there should be such funding and that it is cheaper for the budget, and that it is healthier for the democratic process. Ten or fifteen votes, I do not know how many, did not reach the referendum decision to be mandatory. I dare say that this is due to our open, honest and clear position and the will of our constituents to follow us. With regard to the referendum, with regard to the position of the DPS, it is unchanged. There must be public funding, there must be size, there must be debate on whether it should be only such a principle, because in Germany the funding is one euro out loud, but there are two more pillars - two very powerful pillars of funding for political parties. By calculating and...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u118	Foundations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u119	Yeah, sure. The funds, which represent the relevant political family and the building fund, fully from the state, and construction, and renovation, and absolutely everything. There are dozens, hundreds of millions of dollars of the budget. Here from this tribune we have heard many times? Did you know that in Germany is one euro? No, we know that in Germany is not one euro, but much more. By dividing the entire funding, we've done it and this, to tell you the truth, comes somewhere around 60 euros. The question is clear, we must also approach the referendum with respect, because many Bulgarian citizens voted, but we must approach it with integrity. If we go back to the old principle, I end with this, the political parties will either be financed from the budget, or their funding will be clearly allowed up to a certain amount, by whom, how, transparent and under the control of state institutions, or will be financed opaque with the respective dependencies, because there is no other way. Whatever control mechanisms are imposed, costs are costs. They need to be raised funds. If we do not decide and provide for sufficiently clear mechanisms, sufficiently clear public funding to cover the basic needs of the democratic process, in which political entities are a major player, so to speak, we will move on to that funding from the 1990s and no one can stop it, neither the Ministry of Interior nor the DANS nor anyone. Everyone in this room knows it well. Let's not experiment on the democratic process in the country. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u120	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Atanas Slavov from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u121	Madam President, colleagues! The problem we are discussing today is indeed extremely important for our democracy, because it is not just a matter of fulfilling the solution of the referendum four years ago. There's definitely political play here. If colleagues from GERB wanted to have a grant of one lev, there would have been. They had a majority in the previous parliament, they could have fulfilled the decision in the referendum. With regard to the "Democratic Bulgaria" we have always stated that the subsidy is a guarantee of a pluralistic democratic process, given that until now we have been extra-parliamentary formation and have not used any lev public funding. That's three years. It is possible to carry out legitimate political activities, to represent people without obtaining public funding, but it is very difficult, colleagues. It is no accident that the Constitutional Court in the decision last week made it very clear that public funding is a constitutional standard. Correctly Mrs. Miteva said that the Constitutional Court explicitly stated that the size should be determined by the National Assembly, but I still, reading the constitutional decision carefully, remain under the impression that the constitutional standard is a significant part, the activities of political parties should be financed publicly, because we are at the stage of the so-called constitutional science streamlined parliamentaryism where parties have a constitutional function. Constitutional function to obtain a mandate, constitutional function within parliamentary democracy. The parties are the unique mediator between civil society and the state and this is also written in the Constitutional Court's decision and therefore public funding is due. At this stage of constitutionalisation of the role of political parties, it is absurd to leave parties in captivity to corporate, oligarchic interests. Unfortunately, this is happening at the moment with existing public funding. The most important debate is not whether the subsidy is one lev or more. The important debate is how to win the parties from the paws of oligarchy. In order for this to happen, we need the D.A.'s office, we need special services, and we need an independent court. Let us not shift the problem, it is not public funding, but the dependence of certain political entities on oligarchy and on some of them even the mafia. Colleagues, I and Democratic Bulgaria will not support one lev because the issue is principled and it is about the health of Bulgarian democracy. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u122	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Tosko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u123	It is very nice how to talk about principle and ignore the will of two and a half million Bulgarian citizens. That's great! It is wonderful that this is broadcast on TV to see two and a half million Bulgarian citizens making political parties all kinds of shmismortz. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "What is the word in Bulgarian? "]] So they don't do what they want. Just so you know, colleagues, there are ten BGN of membership. And is it populism for you to take money from the people who are our members? Some of you have two leva a year and you support yourself from people's money?! The problem of supporting parties is the problem of parties. And people said how much they would give to support parties, and that's one lev out loud. Everything else is greed! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u124	Thank you. A hole? Do you have statements or do you have an asshole? [[Reply by MP Mitko Stykov: "Replica. "]] Line up, come on in. Just to list those who have expressed their desire to speak: Mr. Krum Zarkov, Mr. Rumen Hristov, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Antoaneta Tsoneva, Jayhan Ibryamov, Tatiana Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! You have heard that the political party GERB will support the subsidy for a lev. Colleagues, since morning, we've only been listening to populist import, populist speeches. Yes, you are obviously already in an election campaign, but when we talk about responsibility, when we talk about consistency, colleagues from "There is such a people" you have shown that you are neither responsible nor consistent. What you had as your intention and as your wish, you could have done it by taking responsibility and forming a government, not giving back the mandate! Stop this behavior that someone else is wrong with you! You're talking, accusing the political party GERB. Political party GERB is a responsible political force! [[Noise and lines.]] Political party GERB upholds its promises and fulfills them. Colleagues, you could have formed a government and fulfilled all those promises you made to your voters. Only it's one thing to do a show! Show's over! The truth has come out! Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u126	Thank you, Mr. Stykov. - What's the line? I won't. A hole? I can't see. Mr. Krum Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u127	Mrs. President, Mrs. Doncheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I begin with sincere congratulations to those MPs who are trying to hold the debate at a high level and show some courage, saying against this proposal, as it takes courage to speak against something which, obviously, is gathering great public support. This is a topic that enjoys great public support. This was also a fact, and it showed up in the referendum. Yet it seems to me that this should be done and to say why the passage, the abrupt limitation, the actual elimination of the state subsidy is actually the worse option than it is now? They are right, they have the full right of "There is such a people" to remind the vote in 2016 and those 2 million. And 500,000. Bulgarians and more who voted on this issue. They are right that they should not be ignored. We owe these people precisely to explain to them exactly what this is about and how we have read their vote correctly. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we are sitting in 2016, a referendum is held with three issues together with presidential elections. For understandable reasons, the referendum does not concentrate as much attention as the presidential elections and a penal vote is received. Punitive to whom? Criminal against the parties that ruled during this time. From 1991 to 2016. In 2016...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 million and 500,000 people, and perhaps much more remember the phrases from the beginning of the transition: You have no doubt, honourable importers, that if the question contained not one lev but three levs or five levs, the result would most likely be the same if it were presented as something that would sober up these political forces? There is also 2016 accumulated a specific direct disappointment to the political party GERB. Then she rules with her second term. And that's a penalty vote against her! He, by the way, also spread in the presidential campaign, when rhubarb Radev won categorically on this, on the rejection of a model of government, and this rejection makes many of us here. Now, however, what is proposed? The vote of those who wanted to punish the big parties will be used precisely in the interests of these parties! When you remove public funding and send everything to the gray sector, those who privilege corporateism, clientelism, those who are accustomed to hoarding money in this way, it is they who will be made easier. When a party is in power for a long time, it acquires levers for influence and without money, uses the state resource for its campaigns, it does not need these subsidies. These subsidies need alternatives, emerging movements, principled parties. Those who want to make politics for the sake of politics itself. Naturally, when this party, which is in power, exhibits a particular kind of cynicism, making donations with the state subsidy, holding money on a deposit, showing that this subsidy is too much. This pours the mill to those who want to reduce the subsidy, and that is understandable, but the move is wrong. This move will lead us to where we started clients, hoops from companies that finance people who then report through public procurement. This will cost the taxpayer a lot more than the twenty million and eighty people in office. You will say: "Nicely enough, you are now taking a subsidy, but that is still what they are doing. It is possible, and you are right to insist and ask the question, but this model needs to be changed, not legalized. By this law you legitimize the vicious model of politics that has been imposed over the years. You mentioned the last parliament. In the last parliament, this debate was held in the most vicious way possible. One lev subsidy that was introduced then had nothing to do with the referendum, and it was a penal action because we at the BSP requested the resignation of the finance minister, and then there were shameful scenes that ultimately led to this neither the subsidy to be reduced nor other ways of funding to be opened. And thank God the President has shown initiative, and the Constitutional Court was at its place to bring order to this issue. That order was brought in last week and it's nice to read it. It has already been mentioned that public funding is mandatory according to the Constitutional Court. Yes, the size remains to be decided by this House, but this court also very clearly tells us what the purpose of this funding is, and it is to safeguard political pluralism, or to put it more intelligible, the co-operation of a party with the state. Because when a party is in power and others are deprived of funds to function, it will grow with the state and we are not far from that moment. I conclude that the history of the financing of political parties in Bulgaria in the last 30 years is not poor. We can learn from it, correct mistakes and see there when the debate is well developed. One thing's for sure, we don't have to go back to the '90s and there's a way to move on. Only last year were there dozens of discussions, as the topic is on the agenda of how political parties should be financed, how to make thresholds, to provide for a proportionate way of voting so that the big ones do not take too much and for the small ones not enough and so on and so forth. The solution exists. The question is: are we able to look at them cold and professionally? Because if we do not, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened before will happen with the voices of the dissatisfied. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u128	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Mr. Tosko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Today is a beautiful day for the Bulgarian voter who sees visual political hypocrisy. Here, in this Chamber, except for this part of the Chamber, which was not in parliament then, broke the law three times until they received up to eight leva subsidy. Besides, it is nice for Bulgarian citizens to know something about your party. It is not enough that there is such a large state funding, but you, as of 1 March 2021, for your headquarters at Positano (Positano) 20 did not pay your rent in the amount of 148 thousand. 180 BGN. The same did not happen to NFSB and Volja. [[(Noise and lines on the left. Replica: How much is the fence of Slavi Trifonov worth?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] That's a pretty dumb line, considering it's a private line. The truth is, you spend taxpayers' money on all kinds of bullshit. One keeps them on the vlog, the other makes party TV and then runs out of money. I'll tell you again, our membership fee is BGN 10.00. per month, and you are all here in this room trying to guard what is stolen from the Bulgarian people. It's wonderful to see you all. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Commendations: "Eee!" (Applause from IHN.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u130	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u131	Dear Mr. Zarkov, many arguments have been put forward regarding political pluralism and what harm does this offer have, but there was not really a single argumentation in your speech, and also in the previous ones, in the direction: what do people expect from us? Whether they're expecting £1,00. subsidy, BGN 0.10, will they be satisfied if there is no subsidy at all and the salaries are, as some said, to pay us to come to work, or vice versa? Bulgarian citizens expect income from us, expect fair pensions from us, expect us to update these pensions, which have not been fair for 30 years. That's when, I guess, we'd justify our party subsidies and justify the reward we get. This will be a little later on on the agenda, and we will have the opportunity to vote on it and, in fact, to justify the work in this House. Everything else is wild populism.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u132	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u133	Thank you, Madam President. My hole will be short. Dear Mr. Hadjitodorov, unfortunately, you either didn't listen or you didn't hear the statement, but that is also your right. I started by saying that it takes courage to oppose this idea, because this idea will be attacked with the arguments that you have just pointed out. Look, yes, BSP is in a difficult financial condition because last year all these issues that were raised were deliberately used against it. We had read our work on a budget, it was drastically shortened in a period of time.. and, yes, it put us to the test. But if you think we're going to go pray to some fattened businessman to pay for the electricity of Positano, you're deeply mistaken. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u134	Thank you. Are there others? I can't see. Mr. Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Christ was raised! To all of you and your families, whether you are Christians or not, be alive and well! The Union of Democratic Forces and its representatives in parliament will not support the reduction of the subsidy from eight to one lev. I'll explain why. I am aware that we are in an election campaign, I am aware that there is a direct transmission going on right now, I am aware that 2 million 516 thousand Bulgarians in the referendum voted to reduce the subsidy, but I am aware that these 2 million 516 thousand Bulgarians also requested a majority vote, which was rejected. Why are we not going to support this proposal? The Union of Democratic Forces in the last four years, for the first time in its 30-year history, was not in parliament. Maintaining a formation without a subsidy is something very difficult if there is a subsidy or there is no subsidy 1 BGN. You're talking about membership. The Union of Democratic Forces has just over 8 000 500 members, our membership imports are BGN 1. per month or 12 leva. per year, funds that are not enough for almost nothing, all the more so that non-parliamentary parties are not entitled to help in terms of offices, rents and so on. Yes, you are now taking 10 leva because you are on a wave comb, but you will come to a point when your members will not pay you 10 leva, think about it. You set an example with Germany. Mr. Tsonev correctly explained that there are several pillars for funding in Germany, but also to realize how many voters there are in Germany. In Germany there are 60 million voters, if I am not mistaken, and in Bulgaria there are 6 million voters. So when we talk about a common mass of funds that are distributed among parties, you will see that there the subsidy is significantly greater. Another thing from the point of view of pluralism is good, in Bulgaria there are many parties, even more than is necessary perhaps, but unlike the established Western democracies, where there are only two or three parties that receive a large part of the vote and allocate the subsidy to each other, they have the opportunity to lead a normal political life. Populism is good, but it never leads to good things. From this point of view, I invite you to be very reasonable in the vote, and to know that everyone can get into a difficult situation without state support. Political activity, political activity in Bulgaria is very difficult. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u136	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u137	It's super simple today, thank you very much. It's for the SDS. Your problem is that you can't increase your membership, really. Second, since 2017, the UDF has used public premises for rent in violation of the Law because neither have they been parliamentary represented and how you used this, nor have you skipped 1%. In violation of the Law of 2017 you use public premises for rent. That's why you're here. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u138	Thank you. Another line? A hole, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u139	The Union of the Democratic Forces does not use public premises. Show me the contract, or the contract of a room that we use and do not pay rent. [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u140	Another line? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u141	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up! Goons out of the way!...will support the proposed bill. I believe that here the debate on whether the cost-oriented analyses have been made, whether the savings that will follow for the budget are completely unnecessary, because two million and five hundred thousand Bulgarians have already given their vote to reduce the party subsidy from eight to one lev. So whether this is cost-oriented and whether this leads to enough savings, this is a problem that should have been clarified by the political parties before the national referendum in November 2016. Then the parties conveniently kept quiet and after the sovereign ruled, they challenged his vote. I just remind you that 12,000 votes did not reach this referendum to be a single vote in each polling section. So then the debate wouldn't be there, and already under the referendum, the subsidy of the parties would be of one lev. Our position of stand up! It is exactly such a one lev subsidy, as the Bulgarian people requested. This is not a populist position we're taking today. As Ombudsman, I supported the referendum of the Bulgarian people and my position since then and so far is for a lev state subsidy. The economies, in fact, which the reduction of the subsidy for the parties will lead to the state budget, are not at all small. It's $21 million. lv. On an annual basis or 48 million. lv. For four years. I merely note that this is the money needed for the full functioning of the Personal Aid Act and 80 million. lv. Plus it'll cost to have enough personal assistants for people with disabilities. That's 80 million. lv. The previous parliament was responsible for cutting the personal assistance of disabled people. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. is half the money for free nursery and gardens, for which there is never enough money in the state budget. Here is now a feather appeared, and it was passed through a vote, during a vote for the Bulgarian citizens. This, in addition to economy and compliance with the sovereign vote, will also be a sign of solidarity of the parties to the Bulgarian citizens. Because here in no parliamentary group has been worried that this Parliament has never done anything about small businesses or micro-enterprises. Self-insuring persons and currently do not receive a penny of support from the Bulgarian state in times of crisis. There's no such support! Zero leva support! At the same time the salaries of the MPs are up to the ceiling and the party funding is 8 BGN. Out loud. I'm sorry, I'm just going to read correctly the reference made to the Bill, which says there will again be parties that will receive 6 million each. $700,000. lv. A grant on an annual basis. The biggest party with the most vote will receive 6 million. $700,000. lv. The second party will receive 4 million. $520,000. lv. I believe that in times of crisis this is not fair, it is not fair and it is not solidarity with the Bulgarian citizens, who in closed businesses lived with 24 BGN. a day. At the same time, political parties will be in affluence. Sorry, $6 million. lv.! [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] Now the fact that you stand up! It is a formation of two civil associations and there are parties that are mandate carriers... [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "Who did not return the money? "]] The will of the majority in stand up! It is about reducing the party subsidy, as well as reducing the parliamentary salaries. You have voted against the inclusion on the agenda of this item, but excuse me, for one month if you do not receive the members of parliament of 7. 8 thousand. leva, this will simply be a sign to the Bulgarian citizens. People live with 700 leva, pensioners with 350 leva. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So 1 lv. a subsidy for the parties and a reduction in the salaries of MPs, apart from budget savings, is also a clear sign to the Bulgarian citizens that we are solidarity with both small companies and self-insuring individuals and Bulgarian households. In the conditions of a pandemic, this is the step the Bulgarian Parliament must take.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I can't see. Antoinette Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! The referendum and its result in fact represent a charge for the political elite, which is why it was held. What will be the public funding of whether it will be 1 BGN or more is a very serious conversation. But I would like to focus on this: why are we in this situation today to discuss that subsidies to political parties are widely distributed democratic undisputed practice should be turned into a sanction for the political class, political parties, ultimately for Bulgarian parliamentaryism? There's an answer to that. They become a sanction, not a support for the development of political life precisely because for 11 years we are looking at erosion of Bulgarian parliamentaryism, targeted destruction of the parliamentary republic, conquered institutions, non-working regulators. We had a prime minister who called the MPs the bums, and didn't show up just when he told one of the no-confidence votes. Why does Bulgarian politics for so many of Bulgarian citizens look like a shop? Because laws have been passed in this Chamber or negotiated in the couloirs laws that allow 700 million. lv. Gambling fees do not get into the budget. Because such rules have been adopted, which can be interpreted by regulators, so in the budget, I repeat the 700 million. lv. do not enter, and this law, and this regulation has been adopted in this Chamber. On the other side of this equation stands the distrust when lawmakers agree behind the back of their voters so that private interests can conquer the public sector and virtually leave regulators and institutions out of control when this part of the Chamber stands empty and parliamentary control is practically meaningless. Even in this very short National Assembly, you gentlemen and ladies have escaped parliamentary control. Perhaps we will have a National Assembly where parliamentary control will never take place. That is why the penalty for the political elite is so severe and this debate is being held in this way. But we also need to talk about the elephant in the room: why have we come this far? Because the regulations, the rules that this Parliament has adopted, are unfair. They awaken anger, discontent, and leave no understanding that the public interest is the highest here. That is why today the debate is how public funding to become a sanction for the political class and not to support political parties. Mr. Borisov, however, takes very careful care of how the support or non-support of his opponents goes by one person or another. And I remember a recording of a conversation with Vladimir Vasilevich, in which he said: "I do not like that you have become the back of one or another. " - Yes, very carefully monitor whether an opponent will not receive political support while the drawers are filled with stacks and bars.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u144	And Maggio? And Maggio is another conversation?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u145	One more thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u146	Very one-sided!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u147	One more thing, let me move on! And here I see the honorable Georg. When there are lists of donors to the media of the "Democratic Bulgaria" and insinuations are being made that donations are hardly a source of lobbying, then what confidence should people have in the way that political parties are practically legitimate, right, Mr Georg, to raise donations. You've made a great insinuation. You lied. You've made a donation with severe lobbying. That was a lie. That is why people do not believe your words and the way you function as a political party. And one more thing. The main source of false news, which undermines confidence in this institution and political life, Boyko Borisov, said first that our work here was a priority to raise our salaries to 10,000. lv. It's a total lie! And you, gentlemen and ladies of GERB-SDS, didn't bother to disprove it! Just like you didn't take offense when you called this room a bum! This debate therefore constitutes a sanction on the trust that Bulgarian citizens feel towards the political elite. I don't know if I heard very well, but Mr. Rashidov offered zero leva grant. Of course GERB-SDS can appear with zero leva subsidy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u148	The SDS can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u149	The drawers are full of cash and bars, and the DA keeps looking away! Thank you. [[Applause from ICN, ISV, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. There's a line from GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tsoneva, once again with fixation to Mr. Borisov, who is not present in the hall. By the way, this part of the room is empty for the simple reason that we first accepted the resignation, and secondly, there is no broadcast government. And why is there no parliamentary control? It is not there because we have this insane agenda, which again does not meet any requirements and needs of citizens at all. We're having a nice little pointless debate. It is pointless because, as you can see, we may not get to second reading, even if it passes at first reading this bill. However, I would like to bring you back a little bit to reality, you are saying that 11 years, what was a brutal government and so on, just to remind you that 6 years of them in the 41st and 43rd National Assembly representatives of the So everyone has to be responsible for the governments and for the decisions he has made over the years, as GERB has proven to carry. As for donations, yes, donations are undoubtedly a legitimate way of financing political parties. But there's a technical note to you here, just to check your website, because it turns out that maybe with fake names and personal data donating money, I hope it doesn't and it doesn't happen. Because that would be unpleasant for you, not for anything else. But I hope I'm wrong about this thing. In the end, speeches of this kind do not help the quality of the debate, even with the personal attacks you have expressed. Let us also stick to some good tone in the few remaining hours of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u152	Thank you, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u153	Line! A hole? I can't see. [[Relations of the National Representative Georg Georgiev.]] Yes, Mr. Georgiev. [[Replications between the MPs Georg Georgiev and Antoaneta Tsoneva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u154	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u155	Are you for a line, Mr. Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u156	For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u157	Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u158	What personal explanation? Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u159	Because you mentioned his name. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u160	So what if she mentioned it? So what if she mentioned it to you?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u161	But, Mrs. Doncheva, enough mentoring from above: You have no right and she only mentioned you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u162	Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u163	What does it mean only to mention you! " - Well, yes, she just mentioned me. That's right. That's the procedure. [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria and DPS: The other procedure has to be completed.]] It's over! [[Reply from DPS: "It's not over"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u164	He's got a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u165	Drive, drive, drive! [[Replications of the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u166	He doesn't want to!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u167	Well, how could he not? He does! He thinks you're making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u168	Do you want a hole? [[Replications of the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u169	Mr. Georgiev is running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u170	Speculate the procedure, Madam President. I will not do anyone the pleasure of getting into this obscene tone, but in the end the topic of today's debate is the subsidy of 1 BGN. It is quite clear that boutique political formations, whose existence and presence in the Bulgarian Parliament are shaking at one hair and whether they will be able to understand each other again tomorrow, just as in the years back they have failed to do so and...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u171	Mr. Georgiev, you have a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u172	...divided and never entered parliament, so this could happen tomorrow. But I wish, when we get to that stands, we could do it with some clarity about what we want to tell the voters. You now, personalizing and looking into personalities, told the voters that we do not ultimately care what you think about the subject, we are standing on this stand to express our point of view and fraud. Because you are also making suggestions that, including the institutions, have been pronounced in their clarity. So then, when you try to sow your pink dreams about what should happen or not happen, do it in a way that you can see yourself, and then give advice to others. Because it's not about whether or not someone did something, it's about you yourselves, your entire organization being able to figure out what you know...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u173	Mr. Georgiev, your time is up. I warned you you didn't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u174	You've taken a long time to specify the procedure. ...that your entire organization may first look at what it has done over the years on topics related to lobbying, because at the moment the dropout of KKCONPI and specialized courts and prosecutions is precisely this release of a gigantic resource that you will return directly into your hands...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u175	Mr. Georgiev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u176	...of the Mafia and organized crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u177	Your time was up, and it was a long way from a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u178	That's a rude violation of regulations! [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u179	I do not understand what personal explanation you have given us, but I suppose it has just as much in common with the organization and mobilization in front of the Prime Minister's house to protect it with your bodies along with your asset. [[Applause from DB.]] Your explanation has exactly as much to do with what I said as your counterprotest to Aleppu. It's like pyromaniacs putting out a fire. Thank you. [[Applause from DB and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u181	I want the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u182	Wait, I didn't give you the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u183	Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to strict compliance with the regulations and to work as recorded there. When there is a statement, there are three lines, a replica and only then a personal explanation is given. In the case in which Mrs. Tsoneva went out to make her duplicate after Mr. Georgiev's personal explanation, it is a gross violation of the Rules. Please don't let this happen again! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u184	Thank you. Mrs. Doncheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u185	I want an extension of the parliamentary group's time. Goons out! and move on to the speech of saving time. The topic of today's debate is whether the subsidy for the parties can become a lev... can even pay. This debate was actually aroused after 2000 and the reason for that was that the issue of dependence on sponsors became too big. Not that the parties had never shown such tolerance before, that Ivan Kostov was not looking for the collection of money for the electricity of the "Positano"............................................................................ Then, for a year or two, all specialists, sociologists, political scientists, some of whom today applaud the strong of the day and are ready to support each of their thesis, using European experience, have come to the point that there must be funding. For our viewers, I'm explaining where the money comes from. I remind myself of some questions that should also be asked: where does the money for our subsidies come from? From the state budget, the simplest answer. Where does your 50, 100, 200 or 300 leva come from? For buying votes? Where did the money come from during the campaigns to broadcast television videos with godlessly high tariffs? Where does the money even come from for the square centimeters of local media, which, on the principle of a day-year-old food? Two months in the elections sell square centimeters and do not write newspapers or websites? Where did the money come from for the concerts that had become a tradition before the pandemic? [[Applause from ISV.]] From the black crates, dear TV viewers! These black boxes are formed approximately according to the following mechanism: the ruling party or the managing mayor, who wishes to be re-elected, gives the public procurement to Hicks company, against which Hicks company allocates some of the money he has to pay to fund the one to which the minister belongs, the ergo mayor. This thing goes on even with government funding. What about one dollar government funding and where's that money coming from?! All from the same state budget, dear viewers, all from the same state budget! Consider how much money goes around like this. Yeah, somebody's gonna say, "There's a referendum." Since I have conquered freedom, conquered for tens of years participating in political life, in which no one can accuse me of putting myself on someone or of making promises that I do not know how I will fulfill in time, I can tell you: from this state budget all the time! If a referendum had been allowed a long time ago, seriously underestimated by President Plevneliev and by the main political parties, who instead of putting their arguments on the table and explaining in human words, preferred to ignore Slavi Trifonov and his screenwriters, show, followers, it was a mistake, but it could not lead to much bigger mistakes. The people who graduated from Sofia University have passed a second-year exam under state or constitutional law, with a view to their class, and will remember Professor Evgeni Tanchev's lectures that in some stories of humanity with referendums the worst things have been inserted, such as Hitler. I do not suggest anything, but do not simply refer to the existence of a referendum when the arguments are insufficient. Yes, there must be a scale to reduce this subsidy, and perhaps it is logical and right to be one number, from 100 to 300................... from 300 to 500............................... and so that more than 1 million is...................... is................................................................................................... so that you may.... so that you can not to collect.. so that you can collect................................................. This hits the little ones first and even more hits those who will now go into politics. Politics in Bulgaria, if we want to have natural selection and normal reproduction of people's ideas, must be accessible and it cannot be concentrated in two or three parties and believe that only our party will be the one that will exist. As for who has what to owe surely and "Move 21" has to owe, I can tell you outside this tribune and how it was created, but it is not important. The important thing is that when you have government officials that any sponsor of yours can start running a home book through DANS, Financial Intelligence, ADPI and whatever you think, you can't avoid tomorrow your party being in the role of this satrap. When you ask the other side of the room how much TV owes them, think about whether someone will ask you tomorrow if your TV does not owe? [[Applause from ISV.]] Also, wouldn't someone show up to put bills on you with unpaid bills, because the sponsor theme I started with is exactly what it is. When the sponsors come, they don't give you free lunch, and they give you to give them tomorrow public procurement, a seat in the administration, a seat in the Council of Ministers and everything else. For this reason there must be a reasonable state funding, not to call anyone who, with his face and his name, says to you: don't go there, you hypocrite! [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. Mr. Toshko Yordanov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u187	Thank you. I hope everyone understands that Movement 21 has not returned the overprivileged subsidy. If someone hasn't figured it out, it's good to know. I will repeat yes, it is hypocrisy if the will of the Bulgarian people is not fulfilled. Now a lot of people are shaking their fingers that they've slept through the referendum. The truth is, even if you hadn't slept through it, the result would have been the same. The Bulgarian people have will, and everything else, Mrs. Doncheva, is hypocrisy. You're welcome to say something clever. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u188	Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u189	Years ago, at the end of the school at Sofia University introduced the new economic mechanism in the political school year and after explaining it, explained it, someone asked Professor Nikolai Genchev: He said, "I understand it's like that song he doesn't know, you don't know, I don't know, but lead me, lead me there. [[Applause from ISV and ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u190	Any other lines? I can't see. It's 11:40. 30 minutes of rest. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u191	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I call upon those in their rooms to come to the Chamber. Mr. Balabanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u192	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm sorry I don't see you at the moment. Most of you are still having lunch, drinking coffees, thinking it's all over with regard to the subsidy debate. But in fact, this is a very serious issue, and I hope that you will return to work, stop your rest, because I have listened to the speeches of most of you before the break, and I absolutely have the democratic right to disagree with most of you. Because the example of your behaviour with regard to the subsidy is another proof that the will and voice of 2.5 million Bulgarians do not interest you, there are many examples, there are many facts. The thesis of all of you regarding the fact that if the subsidy becomes BGN 1, I am talking about the views of the parties in the status quo, the parties will be hostages of economic interests long exhale as a thesis, because all of you standing before me, long before there was even a proposal to reduce the subsidy, were part of such economic interests, you are still part of such economic interests, and the honorary chairman of one of the parties many years ago talked about the hoops of companies. I'll give you specific examples, listen to me. An example of the particular environment that stands against me half empty is that your finance minister years ago, we talk about Mr. Goranov, lived in a businessman's apartment under the pretext that he was afraid of an earthquake, given that you then received 11 leva. Out loud, and you've been overtaking subsidies, which is a definite crime, and you know it very well. My question here to you is: how come no one asked and asked Mr. Goranov for criminal liability because the overtaking of the subsidies started as early as 2014, when Mr. Goranov took office as Finance Minister? Now, I was sure that before the break you from GERB-SDS will come out and say that you will probably support the proposal the subsidy to be 1 BGN. and you'll probably blame the other parties for why the subsidy is still 8 BGN, but I don't know who will actually believe you, because you had four years of opportunity to change this subsidy, you didn't do it, and you used it, you used your coalition partners then I'm talking about the United Patriarchs, to be your front, not to agree to this grant not to pass. Then in the light, if you remember, the public wedding came out between you and BSP, and the United Patriarchs......................................................... you....................... Remember? I'll give you another fact. Here I would like to quote Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova's post on Facebook after the meeting of the Legal Committee about two weeks ago. I quote, Mrs. Atanasova: The Legal Commission in Parliament said that the subsidy amount of BGN 1 Is there a people who asked for this in a referendum? Yes, Mrs. Atanasova, there is a people, but you, unfortunately, do not comply with it. What are the facts? The latest evidence is that at the very first reading in the Legal Committee, your members abstained on the issue of the subsidy, and the rest of you were against it. If you really wanted to comply with the will of the sovereign, Mrs. Atanasova, why didn't you vote for the Legal Commission and refrain so that this proposal wouldn't pass? While you were outbiding subsidies, people were collecting kneecaps. While you were voting 8 leva. Party subsidy, you filled the party crates, and you didn't give money for medical helicopters, for example. So don't be surprised by the fact that people in the square have been yelling at you for over a year that they hate you for free. Personally, I'm ashamed of you. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u193	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The National Assembly tribunal requires that the political discourse that I should use be at the level of parliamentaryism. I will begin by asking you, Madam President, when we hear different words of the kind of: Thieves, you are stealing, you are not making a remark, because these are accusations. Colleagues, an extremely important bill, and when we talk about systems in the field of politics, when we live in a democratic state, we need to make clear what follows from some laws that are being tabled. If we have a referendum, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, whether the income of Bulgarian citizens should be taxed, the result will be very fast, clear and accurate. Of course not. If we ask Bulgarian citizens whether Bulgarian healthcare, even if Bulgarian education is free of charge, the answer will be: "Yes, of course! " You can't have one without the other. When in a referendum you put a question without clear arguments, without clear discussion, because in the reasons you also point out that there should be a serious debate on how to finance political parties, a serious debate on how to spend the money they receive, how they should receive, then you can go out on this stand to speak purely politically. I appeal to the importers, without, of course, making criticism, because when you enter this door, when you step into the National Assembly, you become politicians, honourable colleagues. Get out of the role of all who you are. Yes, each of us is modern about the time we live in, with the profession that it is. But remember that when we are in this room, we are in the first place politicians. And when we turn around and use this people on the pretext that 2.5 million Bulgarian citizens voted in this referendum, of course we have to respect their vote and vote. And what do we do with the other four million? Where are they? They're just gone. Or they did not vote in this referendum because there was no precise and clear explanatory campaign. What if the issue were otherwise formulated: to reduce the subsidy of the political parties to be BGN 1 but to be financed in some other form, how would this referendum result? We don't know! Therefore, honourable Members, the speakers from the various political formations expressed different views, different examples of how before or in other countries there existed both before or in the country. There was talk of co-financing, self-financing by political parties. Ms. Tatiana Doncheva gave very clear examples of how a ruling party was smashing the other parties in order not to have funding. State funding was banned. Examples were given with other countries how they received a state subsidy within one euro, but received additional funding through their foundations. Or the model to become able, in a situation where the political systems in the state are subjugated, dependent on different corporations, organizations, associations, as lately it is fashionable to express ourselves And then to wonder how political formations, I open up a clamp a colleague who spoke and made a reply, said the following: "In order to gain the trust of Bulgarian citizens, we must be close to them. Two months ago, we had a parliamentary election. There are parties that, not one day, including some of the colleagues from the importers, not one day, I am talking about the electoral area where I come from, were not on the field, but have a serious number of votes! How does that work?! I don't have an explanation, I don't want to make assumptions, I don't want to interpret. The fact that we should be close to the voters, the voter should hear arguments, clear messages and programs. Then she can vote, then she can vote. And I implore you, as importers, go out and say: "Yes, we are about this, but give clear and precise arguments. In your motives, honourable Members, you point to a lack of public discussion, a display of inconsistent legislative policy, a lack of a general solution for the financing of political parties, because, you see, the subsidy is currently 8 BGN. Out loud. Unprincipled rules for financing political parties and election campaigns are subject to sharp criticism from various international organisations. That's right. But a little further down where you say you're going to import a new model, a new model, which we are also talking about about a new governance model in the country. Quite different things are, of course, to end vicious practices in order to stop vicious practices during election campaigns in order to stop even vicious practices from the state subsidy received by political parties, to finance televisions, radios and so on and so forth. But remember that there are political parties that are built with structures throughout the country we are such a political formation, and for the functioning of political clubs, various events from the state calendar are needed financial resources. But you also say the main goal is to carry out an in-depth analysis and so on and so forth. We don't have that analysis. Yeah, you're leaning on the referendum, but that's just not enough. Therefore, it is most reasonable to remain this model, let the next National Assembly carry out an in-depth analysis, explore various international standards for financing political parties and when we argue not only from this platform Keep in mind, and we say it as a political formation, which has long experience in the political process in the latest history of Bulgaria. The voter will understand you and vote in elections with pleasure. Because you're honest and honest with them, not that way. Before I finish, I address all Members of the National Assembly, we are equal in front of all voters. When we speak on behalf of the Bulgarian people, we must be very careful. Yes, I represent the entire Bulgarian people as a MP, but I do not have the right to speak on behalf of the entire Bulgarian people. In this room, I repeat, we are Bulgarian politicians. Getting out of the role of the leaders, getting out of the role of commentators, getting out of the role of showmen is not an insult, I strongly stress, and going back to the political discourse that requires parliamentaryism in this National Assembly. We expect this from you. Therefore, I turn to the greatest political formation: prove that the practices of the previous National Assembly are left behind and reject this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u195	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? Here you go. I'm just asking you to introduce yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u196	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear listeners and spectators! [[Radio, noise and lines.]] You liked it, didn't you? After all, for the first time on this stage, it is right for us to respect the will of our constituents. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] I didn't hear a colleague, did you say a red dot? Thank you. Well, it's my first time on this stage. We should respect the will of our constituents. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I didn't hear a colleague, did you tell me a red dot? [[Noise and excitement.]] Thank you. The will of our voters was the organised referendum in 2016. Mr. Ibryamov, you said you could not speak on behalf of the Bulgarian voters. Yes, but they said and gave their vote. They did so in 2016, when they chose what the amount of the subsidy would be. [[Noise and lines.]] It's normal, I'm worried! One lev, Mr. Hristov of the UDF because you opposed eight levs. Eight leva subsidy, and you said that one lev is the voluntary membership of your party, for your members. There is such a people that we have proved that we can make elections with only two revenue sources. Mainly, the income from membership imports exceeded the income from donations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u197	Mrs. Iron!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u198	Eight leva is not a trust we can vote on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u199	Mrs. Iron, time is running out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u200	The trust of the citizens is not expressed in eight leva, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u201	Mrs. Iron, your cue time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u202	Eight leva is too much for Bulgarian citizens. Any member who voluntarily joins a party may choose his membership imports, as is under the Party's Statute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u203	Mrs. Iron, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u204	He doesn't have to do that. [[Noise and lines.]] One lev has defined the Bulgarian voter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u205	Time, Mrs. Iron!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u206	Thank you. [[World applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u207	The line is Mr. Erjan Ebatin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u208	Colleague Ibryamov, you don't think that a spirit of parliamentaryism reigns in this parliament after 9th September? This is where the spirit of Tsola Dragoycheva lives. That's it! [[Noise and excitement.]] The partisans come down from the forest and bring justice. And I'm addressing the Bill importers. Colleagues, not only me, world practice shows that a key pillar of parliamentaryism and democratic society is that parties have an adequate subsidy and how adequate a debate is, a matter of discussion. You understand that this referendum was made under the conditions of populism of a show to earn a single rating. And when there is a rating in the conditions of populism in a strong reprimand of the whole political system and class, how much this National Assembly must comply with the outcome of this populist referendum, how real and reasonable the arguments are, I personally do not accept them, and our voters do not accept them. And since democracy may not be the best thing in the past, but there is nothing better invented than democracy to exist, a major pillar is political parties to have a reasonable subsidy. It is clear that the other case means trap and this trap was removed 2000 with a strong public debate. And I call on you to return to the level of parliamentaryism, not to any one here after the 9th September euphoria, because elections are coming and, you see, my laws are better than their laws to vote for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u209	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Another line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u210	Mr. Ibryamov, my line is to you, but in fact with a recommendation to remind the lady that the voter's wish was not expressed in the referendum. There is expressed the will of Bulgarian citizens. And the will of the voters was expressed in the elections on 4 April and they arranged the parliamentary groups, starting with the group of GERB-SDS, alas. In this regard, all the lyrical deviations that have been made here with regard to the amount of the subsidy are, in my opinion, absolutely unnecessary at the moment, because it did not become clear which one and what considerations there are. I suggest that we consider that it is time to vote, and let each vote according to his conscience, according to his beliefs and according to the commitment he has made to his constituents, because our voters are the ones who voted for us and have given us their trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u211	Thank you. Mr. Ibryamov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To be corrected by my colleagues, but I think Socrates had said, "Speak to me, so I can hear you." We talk, colleagues, but we don't hear from each other. My request is that we do not enter into the debate which party will determine its internal rules and the amount of membership imports. Of course, everyone has the right to express their own opinion.. I do not say that these 500 thousand sixty-several people who voted for you are your members. I'm not even saying it's 100,000, not even 50. I accept a decent number of 20,000 people. You can count 120 leva. On an annual basis, how much is that? So I asked not to talk about who steals from whom, whether he steals from them, whether we lie to the Bulgarian voter. And before I close, I speak very seriously in order for democracy to exist in order to be able to function the political systems that are based on the political parties in this system of government in Bulgaria, a state subsidy is needed. When there is a clear, accurate analysis, I am convinced that you will understand that you are making a huge mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u213	I'm sorry, but I don't understand the personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u214	Dear Mrs. Ironova, what I have said is that the Union of Democratic Forces has not received a subsidy in the previous Parliament, and yes, it has indeed been very difficult and we have not been equal to the others. At the moment we are commenting on the amount of the subsidy, which you think is conditional on these 2 million 516 thousand voted in the referendum, which is true, but why these 2 million 516 thousand did not support you in the elections and voted only five hundred and several thousand, I have no answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u215	Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will try to do a reading of what is happening today. As a matter of fact, I am pleased to say that this may be the first debate since the beginning of the 45th National Assembly, which, with few exceptions, is being conducted constructively, without unnecessary emotions. Colleagues have tried to humiliate him and the importance of what we are going to vote on today, with comparison, almost, a collection of Kuveyose caps, which is quite different and has nothing to do with the topic we are talking about today. It's fundamental today's question. It is fundamental for two reasons: the first reason is how and how will democracy and political life function in the country? But more fundamental to me is the second reason. It is very important and it is an appeal to all political parties, including GERB, if you want to, so that you do not feel in any way offended.... what we promise our voters. When 2016, you decided to initiate this referendum, there was no harm, then neither did you have a political party, perhaps you had any idea of ever entering the policy. I will tell you my personal opinion in principle about referendums, and it is that you have to be very careful with this topic. Because what I see today, fellow Members of the "There is such a people" is this: you are trapped in populism. You've trapped yourself in this trap. We fell for it, too, didn't we? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] They remind me, which is right, I can't hide my soul. But what did you do?! You have come into a situation where in the short time of the 45th National Assembly you have to satisfy what you have spoken in the previous years. And because the majority vote somehow dislikes you, because you have started making the thin bills that the next elections are coming, so you decided to enter this other trap and press on the subject of the reduction of the subsidy. However, this is a trap because I am glad that the Bulgarian citizens are watching and I think that most of them are rationally thinking about the issue................... if there is no funding of political parties...............then they will inevitably be financed in another way. It's very easy for me, because there were such statements earlier. Well, I can ask how television is financed, for example. I don't know. I'm asking, right? How do you finance other political parties that don't have subsidies? Where did they get money for videos, billboards, where did they get money for media appearances? I ask you to answer me. It's very important... [[Noise and lines.]] No, I don't want to lower the debate, because the subject is really very, very serious. Very important, my colleagues here I really agree with my colleague Zarkov, who just said that it takes courage at such moments. Because we are in representative democracy, and if we do not understand it, it means this: people are trusting us, but we are responsible with our decisions, with our speeches, with our debates, with our vote, not outside. In my opinion, referendums largely, when they are not of some very basic nature, are running away from responsibility. You delegate to the sovereign to make the decision you don't want or can't make. I say my personal opinion, maybe not everyone shares that, but I have to tell myself. So, colleagues, think about what we're doing today. Indeed, the question is fundamental, and we must not subject the political system to this ugliness then explain ourselves to the citizens who and how they finance and what commitments they have made to obtain this funding and then to meet with a vote in this House one's claims. Whether there is a corporate vote, whether there are unfair practices in the years, but this is not the work of the National Assembly. We vote in principle what we believe should happen. There are plenty of other competent authorities. If the legislation needs to change, let's change if we need to look for the balance in what the party subsidy is going to be. Let's look for. But we must clearly tell the citizens that without funding from the state... And there's no argument that 20, 40, 60 million... Sorry, that's ergonomic. This means that you tell people: we push all political parties into the hands of oligarchy. That's what we say with today's decision! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because, fellow Members, and I am ending, you are in new political parties, you are in parliament, or you are in principle not going to leave a serious mark in our political life long-term, or there is something behind-the-scenes that you are not saying, or just, as I said just said, you are trapped in populism and you just need to somehow come out of the fact that the majority system did not support it and now, you see, a start on the last day of the National Assembly, you need to reduce the subsidy. But, guys, look, political life is not Facebook. It's not Facebook! Political life I have spent many years in elections is really the right word for responsibility. You have to be very careful what you promise, because one day, you're gonna come in here and you're gonna have to do it. And don't fall into this trap, it's true for everyone. From now on, there are two months ahead, very careful with the promises we make to citizens. That's my understanding. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u217	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u218	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Very gifted as a speaker is Mr. Nenkov, I say that without irony. I will answer some of the questions he raised from this tribune anyway, although some of them have nothing to do with parliamentaryism. TV is supported in two ways by a subscription paid by its viewers, which is worth 78 pennies, and even by the scarce adverts it has. So, of course, television production is still relatively modest. If you want to help, subscribe, there are fun shows there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u219	I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u220	And you do? Okay. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]] It's about how television is financed. Our campaign, which we have now, has nothing to do with the practices established over the years in conducting campaigns in Bulgaria. We didn't have billboards all over the country, we didn't have powerful media participations, we didn't have commercials, and we did that very consciously. This is proof that a campaign can also be done with a really far, far-reaching budget. Well, that's obvious. Yes, we failed to become the first political force, but we achieved a very serious vote from our first appearance. Colleagues from BSP and DPS generally stand for those positions that they stand for today. At least that's respectable, because they hold on to what they said a long time ago. That's respectable. But now, in this nice speech you've made, Mr. Nenkov, I really...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u221	I'm against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u222	Look, you said you were against it personally, but your group will support this proposal. You're getting some kind of nonsense. Yes, you don't have to follow any party discipline, you have the right to vote as you wish. However, the logic, which plays GERB politically, is very confusing. It's nonsense logic. You are both opposed, both for, and in the Commission, you are abstentioning, and now in this House you will support. [[Single applause from IHN.]] I'm sorry, but that just seems illogical, not that it's anything else. I don't mean to offend you. Why hadn't it been held, said DPS colleagues, a deeper debate in society? Because in 2016, the only media that talked about it was the so-called Slavi Trifonov Show.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u223	There wasn't time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u224	Then BTV TV gave us the opportunity to do it. No other major media channel... I'm done. I'm sorry. ...didn't comment on the topic, there were no sociologists, political analysts, analysts, political parties. Therefore, there was no such debate and yet the Bulgarian people went out and voted. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u225	Thank you, Mr. Stanev. Here you go, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u226	Mr. Nenkov, you say that political life is not Facebook. Are you serious about this thing? You've been in a hell of a lot of fear lately, and your leader's been on Facebook with live inclusions every half hour. [[(Applause from IHN. Announcements by GERB-SDS: Your leader where is he?]] One more thing. In terms of taking responsibility. After 2 and a half million Bulgarians 2016 said: "I am going to grant a lev subsidy, you had full responsibility within four years to accept this subsidy. [[Heckling]] Yeah, you're telling me Majority, and you didn't do that. And the majority system failed to change within four years. So in terms of taking responsibility, you are absolutely responsible. And here my question to you is this: since you once again had the opportunity to support this proposal, why did you abstain? I can't understand you. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u227	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Mr. Tosko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u228	Mrs. Chairman! Thank you for this speech for a very simple reason. Once again here, some of the MPs, including you, seem to think you are aristocrats who can neglect the role of the people. People have made a decision, but you are obviously smarter, more understanding, you are above them and therefore you can absolutely aristocraticly spit on their will. It's beautiful, and I'm gonna say it again, and it's on TV. Let the people who are going to elections in about two months, know who they think are aristocrats in this room! [[Relations, applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u229	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u230	Guys, I'm sorry, but you don't understand. I think I was constructive enough. Including I said in the years on whether or not we voted, two things I will tell you. First of all, GERB never promised this. Secondly, I said that even some time here with colleagues who have attended, they know that sometimes to go on this populist wave, it simply does not go back. In my speech, I was extremely well-meaning for every political formation to be careful what it takes as commitments. It is very easy for me to say, colleague Balabanov, about the majority elections. I won't do it. Your constituents will discuss whether you have done your job and what you have fought for to enter Parliament, not me, nor my parliamentary group. I was just trying to... I don't feel like an aristocrat either. Excuse me, where's Mr. Yordanov? I don't feel in any way like an aristocrat. I'm just saying it from the position of a man who still has some parliamentary experience and I've seen in the years that if parties are not financed by the state, it's very difficult for a political party to have its party life. That's why I said, without including any accusations, neither of them for......................... or anything... that is your problem, is not my problem. I'm saying you found yourself some kind of mechanism. You say: "Yes, we haven't run a campaign now. " - I don't know where Borisov is, but I don't know where Slavi Trifonov is either. I haven't seen him. He's an MP, as far as I can remember. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] But I'm not getting into this. Look, fellow Members, if we were in a situation when there was a pandemic when events couldn't take place, it wouldn't be like that over the years. If we're counting on politics to be on Facebook, through a sofa on some white wall, sorry, that can't be long-term. You know the worst thing that's happened in the last two years?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u231	Mr. Nenkov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u232	I've only got three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u233	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u234	We're trying, colleagues, to corrupt everything. Let's say everything is bad, all institutions are unemployed, there are no political parties, everything is a masquerade. Until we stop doing this thing, not a party grant a lev, not here if you want us to whip ourselves up, cut our wages or whatever it was, people will never respect us. We must defend democracy, institutions and regardless of our different opinion, the most important thing must be respected. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u235	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Three lines have passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u236	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u237	I signed you up, Mr. Bikov, but before you, there are others. Mrs. Valentina Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u238	Madam President, honourable Members! The subsidy issue... [[They don't have time!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u239	Mrs. Vassileva, you're already at a low time. I'm so sorry. Mrs. Eva Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u240	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To compare the change of the type of electoral system with the reduction of the amount of the state subsidy is as serious as the submitted Majority System Bill. The last four years have changed three times the amount of the state subsidy. As an importer of the State Budget Bill is the Council of Ministers, I hope that today we will clearly understand what decision is behind the Prime Minister's resignation and his parliamentary group. For 11 leva. Did he submit with the Law amending the state budget for 2017, immediately after the referendum of 6 November 2016, for 1 BGN. Is it, which he submitted in June 2019 when the overcharged subsidy scandal took place, or for BGN 8 which were changed to a third vote on a proposal from Cornelia Ninova and then imported by the State Budget Act 2021? Yes, at the moment the amount of the state subsidy is 8 BGN. in the case of fully open funding. This funding has been declared, as we have said several times, unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. There is indeed a need for a serious and thorough review of the model of funding of political parties in election campaigns, and this needs to be done with a broad political consensus, should be done after a thorough discussion with political party specialists and after a really thorough study of international practices and standards. The anti-constitutionality of the Law amending the state budget for 2019, in fact provisions literally adopted overnight in 2019. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u241	Mrs. Miteva, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u242	Could you extend the group's time, please? ... were sharply criticised in the opinion of the OSS on the same bill. In addition, I would like to say that there must be a serious review here and the rules relating to spending the funds of the political parties, because, as the President of the Court of Platt pointed out in 2019, it is difficult for them to carry out an assessment of the costs of the parties for which costs are inherent and which are not the same to the political party and gave an example of payment of a fine to the KAT by a party president. Finally, I would also like to address the MPs who have been competing for two weeks to submit laws relating to any social measures and ask them to support the bill, because with this bill the budget economy will indeed be around 21 million. lv. In this way they can really be used for Bulgarian citizens. Everything else is mimicri. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u243	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miteva. I apologize for the note, you had a statement. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Atanas Kostadinov from BSP, is he here? For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u244	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! I appeal to the introductions of the Bill, and I cannot honestly hide my disappointment from the form and content of the debate in the way it has been conducted so far. In order not to be naked or insult someone, I will talk mainly about the status of the preliminary impact assessment you have submitted. First, the shape. In 45 rows, honourable Members, two sides require a really significant change with regard to the Law on Political Parties. If the title is a preliminary assessment, I would call it: an extremely preliminary assessment or preliminary assessment of the preliminary assessment, because none of what should be present as an attribute in terms of an in-depth, very analytical and very clear statement is here. In terms of content, in five points, the main argument in three of them was the 2 million 516 thousand 957 Bulgarian citizens, which is a fact. This known fact cannot be the only basis in 60% of the ex ante impact assessment. Keep in mind that there is no assessment of the environment, no risk assessment, no so-called assessment of strengths and weaknesses. I see because I was not among you until now, I followed you remotely, your desire and efforts have been declared that you want to change the state, the rules and the model. I also want to do this, but with such a formal approach, I don't think you will succeed. Such a preliminary assessment is an insult to the Bulgarian Parliament and will not achieve its goal. A little further down in these five points, in addition to talking only about the figure 2 million 516 thousand 957, is presented a table which is called Comparative Analysis. Dear colleagues, I can also guess who has helped to draw up this table, as there is a comparative analysis of the following: the number of votes of parties, once multiplied by one lev, the other column of eight levs, and with a calculator, or with a pencil, is presented the result. I don't know if they were a boy or a girl, but they're probably between fourth and fifth grade. That's what I'm convinced of. So this comparative analysis is not any such and does not honor you with the great ambition you have taken as a cause of your political power to change the model, to present such documents to the National Assembly. The second thing that strikes me is that you, or I do not think it is inexperience, but you deliberately underestimate the role of the National Assembly and allow yourself to insult entire parliamentary groups as well as MPs. By stopping myself from being naked, I'll tell you what I mean. The sentence, which is at the beginning of the preliminary assessment, is dictated by the need to respect the will of the Bulgarian citizens, expressed in a national referendum now with the very sentence, inasmuch as you have not introduced a change in the Bulgarian Constitution, this whole statement puts on an extremely controversial basis this preliminary assessment, as well as your whole idea of this bill. Dear colleagues, and if one person were not enough, here perhaps you will support me, this referendum, as it turned out, has no direct application and the case is directed to the Bulgarian Parliament. We have closed the issue of necessity to respect the will. This thing is over. Yeah, 12 grand, yeah, almost on the brink of an impressive result. The case is in the Bulgarian Parliament. With regard to the Bulgarian Parliament, I would also like to tell you something else. Makes me uncomfortable because now there are, colleagues, three very modern words: sovereign, if you do a content-analysis, two thirds of your messages contain the concept of sovereign. Other politicians are noticed as well. What makes me uncomfortable? You perceive as sovereign only and only the people who somehow supported your cause. Dear colleagues, sovereign are also the people who have not voted and those who have voted for other parties. So, given that about 82. 83 per cent, bringing the matter to the National Assembly, have not supported your political power, I ask you to adopt a sovereign in a slightly wider aspect and with a little more humility. I am already finishing, with my third message, the terms, such as greedy, simple, the chairman of your parliamentary group, thieves and so on, are an insult not so much to individual colleagues, are not an insult to individual political parties, which you call greedy, simple, thieving, they are not even an insult to your political power, because it is quite new, they are an insult to the Bulgarian voter. And I think in two months you'll understand what I'm saying from this tribune. Thank you. Applause and applause: ВСП въргарски и полова и да да вържа вържиче.)
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u245	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I can't see. [[People's representative wants the floor.]] I signed you up, my dear lady. Mr. Toma Bikov was willing to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u246	Madam President, honourable Members! In this debate a lot is spoken and the word hypocrisy is used. It is hypocritical at all that we are looking at this law today, with the full consciousness of its importers, that it will not be seen at second reading, because there will be no time and therefore will not be accepted. And the whole discussion here, which is already a few hours, is about a law that is originally clear that it will not be adopted due to lack of time. Well, that's hypocrisy. Right now we're fooling people who are watching us on TV that we're really discussing something. And we're not really discussing it. It's not gonna happen. It is hypocritical to say that you will save 21 million on subsidies and give them to the Social Security Code and pensions, and so on, which are worth, colleagues, probably about a billion or more. Well, it's hypocrisy, and it's real, because it can't happen. There's no way this money's gonna happen for you to give up pensions. The pensions are given in another way, they are given by the working Bulgarians, taken from them and given to the elderly. But this is done in a much different way, in a much more difficult way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u247	And on the next point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u248	It's hypocritical to say that with this change of 8 leva. 1 BGN. You want to change the pattern. You're not changing any models, you're just reducing the grant. To change the model means to change the way the subsidy is spent, to put in some control mechanisms, to make an example of a design principle what other colleagues have talked about from here to change the methodology, this is a change of model. To cut from eight to one, or from eight to zero, if you want to or increase it is not a change of pattern. No change of pattern is that. Similarly, parties will spend money to be a little less, but there is no model. Don't fool people. If you were serious about dealing with this problem, you would have submitted a much more serious bill. You were going to explain a methodology here, say: we will do as is in Germany, which will be monitored by the state how money comes in, how it comes out, how we will compensate for not giving money to parties or less giving. This is all a very serious question. You're bringing it to the last day of this parliament. Well, that's hypocrisy. That's real. As was the hypocrisy of the referendum itself. I'm against it, and I'm voting against it, and I'm telling you this so you don't accuse me of hypocrisy. I am opposed to the frivolous way in which you are putting this issue, and this issue is obviously important to your constituents. Maybe for other voters outside of yours. That's not respect for these people. You shouldn't have brought it in. You had a very clear argument. In contrast to the majority vote. In the majority vote, you had no argument. Here you would have just said: and imported it, and not imported it, we wouldn't have time to vote it at second reading, and the majority could have voted it at second reading. There could and could have made the next election with a majority system. You could have. You have a CEC now, and you have a president, and you have everything. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Why? Why? And here, you're just doing a theater to say, "Look now, the majority because there wasn't time, but right now we're bringing in one lev, so we've made our commitment." No, commitments are very difficult to fulfil. You'll understand, you'll be in the next parliament. It's very difficult to fulfill your commitments. It's not that. It does not cancel your commitment to your constituents, and not just on these two points. You probably have other ideas. It can't happen that way. To change the model for example, I will tell you: means, here is a change of model in terms of party financing. Let us cancel and ban political advertising in the media during an election campaign, since we will receive 1 BGN, let us ban it. I'm not in. Do you know why? Because it would lead to money being given under the table. There will always be someone who can do it, because it will not be clear what is advertising and what is not. But this is a change of pattern even this. You didn't offer anything like that. Reduce the price, raise the price, vote it is a mockery, mockery you are doing right now. And I'm sure even your constituents will understand that. They'll understand because they're not stupid. That 2.5 million you say in 2016 voted, it is your logic that we must do a census and another referendum then, in order for this picture to be up-to-date, only we shouldn't do it. I respect those people's opinions. If I am willing in any way to support this idea, it is only because of this, because in England a number of politicians disagreed with the Brexit referendum, but after it happened, they said: this is a political fact, we have to do what it costs us, although we do not agree, although in this way the country will not be well, we will experience a crisis and so on. Another question is that your referendum did not pass this limit, yes, with very little. If you really want to change something in the funding model of parties, you should do it seriously. You need to get into dialogue with all of us. Telling us we're hypocrites, we're thieves, we're crooks, and so on, you just won't accomplish anything. Yes, it will be very attractive to see your relatives or your viewers in If you want to achieve it, you must be prone to conversation, dialogue. You have to listen to some things, because you may not be right in your initial judgment. You may change your mind on some matters. That's not a problem. It's a problem when you say you won't change it, but you change it. It's hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u249	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For lines? Mr. Philip Stanev was the first to make a wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u250	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. Mr. Bikov, speaking of hypocrisy from the National Assembly stands is a higher form of hypocrisy. Knowing your political path, because we as journalists have followed him closely over the years, we will not recall that famous phrase about the cartoon of a dictator in which Borisov is, but you have walked a very interesting moral-living political path which, for you perhaps, has nothing to do with hypocrisy and by Thomas, allow me such a joke, Thomas Inveni, regarding Boyko Borisov, you have become Thomas Most faithful, apologist of the same prime minister [[Applause from IHN.]] So please don't exactly talk about hypocrisy. You were part of the credit you had back then, part of falling apart your old political formation and now it is not to be present in parliament in the form it was in then. You were a very active actor of reformist history in Bulgaria, and now you are Boyko Borisov's final apologist. Compliments! To those like you, their people are told a friend of truth! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u251	Thank you, Mr. Stanev. The BSP gave up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u252	Take turns.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u253	Let's take turns. [[Noise and lines.]] A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u254	Line, yeah. Madam President, honourable Members! I find it a little strange for the GERB group to talk about hypocrisy and to say, and to claim that they will support this... hmm, this proposal of the group of..There is such a people......................... subsidy. Isn't it hypocritical, dear colleagues, to have over 20 million in the bank account and be prepared to support 1 lev. subsidy? Isn't that hypocrisy? [[Applause from DB.]] Isn't it hypocrisy to go out one by one of your group of people and say they won't support it? After all, what part of the group will support this proposal? Since we have to decide how to satisfy the wishes of those who voted in the referendum, are these two million since 2016 and how many and a half would vote now again because it has been five years since the referendum? Does the Bulgarian people continue to believe that the party subsidy should be BGN 1 when they become famous donors with the names of Ivan Todorov because they were like this, right? Gentlemen, think about what is hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bikov, colleagues could not understand why for changing the electoral system from proportional to majority elections there was time and for one lev there was no time. So I'm going to try to explain to them, and I want you to explain to them that the Election Code actually passed last week and we are done with it, while one lev for political parties is yet to be viewed at first reading in the Chamber. It is clear to everyone that we do not have plenary time to pass this law at second reading. In other words, all that is being done here is a demonstration by one of the parliamentary groups that it almost does not comply with the referendum. He doesn't take into account the referendum, because this is a big theater right here today, too. And with regard to the rude jokes at your address to one of your colleagues, don't mind him. Every time you mention a referendum and majority elections from this tribune, they will come out and insult you. That's the reason, you know?! And we have to repeat it.. there are no major elections in Bulgaria. The party, which became a party in order to have majority elections in Bulgaria, entered the parliament and voted in a way of majority elections that will never happen. And there was time, there were areas. The districts were published on the page of the SlaviShow. We were ready to introduce the majority elections in Bulgaria last week and this should be heard very clearly. There was time for this Parliament to accept the referendum held in 2016. Not for one lev, not for this demonstration and the theatre you are making here, but for the real majority elections that you did not make. The colleague Bikov told you: 2009 were the last regular elections before these. There is no telling how many years, perhaps decades, there will be regular elections again to vote majority. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u257	Mr. Dobrev, thank you. The three lines are over. A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u258	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stanev, you won't achieve much with that line either. [[Noise and lines.]] I can remind you... Yeah, I've changed my mind, and I'm not hiding it. I was... [[Applause from IHN. Line.]] That's right. Some of you, however, will never change your mind by seeing how much their intellectual potential is. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] There are people who will always be of the same opinion. I'm sure you won't be one of them, but others will be, including your party. I was a journalist in an opposition newspaper. During this time, and not only during this, in the last 20 years and even 30 years, your leader has been leading the most official Bulgarian television. How did you get there in this oligarchy, in this unfree country, this rebel man?! However, a rebel in the official television. Not there at the marginal papers where I was a journalist. I was in the little papers. My party back then is not true that it fell apart. She's alive, she's in parliament, she's in Stand up! Goons out! If I were her member, I'd leave her because I can't stand that feeling. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I just can't physically handle it, leave it mentally. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] They've changed their minds. And Mrs. Manolova was in BSP at the time, wasn't she? But now he's sitting right, she's right now, and we're centrists. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Here you are right, and the colleagues from BSP were orphaned. Some of their main speakers are sitting at the Right and I don't know what they're doing there. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So who hasn't changed their mind? Here you are, and we want majority elections immediately, which do not vote them, is a national traitor, then you come in here and say: now you can't do that, we need to think a little bit. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, I agree, we do, we need to think. It's good that you're evolving and that you're evolving even more. Here, Mr. Balabanov chased me with microphones once upon a time. A year ago, he says, "Why are you against the majority?" I say we don't mind, we do. He says, "Okay. Now he walks in here and says, "We're all for it, but let's see." [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Good. For Mrs. Stella Nikolova from "Democratic Bulgaria," I don't know what to answer because I didn't understand what you were asking me, but I'm sure you'll change your mind someday too. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u259	Mrs. Maria Capon has a procedural proposal. [[There's no time! There is no time!]] There's no time, Mrs. Capon. If it's a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u260	We don't need time for a procedure. Thank you, Madam President. I ask that we extend the meeting even though we are one hour ago, so that we are not hypocritical. [[Noise and lines.]] He's absolutely right, Mr. Bikov. I expected you to extend the time to be able to pass at first reading, to have three days for second reading and to be able to pass the Law on Monday. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u261	Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u262	Dear Madam President, I'm making a reverse proposal. Due to the importance of consultations with the Head of State on the formation of a new Central Election Commission, and due to the importance of the Budget Committee at 14.30, working hours should not be extended today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u263	Thank you. We are voting on Mrs Maria Capon's proposal for extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u264	By the end of this item, the other item on the agenda? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u265	To the end of the point, yes. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting for Mrs Maria Kapon's proposal to extend the time until the first item on the agenda is exhausted. Vote 182 MPs: 67, against 103, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u266	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps the Law on Political Parties is important and the amount of the subsidy is important, but I believe that much more important is the next point, namely the Code of Social Security, where it is about more than 2.5 million Bulgarian pensioners, I propose that we extend the working time until point 3 is viewed. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u267	Mrs. Manolova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u268	Madam President, I propose that the working hours of the National Assembly be extended until the entire agenda is exhausted. [[noise and lines]] , as the next bills are important. Get up! Get up! We have proposed that the National Assembly take a decision on receipt of 50 BGN. allowances for the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners by the end of this year. This is item four on the agenda. I demand that the agenda be fully looked at in order to make important decisions for both pension reclaiming and pension benefits by the end of 2021. In the context of a crisis, Bulgarian pensioners need support.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. The way you're holding Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u270	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll tear myself apart. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Mrs. Manolova and I are just talking, at 3:30 we will have a committee of inquiry to investigate GERB. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Now she wants us to sit here until the end of the agenda. What are we doing?! [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] I don't know which way to go. And you give some direction and some direction, or else we'll stay in one place and we'll wonder where we're going and where we're going. She and the Commission are pointless because it won't come to a report most likely, but at least there's some show there, right, and we've got a lot of people here. [[Laughter]] We're less on that show. We're a lot of people here. Let's go solve the CEC because it's a serious issue, and here this program to save people. Mrs. Manolova will do enough in the Commission, so we don't all have to sit here. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u271	Mr. Bikov, thank you. There have been two proposals. Proposal from BSP to third item, and until the agenda is exhausted. [[Noise and lines.]] In the order of entry, we first vote up to a third point of the Programme. Vote 212 MPs: 99 against 95 abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. The next offer belongs to Mrs. Maya Manolova. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u272	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, since colleagues have arrived who have failed to vote, I would like a re-vote procedure. Get up! Get up! Get up! You think about the Bulgarian pensioners, and you voted against it, just...! [[ISV lines.]] Well, two to six votes, I don't know how you guys split up. [[ISV lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u273	It's a rethink mode. Vote 216 MPs: 116, against 93, abstention 7. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "No, no!" It's not accepted. It has to be 121.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u274	Two hundred and twenty-one has been accepted! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u275	We have 116 votes against 93, abstention seven. The offer... [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. A line from BSP for Bulgaria]] I'm aware they're trying to mislead, but... That's... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I propose that we vote on Mrs. Maya Manolova's proposal. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS: is Georgi Svilenski's offer accepted or not?]] It says here it's accepted. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] When you make simple arithmetic, it turns out it's accepted, so I told you what the votes are... We collect, we subtract... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We are voting on Mrs. Maya Manolova's proposal. Vote 207 MPs: for 85, against 113, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Mrs. Maya Manolova wants a re-vote. Hasn't anyone voted, Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u276	My fellow Members, I would like a revoting procedure - they have failed to vote at the end of this House. [[Noise and lines.]] Also, colleagues on the left probably didn't realize that we were voting for the 50 levs of pensioners. A few more votes for this proposal will pass. We vote on the allowances of BGN 50. to people of the third age, that's what this is about. After all, are you for, or are you against people getting 50 leva? plus, or take them away. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u277	Rethinking Mrs. Maya Manolova's proposal. Vote 206 MPs: for 85, against 113, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. [[National Representative Dimitar Glauchev wants the floor.]] Mr. Glauchev, please come in as per procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u278	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, please explain now which point we will proceed with as we voted against the second point? There was a proposal to extend the time to the second item of the House to vote against. Then it was agreed to vote on a third point... Explain if it's written there, in fact what we're going on with now and how long we're going on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u279	First of all, we must put to the vote point 1 of the Programme.... we are not finished with point 1. [[Noise and lines.]] After that, the proposal that came from BSP was accepted and we will continue on this proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Manolova's proposal was not accepted and it is dismissed. [[Noise and lines.]] I repeat, BSP's proposal was to point three. I suggest we move on to... [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Mrs. Atanasova may be rights to point three including, or just... including point three. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mrs. Atanasova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Since there have been a lot of proposals, I think there has been a confusion in the vote. Firstly, because Mr. Svilenski and the House accepted this proposal, he proposed that the bill supplement the Social Security Code be examined in the first vote, alone. That is to say, extending the time to point three was his proposal, but the word "inclusive" was not in his proposal. I ask you to make an express reference to the transcript so that the House knows, however, what we will continue after point one and its vote and point two and its discussion and vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u281	Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u282	After all, Mrs. Atanasova, Mr. Svilensky knows best what he has proposed... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] What I have proposed, honourable Members, which you have also accepted, is to view item three including. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please, the colleagues in the information department... I gave arguments with the Social Security Code, but I said to point three including. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u283	Mr. Svilensky, with all due respect, the word "including" we really didn't hear it. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u284	Madam President, honourable Members! Let's really make a reference, because I assume that Mr. Svilenski as an experienced parliamentarians, given that point two was not accepted for viewing, made a new proposal to bypass the vote to the third, not including. So we take point two. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u285	Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u286	Madam President, honourable Members! It doesn't make sense for everyone to go out and say what they heard. I propose, anyway, in both versions of the decision that you believe has been taken, that we include point one, and point two, that we continue on the agenda, and in the meantime, we take out the transcript and it will become clear what we have adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u287	Thank you. Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u288	Madam President, I warned you that we would get to a roadblock, and now we are right in it, in its centre we do not know whether it is a second, is it a third. I will remind you once again that it does not matter whether we vote these points because we will not see them at a second reading and this whole debate here continues this scene, which we are playing since 9:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u289	Moving on to point one. Let's get the text out of the transcript. There's another statement on the record. He's giving up. If there's an offer to terminate... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Come in for a procedure, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u290	Until the transcript comes out, Madam President, honourable Members, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask for a half hour rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u291	Half-hour break at 2:15. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u292	My fellow Members, I think it's a bit tricky, but the break is over a long time ago, so we must continue our work. Let me ask: are there any other speeches on item 1 of the agenda to vote on the Law amending the Law on Political Parties? I can't see. I ask the Quaestors to invite fellow Members who are outside the Chamber, as we are about to vote. I can wait a few more seconds and I can slowly start announcing the vote. I put to the first vote the Amendment Bill... Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I ask for a name check so that this House can be assembled before such an important vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u294	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I assume you want this. I can't say no, so we're gonna have to do a roll call. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From what I understand, she did it on behalf of the management. [[Heckling]] Mrs. Capon, I assume it's on behalf of the management.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u295	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u296	Yeah, so we're starting a roll call. We'll do it quickly and I think it doesn't have to be until the end if we see that there is enough quorum, we don't have to read the names to the end. I'll ask Mrs. Nalbant to help me count. Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Simeonova Varbanova- absent Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov - here Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- absent Alexander Velislavov Todorov- absent Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Ivanov Parizov - here Alexander Nikolov Valchev - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Stykov Markov - here Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Alexander Filchev Mateev - here Alise Kamilova Murtezova - here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- here Andrey Ivanov Chorbanov - here Andrey Nikolaev Mikhailov - here Andrei Hristov Valchev - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Antoinette Andonova Stefanova- here Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- here Anton Yordanov Adamov - here Armaan Agop Babikan - here Atanas Vladislavov Slavov - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bajram Yuzkan Bajram - here Blagovest Kirilov Kirilov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boyko Petrov Cafedjiev - absent Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva - absent Boris Tsvetkov Tsvetkov - absent Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov - here Borislav Dimitrov Sandov - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Vassileva Vassileva-Filadelfevs - here Vasil Yordanov Georgiev - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velizar Mateev Shalamanov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev - here Vladislav Panchev Panev - here Faith Emilova Yordanova - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Marinova Burdarska - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Zaharinin Popov - here Georgi Yordanov Ganev - here Georgi Stanchev Georgiev - here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grigor Angelov Gorchev - here Danny Stefanova Canazireva - here Daniel Pavlov Mitov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Deliana Valerieva Pesheva - here Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova - here Desislava Angelova Todorova- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Petrov Syarov - here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Gardev - here Dimo Chavdarov Georgiev - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Dragomir Georgiev Osavkov - here Dragomir Stefanov Petrov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Enko Georgiev Naydenov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Esheref Kasim Esheref - here Zhivka Mihaleva Iron- here Zhivko Ivanov Tabakov - here Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova- here Zornitsa Nikolaeva Mikhailova- here Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- here Ivaylo Vanev Valchev - here Ivaylo Krasimirov Kozhuharov- here Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev - here Ivaylo Peev Staribratov - here Ivan Bogomilov Petkov - absent Ivan Borisov Totev - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Vassilev Hinoski - here Ivan Georgiev Velov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov - BSP for Bulgaria - here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov - DB - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Ivo Georgiev Atanasov - here Iliana Petkova Zhekova - here Ilija Dimitrov Lazarov - here Ilian Slaveykov Yonchev - here Ilko Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Svedenov Stoyanov - here Kaloyan Milkov Yankov - here Katya Maximova Paneva - here Kiril Sashev Simeonov - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Hristov Nikolov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Krum Georgiev Donchev - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Ivanov Bakardzhiev - here Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov - absent Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- here Lyubomira Simeonova Popova- here Maxim Kolev Genchev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - absent Manol Kostadinov Peykov - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Maria Vasileva Kapon - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Maston Osmanov Mastonov - here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova - absent Maya Yordanova Dimitrova - here Mika Mikhailova Zaykova - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Minko Velchev Angelov - here Miroslav Ivanov Asparuhov - here Mitko Stykov Stykov - here Mitko Hristov Kunchev - here. Colleagues, there is no point in continuing with the roll call check, surely there are already more than 121 MPs. So I suggest we continue our meeting from where we left off. I put to the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties, importers, Iva Miteva and a group of MPs, on 15 April 2021. Vote 180 MPs: 93 against 84 abstentions 3. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u297	REPLICATIONS: Revoting, revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u298	Revoting who will ask, though formally? Mr. Ibryamov, couldn't anyone vote? Please motivate yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u299	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I would like a re-vote procedure because a short time ago, a colleague who entered the House last failed to vote. Another colleague is entering, so re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u300	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Nothing prevents us from doing this procedure, the rules allow it. Please, re-vote procedure. Vote 168 MPs: 76 against 86, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. With this, the first item on the agenda has been exhausted. Moving on to point two: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE SOCIAL ASSINATION CODE. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, 15 April 2021 Since there is no Report from the Commission, I give the floor to the importers. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u301	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I thank you for the opportunity before the first vote to present to you a bill for supplementing the Social Security Code with No 154-01-4, submitted to the National Assembly on 15 April by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. In practice, an importer of the bill is the entire parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. This is our commitment to the people of retirement age. The proposal itself is to add to the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code a new paragraph to order the recalculation of all pensions for employment granted until 31 December 2017 and this recalculation takes place from 1 July 2021 and the individual coefficient of the person is multiplied by the average monthly social income for the country for 2018, after which the amount of the pension is determined under the terms and conditions of art. Art. 70, Art. Art. 75, Art. 79 of the Social Security Code and the average insurance income for 2018 is 889,90 BGN. We have provided for the recalculation of pensions to be carried out only if it is more favourable to the person. Our motives are that the main function of the pension system is to provide protection of the income of elderly people after their retirement from the labour market, to protect them from poverty and to guarantee them an acceptable level of replacement of their income after retirement. Does the Bulgarian pension system perform this main function? The answer is definitely no. If we say that Bulgarian pensioners are the most unjust people in Bulgaria and live day by day, we will be right for at least 90 percent of them. If we say they've been forgotten by the government for the past 30 years, with little exception, we'll be 100% right. What do I mean by slowing down? No one in this House can deny the obvious that pensions for insurance service and age in our country, which the Bill is about, are inadequate and unduly low, and in the pension system are accumulated problems and distortions, for which the government did not want to acknowledge in the last 11 years and stubbornly did not want to be discussed. These problems practically date back to the beginning of the model of the pension insurance system, with the most serious event after 2000, when a radical pension reform in the Bulgarian pension system took place. It was introduced as part of Bulgaria's commitments to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and did not bring any good to the Bulgarian pensioners, because today This concerns, with particular importance, the objective of increasing the overall level of pension protection with a view to ensuring the better material situation of current and future pensioners, as well as achieving greater social justice in pension provision, i.e. adequate amounts of pensions, which will allow pensioners to live normally. It is quite obvious that today we still need a broad public debate on the future of the Bulgarian pension system, including the size of pensions. Can it provide at least two thirds of Bulgarians with adequate pensions to allow them to live normally and for the remaining one third to think of support through the social system? All decisions and actions after 2000 should be analyzed, as well as the missed opportunities and concrete actions that led the Bulgarian pension system to its current state of public confidence, low pensions, financial instability and inability to meet the long-term demographic, economic and social challenges. At last, the national representation and those who manage the Bulgarian pension system must recognise that today it cannot provide adequate pensions and that if no measures are taken, Bulgarian pensioners will be exposed to a strong risk of poverty in the future, the coefficient of replacement of past benefits will be reduced and pensions from private pension funds will hardly be able to compensate for the decrease in the adequacy of pensions. There are extremely many challenges and the unknown to the role not only of universal but also of professional pension funds to provide decent living conditions for elderly people in the future, and additional compulsory pension provision cannot obviously meet the increased expectations for it. In practice, the number of adults will grow more and more, the number of pensioners will decrease, more and more pensioners will live below the poverty line, relying on the pension system for their maintenance, and a small part of Bulgarian citizens have incomes at the limit of physical survival. To the most extent, this applies to pensioners and people over the age of 65. Poor elderly people have grown from 22.6% in 2014 to 29.2% in 2018, and in the last two years the trend is no exception. In a poverty line of 369 BGN. for 2021 the minimum pension for internship and age from 1 January is BGN 300. The average pension for 2021 is expected to be around 490 BGN and over 1 million and 300,000 pensioners Another question is how was the minimum pension raised to that amount and why all the other pensions were not raised proportionately. Another question is how the poverty limit of BGN 369 is defined. Until now, neither in the short term nor in the long term is envisaged any significant change in the amount of pensions, except for the annual update of 1 July. The situation is intolerable and urgent measures are required not to violate the basic principles of insurance and not to demotivate the young Bulgarians at all, such as an increase of only the minimum pension. In our view, such a measure is the recalculation of pensions proposed by us. A fundamental principle in providing is the equality and solidarity of the insured persons. In accordance with art. 70 of the Social Security Code, the amount of the pension for internship and age depends, first, on the country's average monthly income for the last 20 months before retirement, the ratio between the insurance income of the person and the average insurance income of the country for a certain period and the insurance internship of the person. In compliance with this principle of equal treatment, insured persons with the same social security contribution, the same duration of the insurance service and the same ratio between the insurance income of the person and the average insurance income of the country for the defined period should receive close-by-size pensions for insurance service and age. Because the average social security income for the country over the years is different, even with the same contribution of the persons, the amount of their pensions is significantly different. It is time to recalculate all pensions once and for all and become the norm! Our belief and our approach to this problem is to recalculate pensions if possible with the average insurance income from the last year and then update them every year with the growth of the social security income absolutely all pensions, and not to do this once every 20 years or to update them under some inadequate rules, which proved to be the so-called Swiss rule, art. 100 of the Social Security Code, which leads to a serious lag in old pensions compared to newly allocated pensions. The last such recalculation was carried out in 2008 with the average social security income for 2007. "398.17 lv. You all know by whom this proposal was proposed and by whom, but just in case, I would like to remind the BSP. The average social security income for 2018 BGN 889,90 has increased more than twice compared to the average insurance income for 2007, which I told you was 398,17 BGN. As a result, in the last 10 years the differences between the old and new pensions, with the same contribution of the insured person, have become significant. This condemns not a small part of the Bulgarian pensioners despite their insurance contribution to receive low pensions and to actually squalor. Apart from this, it opposes the people with the old pensions of the new pensioners and discourages working people from providing themselves with their real income. Recalculating pensions is imperative! Unfortunately, all the proposals so far have been rejected and the solutions are becoming more expensive. Recalculating pensions with the average social security income for 2018 would partially clear the inequality issues, but the next steps should be planned for adequate pensions. The proposed recalculation is only one of the necessary steps for a lasting solution, but it is important because otherwise the problem with one of the basic principles of insurance, as is the equal treatment of insured persons, will deepen. Any delay in the decision in the future will require increasing and greater financial resources. Together with the Bill on the grounds of art. 76, para. 1 sentence last of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly prepared a preliminary impact assessment according to the methodology applied to the Rules. I remain with the expectation of support from all the parliamentary groups so that we can say that this National Assembly, which so far has been concerned only and exclusively with itself and has been woven out of all the proposals for populism, at least to do one useful thing for the group of people who are not good in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u302	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to speak, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u303	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable colleagues, from the Parliamentary Group. We will support the bill because we ourselves have a Law No 154-01-53 from April 26, which we have imported under the Social Security Code. The bill, which was presented to us by colleagues from Left, has nothing to do with left and right. It's about our parents, it's about every single one of the people we meet somewhere in the country who've had a decent job. So today it may be very interesting that on our part this bill is signed by people who have ever been considered on the left side of the axis and other times on the right. Because this bill of our parliamentary group is signed by both Mrs. Manolova and Mr. Babikan, so myself and the other Members of the parliamentary group, because, when it comes to updating, about the normal income of the people of retirement age, we cannot have different motives, because each of us is faced with looking people in the eye in each of our campaigns. Our bill, like that of the Left, aims to create a balance between the pensions of the people who have retired before 2018, and those after. They increase the pensions to about 75% of Bulgarian pensioners. The latest recalculation of pensions in Bulgaria.. just as my colleague said was done in 2008 and led to an increase in pensions of 62.6% of the elderly. At that time, the average social security income, which formed the final amount of pensions, was BGN 398.17. We, as importers, propose 13 years later that all pensions should be indicated in relation to the average insurance income in 2015 amounting to BGN 889,90. I say all this because during a normal meeting of the National Assembly the two bills had to be collected, examined in committee, a general decision on them should be taken. We're in some kind of emergency situation where each one of us has to decide what kind of sign he's giving. Some call this hypocrisy, some we call this policy because it is a policy that we would have conducted, regardless of the lives of a National Assembly and with signatures as importers we say that there should be real support and financial support because in our text, and I am sure that the colleagues from the Left will agree with it, there is an additional part, there is also a financial support for food products of 120 BGN, which was introduced by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, to apply to pensioners with a minimum pension under 300, 01 BGN. I think the colleagues who were in the 44th National Assembly know about this problem as it is. This additional support will be obtained from over 1 million pensioners with the amount of pension under BGN 300,01. I would like to turn your attention once again at the end, because the discussion will certainly be very interesting, the number of Bulgarian citizens - our parents - under BGN 300,01 - is 1 million. Seventy-seven thousand. 427 retired to the last reference we have. So today it is about politics and your vote, as we did with the vote, which was about the subsidy of political parties, as we did with other votes, are to give the sign of what we will work for, no matter how long a National Assembly is and what will come next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. - What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u305	Didn't she introduce the bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u306	No, it's a statement. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u307	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs Capon, thank you for the support of our bill, all the more so that you have a similar one from your parliamentary group. I would like to disagree with you because you say: there is no left or right. Now you'll see, because it's going to show up on the vote, whether there's a left and a right. I am pretty sure that my colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" will not support this proposal because they follow the right policy, which does not include these things that we offer in this bill. I would be very surprised if they supported this bill, but I doubt that. With everything you've said, I absolutely agree. Yes, this proposal is consistent. We have been offering it since 2017, from the first moment of the 44th National Assembly until now. It is good that you have tabled a bill now and it is in the same direction as ours and, yes, in a normal National Assembly, in a normal context these bills would be collected together, seen in the Commission and then proposed a united version of the people's representation for voting. Unfortunately, this is not happening, but I think that if we accept our version, which is hardly different from your version, I do not know why you say that your insurance income is for 2015, by mentioning this for 2018, maybe it is a lapsus or a mistake you made, but 2018 is not the best solution, only it is only possible at the moment. In our accounts and calculations, the financial resources above the pension system would last until 2018, and the real good for these people -- excuse me -- at the retirement age -- would be a recalculation of the average social security income for 2020. Only it costs a hell of a lot because we postponed this thing to do 20 years, but it has to be done with the last year and then every year to have an adequate update of pensions. The other one's not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u308	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Capon, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u309	Thank you for the line. Maybe when I talk about left and right, I'm talking about each one of our parents, about those who don't matter who they vote for - whether they vote for -- Democratic Bulgaria -- whether they vote for DPS, whether they vote for BSP, whether they vote for GERB. These people are definitely not marked. The only thing we see is that they live in misery, that's the only thing. So for me personally, this is the only way, while in the country there is normal insurance, in which we can pay the normal pensions that people have earned, regardless of the time they have worked. When you tell a teacher that he worked 42 years or 45 years and retired early enough somehow, he just got his life together, and today he gets under 300 BGN, you know, I don't care if his kids or he voted for me or voted for you. That's what I meant. Otherwise, the left and right have many other indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u310	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Glauchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u311	Madam President, honourable Members! What we are presented as a bill amending the Social Security Code is a clear example of political imitation, hypocrisy and populism. First, that the normal course of the bill was ignored. I do not recall any such case in which it is a matter of spending budget funds, that the bill did not go through the Budget Commission first, as is this case, and this is not an accident. It is no coincidence that such bills are dealt with in the Budget Committee because there are collected opinions from the Ministry of Finance, the National Insurance Institute and a bunch of others. Nothing like this happened to this bill. They couldn't wait until 2.30 pm to hear these opinions, which are ready, by the way, and decided on the path of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to propose in the Draft Programme. On top of that, it does not meet the requirements, as I told you this morning and this paragraph. If in other bills that we have seen in the short existence of this Parliament, it could be recorded: If possible, here be assured that what they offer is absolutely impossible. And now I'm going to explain why. There is no provision for such funds as they propose to be spent in the budget of state social security. In order to provide for an update of the state budget and the State social security budget, respectively. Today, by 11.00 the Bill's importers had the opportunity to submit a draft to a cabinet to implement a government and all that you propose in this bill to become a fact by making an update of the budget. Otherwise, without an update of the budget, I think that colleagues from the Budget Committee in your group can explain to you, I purposely refer to you, because the Budget Committee made it clear, without an update of the budget, there is no way that this could happen. You offer something that is impossible now for realization. The caretaker government does not have the authority to update a budget. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you raise your hand for a line? [[(Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Yes"! Yes!]] Thank you. So at the earliest this thing could happen, I deliberately call it something, not a bill. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria: "Eee! "]] In the next National Assembly and you should know this, otherwise I really don't know what we're talking about. However, not only here if it is possible, but this is not possible to happen in this Parliament. Once again, the caretaker government cannot update a budget. Besides, you said it would cost a lot of money. Why don't you tell me exactly how much it's gonna cost, you know how much it's gonna cost? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For all your proposals about 12 billion. For this year there are nearly 2 billion and 3 billion each.... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Read the opinions of the NSI, I do not speak by heart unlike you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u312	Twelve billion for pensions?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u313	For the next four years.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u314	Please don't engage in dialogue! Mr. Glauchev, go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u315	For the next four years. Look at the opinions, but two billion is still enough for this year. Two billion won't be anything for you that can't be done without an update. See, that's the point. Without a budget update, this cannot happen. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's a frivolous fling you're making. I'm explaining to you how this works. It is true that 2008 was the last time you updated, but what stopped you from making this update when you were in power, as I recall? Then why didn't you? But that's all in the past. Leave him alone. In our government, we didn't offer things that couldn't happen. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u316	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u317	We made the minimum pension 300 leva. Ask the pensioners, each month 50 leva. You can also ask them. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Offer something you can really do, and it's really hypocritical, even weak is the word. Three hours after you have returned a government mandate, to propose something that can only make it a regular government. Very weak is the word I use that is hypocritical. You're just offering something impossible, and you know it, and you know that you're doing a pre-election campaign right now and nothing more. Otherwise, yes, pensions are low and there is no person in the room who does not say that pensions are low, they are humiliating, but let someone take responsibility for it. We did what we could. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Hey!?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u318	Mr. Glauchev, please do not engage in dialogue with the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u319	I'm not going in! I'm not going in!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u320	Please from BSP for Bulgaria, you will have the right to lines after this!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u321	But he didn't understand what it was about. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u322	Mr. Mirchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u323	You're gonna get bitten by a parrot!? [[Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u324	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. For lines, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u325	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Glauchev, you have explained very inconclusively why this can't happen in your opinion, but I have to ask you because you said that this didn't go through the Budget Committee. The 50 levs with which you bought the Bulgarian pensioners every month for the elections, did they go through the Budget Commission? Did 100 BGN go through the Budget Commission, which were again directly given to support the Bulgarian pensioners in order to better present the elections of the Political Party GERB? You manage for 10 years and say: 2013 Why didn't BSP do it? We have been working on your budget on the budget you adopted and explaining to BSP colleagues that all this needs to go through a budget update... Look, we have submitted such a proposal, and from whom can the update be made? You explained that by the Council of Ministers, but, Mr. Glauchev, when we will eradicate poverty in Bulgaria, because all attempts that have been imitated by your governments over time have resulted in no result. Let's vote on this law. I ask you to vote on this law so that at least Bulgarian pensioners can have a spark of light in the tunnel in which you left them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u326	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u327	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Glauchev, a lot of demagogy here, from this tribune. It could not happen, it was not foreseen in the budget, some procedures were violated in the National Assembly. Mr. Glauchev, and in the previous National Assembly do you know how many times we have submitted this bill, including in the budget? Why didn't you see that coming? Were any procedures violated at the time? Why didn't you see it in the budget for this year, for last year, for the year before, when we submitted the same bill? And now here you were concerned about the Bulgarian pensioners!? Yeah, yeah, but not as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u328	Thank you. Third line? Here you go, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u329	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Glauchev, colleagues! Just 10 minutes ago, you voted to keep your grant, didn't you? You brought nine ravens of water to prove that you must have millions in your subsidy, and now for the Bulgarian pensioners there is no money. Oh, yeah? Don't you remember what Mr. Finance Minister said that our fiscal reserve is in great condition and there are 8.5 billion there. Well, colleagues from the two groups have calculated how much they need -- 185 million. lv. by the end of the year, we need 1 billion. 110 million. Excuse me, colleagues, as you brought from nine ravens of water to prove that you have to keep the millions in the grant, so now you will find money for the Bulgarian pensioners. Do you know how to live with 300 leva? or 330 BGN, even 900 BGN. We cannot, gentlemen, the Bulgarian pensioners are miserable. They are the poorest in Europe. Aren't you embarrassed to say there's no money!? I heard Mrs. Sacheva two days ago said she didn't have any money. For everything else you have the money to put it in the subsidy and you have no money for the Bulgarian pensioners!? You'll find it! There's money in the fiscal reserve. [[Burning applause from IHN and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u330	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u331	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zaykova, I expected more professionalism from you. [[(Noise and lines:) Shame on you!]] I voted in favour of the proposal you can check for the proposal for a lev subsidy. [[Noise and lines:]] However, the subsidy does not go to the revenue side of the government's social security budget. I think you know this thing where expenditure should be made. I explained that pensions are very low, but what we have before us as a proposal must go through an update of the budget. If we had a government, we would have proposed it, but you didn't want us to have a government. Today, BSP colleagues have had the opportunity to make a government - they do not want to do. There must be a regular government in order to update the budget that is the way. [[Noise and lines.]] What more can I say? Who said anything about the Bulgarian pensioners? Mr. Gokov or not? Bulgarian pensioners are not sold if you do not understand that. If you're trying to buy, we haven't tried that. [[Radio, laughter, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u332	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. The way you're leading it? Please, let's find out what I've broken.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u333	Madam President, I have a huge request to you as you are the President of this Parliament. There are people in this room who have accompanying diseases, people of age, and I'm going to ask the immortals to put on their masks. My wife works at Pirogov and leads two floors with Kovid drama is very big. You're scratching your tongue here, and I want to tell you that they won't be able to get a pension from you because you're going to kill them. Put on your masks! [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u334	I see MPs without masks from BSP for Bulgaria. I ask you to put on your masks. Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u335	Madam President, thank you. My fellow Members, I have to watch my time, because I have three things to say. The first will be in my capacity as President of the Commission, however temporary, and I will be responsible for budget and finance. I felt a little this morning in the National Assembly... when these planes and helicopters flew over the top like our committee was gone. I find this at least disrespectful to the institutional order of adoption of laws in Bulgaria. Moreover, the institutional order of adoption of laws, which affects a huge number of Bulgarian citizens. In my opinion, it should be a little more responsible, not as my mother would say. In the Commission, which was to be held today, I think we are going again to call off the meeting. There was supposed to be this meeting where to look at these bills last Thursday, she didn't má. Nemá did it because Wednesday's session failed, and it fell with one vote from a party that now wants to raise people's pensions. [[Heckling]] He couldn't. If you had voted on the agenda a normal meeting on Wednesday, on Thursday this would have been viewed by the Commission, there would have been a normal report and it would have been submitted today at first reading, after all possible opinions, accounts have been heard, because obviously there is a serious difference between the accounts of the importers and the accounts of the NSI. With regard to how much the recalculation of pensions will cost on the basis of 2018 As time progresses point two: dear viewers, not a penny, not a penny of any Bulgarian pensioner, the pension will not change from everything said and voted here today. It will not change because even if this is accepted for some magical reason at second reading ever, which can hardly happen in this Parliament, because there are some three days for proposals between readings. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u336	They're gone, too, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u337	I don't see how this Parliament will survive more than one more, maximum two plenary sessions. There is no time for a vote at second reading. This one first. Secondly, even if you vote at second reading, you don't have the money. This is a memorial not with a foreign cake, but without a cake and it is nice that all Bulgarian pensioners know that there is no money for such a thing. That money doesn't exist. In other words, what we can do today the most is to ignite a spark of hope that will be drowned in a week's time and die to be destroyed. Most likely some people rely on the muddy water of this dying hope to catch a voice that I do not agree with. Finally, the third thing I want to say: the calculation and the basis of the calculation of pensions with corresponding social income for which year is not the problem of the Bulgarian pension system. The problem of the Bulgarian pension system is that it is in total inability to provide any decent income to the Bulgarian pensioners. And this problem is due to the simultaneous existence of three things: a declining population, an ageing population and a lack of an increase in retirement age. [[Noise and lines.]] These three things at the same time mean misery for the Bulgarian pensioners, whatever we vote here, because with an ageing and declining population a smaller number of workers will endure an increasing number of pensioners. It is physically impossible for one worker to support two pensioners and these two pensioners to live well. That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen. That's impossible. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u338	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u339	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, Mr. Ganev, when I heard you at point two and three, I understood why the Committee on Budget and Finance, whether it and temporary, has not had time to examine this most important bill. Don't pretend you're something that passes you a plane or something, it's just that you, as chairman, shouldn't have delayed looking at the point last Wednesday, you should have looked at it. On Thursday, let us have a report to be seen in plenary on Friday, and today, let us look at a second vote. This was to be done and Bulgarian pensioners would know whether or not there was money and whether or not pensions should be updated. But you clearly said you wanted an increase in retirement age. You clearly said you didn't want to raise pensions and there is nothing more to comment on. The citizens of the Bulgarian voters understood what they were fighting for for for high age for retirement, for low pensions and what they could get as much as they had. Then someone comes and says 300 leva, 310 leva. So the person responsible for not having a Commission report today is you, Mr. Ganev, and no one else, because you are the chairman of this committee and the lack of support that we made at your election, now shows how many rights the parliamentary group was when it did not support you for the chair of this committee. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u340	Thank you. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u341	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ganev! Mrs. Capon, do you see that there's a left and a right? Because on the right, they tell you how there's no money for it, and there's money for airplanes that are still on blueprints, and they're flying through the sky. On the right, they explain to you how with an average life expectancy in Bulgaria 72-73 years the Bulgarians must work until 75 years, because the current age... And that is not true at all, Mr. Ganev, that there is no increase in age because 2016 was raised to 65. It's a smooth approach. It's about 64 and something for men, so there's an age increase. And with this average life expectancy in Bulgaria, there is no way to talk about a greater increase in age. Mr. Ganev, stop talking: there is no money, the budget... The bill can be adopted quite calmly, to start paying them from July 1st, as provided for in it, and to the end a new government will enter and update the budget. For the first few months there is a reserve in the pension system to pay pensions. The other thing you falsely said would not increase, no one would get any of this recalculation of pensions. I don't know, you can say that to me and to colleagues here in the Chamber, but tell it to these pensioners if they hadn't received this recalculation in 2007, at what level their pensions would be at right now! What do you explain to them? That that calculation didn't bring them anything in total for the period 2005 - 2009 - only a 120% increase in pensions, did it? [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So, Mrs. Capon, I'm sorry to call you again, because there's no point in Mr. Ganev having a left, there's a right. The left one takes care of the people, the right one doesn't know what it's for. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u342	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Dobrev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u343	Mr. Ganev, I am very pleasantly surprised by your speech, because very rarely in this House the truth is heard when it is unpleasant, as in this case. Only you didn't say anything else. It's not about whether the money is there or not. Money can always be found. We are from GERB for the payment of these 50 BGN because we first introduced it. Now everyone liked this idea very much, although they criticised it in the past, and decided to continue this policy that GERB introduced. So the problem is not finding the money.. can increase the deficit, you can borrow, you can reduce the party subsidy. Ms. Zaykova, your speech was manipulative because we at GERB voted to reduce subsidies. I mean, blaming us for voting against it is unfair. You were in the hall, and you saw the result. But, Mr. Ganev, my line to you is that this money is not in the spending part of the NSI budget. So even if this law hypothetically passes at second reading in this room [[Replication by National Representative Hassan Ademov]] , without an update of the budget and additional transfer from the state budget to the budget of the NSI here is Professor Ademov, he can also confirm it and increased spending limit in the budget of the NSI, nothing can happen! That is, here some parties on the left and on the right, by the way, because there is also a right party that stands next to you, make policy on the back of the Bulgarian pensioners. It is not the question whether the money is there or not; it is not the question whether this law will be passed to the end or whether this law will be passed to the end. The question is who will update the budget if there is no government! [[Reply from the left block: "Next! "]] You know that only the government can submit to a working parliament, and this one is dissolved next week, an update of the budget! That is, what we have been listening to here for half an hour, except for your speech and Mr. Glauchev's speech is party propaganda in view of the upcoming elections in two months. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u344	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Ganev, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u345	Thank you, Madam President. In order of numbers or perhaps not quite in order of numbers. With regard to Wednesday's vote. On Wednesday, there were no opinions of anyone on these bills. And as we've established, there are major differences, we are talking about double between the calculations of the importers and the calculations of the NSI, about how much the recalculation of pensions will cost within a year and within a four-year horizon. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Accordingly, it is good for the Commission to hear the opinion of the NSI, to hear the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, of other state institutions, which are also entrusted with responsibilities, regardless of the personnel that are occupying them at the moment. It is therefore irresponsible to the Bulgarian taxpayers and to the members of the Bulgarian society to adopt laws without making the bills! It's irresponsible! At least that's how I know it. Call it, if you want, right, if you want, call it a cannibal, and I want to eat people, but I find it irresponsible! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Moreover, the key thing that should never be forgotten is that it is still important for every pensioner not how much money he gets, but what he can buy with them. And that's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u346	And how long he gets them!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u347	Regarding what Mr. Dobrev said, I completely agree. This, of course, is a little pό technical issues, but there is no way, without changing the state budget and the budget of the NSI, to happen this thing because, who makes such a payment or head of the NSI, will be prosecuted criminally, as far as I know, for failure to comply with the State Budget Act. So we need to change the budget. And the argument we now have to change the Code and then change the budget is to spend some money before they are guaranteed. I find this to be an irresponsible attitude, a carefree attitude towards the Bulgarian beneficiaries again. Just a remark to Mr. Dobrev. This bill is for recalculation of pensions, not for the 50 levs "50 levs" is another bill, there are 185 million per month. I still have half a minute. I mean, the main task is not just to hear it on the air, that someone is going to increase the standard of living of the Bulgarian pensioners. If there's one in this room, raise your hand. There isn't one! We all want them to live better! The point is that it becomes responsible. [[Relations from the left block: "Search! "]] Because there's no way, again... Right now we have employees in the labour force, the main number of people who are paying insurance, and there are not 300,000 people, and we have so many pensioners. Well, there's no way the pensioners can live well! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There's no way! [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u348	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u349	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The way the discussion is being held so far on such an important issue, be assured, disgusts the Bulgarian pensioners. Next, it is counterproductive both for the state social security budget and counterproductive for those who are importers of the Bill. Why am I saying this? This is extremely important. It is not true what Mr. Ganev says that this could not have happened. Check the Public Finance Act in his art. 16 It is said that the National Assembly cannot, within the course of the budget year, undertake commitments that are financially binding! Only he may propose that this happen from January 1st next year! Do you rule out this possibility? You can't rule it out, it's legal! Next. There's talk of left-wing, right-wing policy, left-hand side of the room, right-hand side. Ladies and gentlemen, although there are experts who say that there are left and right instruments of social policy, social policy, in general, is the possible policy that can be implemented! Everything else is in the sphere of illusions, everything else is in the area of what you want to achieve without knowing how to achieve it. I would like to say a few words, returning to the Bill, because everything that has been said so far has very little in common with the Bill. What do colleagues from BSP offer for Bulgaria and not for the first time? And it's not true that there were no opinions! Yes, from the point of view of procedures and rules, it is true because it is at the heart of democracy, so should be rules and procedures. However, colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria...................... this project under the rules......................................... is imported for the fifth or sixth time...................................................................................... This does not mean that the most important element in this discussion is that there are no opinions. It's not true. There are opinions. There is even an opinion that is interested in the Committee on Insurance Relations at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation! If someone hasn't read that statement, unfortunately... I say it is a great regret, because the political decision of our parliamentary group is to support this proposal. Of course, there are also expert things that I will say a little further in the statement about how it can happen, when it can happen, under what conditions it can happen. The National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, the Committee on Insurance Relations, rejects this bill. The only people who have supported the bill are colleagues from "Support." This is in the opinion of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, read it, Committee on Insurance Relations. It's a statement from a day or two ago. Colleagues, the conditions in which we are currently in the pre-election situation, the start of the election campaign. There have been other years in which the political forces involved in the election race have tried to fuck up, and I apologize for this expression, as has happened at the moment, by the way, on the topic of social policy, social opportunities, with a view only and only in some way to please His Majesty the electorate, to get the confidence at the expense of many other decisions that I will be talking about in a moment. Why am I saying this? Because I want to return those who do not remember 2008 and 2009. Notice, 2009, July is the parliamentary elections. Prior to that, the month of October 2008 will be spent on pensions with the insurance income for 2007. There are five other social measures related to Bulgarian pensioners and Bulgarian mothers! I'll tell you one by one, so you can see exactly what this is about. The first measure I said just now. The second is: from 1 January 2009 minimum pensions for internship and age increased by 10%. Since April 2009, the service year internship ratio of one has become 1.1, which in practice means a 10% increase in pensions. Next, again from April 1st, the maximum pension for internship and age of BGN 490. It's £700.! Next, from July 1st update of pensions again with 9% "five measures that concern pensions. And another measure that concerns mothers. The maternity period of 315 became 410 days. It was a proposal from the Triple Coalition. And you know who won the election? GERB. So watch out for the social proposals, especially those that are not well-grounded enough, especially those for which there can be no evidence in the sense that they will help the Bulgarian pensioners. Dear colleagues, I would like to say a few more words. What is the definition of retirement? The point here is that you can't go through with this amount of pensions. Yeah, that's right! However, the universal definition of a pension is the income of the earners. I mean, while you were working, while you were in a labor relationship, you got a salary, and the pension is a percentage of that salary. Substitute income from labor! Universal definition! Which basically means you can't satisfy all your needs with your income from labor. That's not gonna happen! That is why the state and the Constitution have invented another security network and this is the social support network. Only there's an income criterion there, and that's holding everyone else's cock together. Dear colleagues, why am I saying all these things? To get to the size of the pension. As they say, size always matters. The amount of the pension shall be determined by multiplying the income by the years of service by a coefficient of 1.2. Here's one of the problems of the pension system. The coefficient 1.2 was halted by colleagues from GERB 2019. The 2015 reform, again of GERB and "United Patriarchs" said that this coefficient should be increased to 1.5. It's a natural way of increasing the pension. Why should colleagues, when we suggested that this coefficient should be increased instead of 1.2, be 1.3, with a 10% increase, you rejected this proposal? A natural way! That is, in order to be able to rely on the Bulgarian pensioners in their insurance contribution to receive the amount of pension they deserve according to the pension formula, there must be another coefficient each year, not the one that is stopped, which is fixed! Next. How is this income determined? The income shall be determined by multiplying the individual pension coefficient by the monthly average social security income 12 months before the date of retirement. So what happens now? Since Mr. Gokov, I apologize, Mr. Gokov, is very active on this subject, I will set an example with him, come with Mrs. Kapon. For example, Mr. Gokov retired 10 years ago. It has an individual coefficient that is calculated: its income on the average social security income for the country at that time, because pension production is production and it is at some point the amount of pension at that time. Next, what fellow Members say is that those who have the same contribution, respectively, have the same individual coefficient. But you can't have the same individual coefficient ever! Do you know why? Because every month the insurance income changes, respectively the individual coefficient changes. Each year the average social security income grows, which means that the one with a newly released pension will always have a larger amount. And here comes the question: how should pensions be updated so that they do not fall behind the so-called old pensions, although there is no such concept as old pensions. Now look what it's about. Colleagues, we have adopted over the years the so-called Golden Swiss Rule. The golden Swiss rule says: "Improving pensions with 50% increase in insurance income and 50% increase in inflation. But notice, 2007 inflation was 8.1%, 2020 inflation was 0.1%. At the same time, the insurance income has grown nearly three times and is currently BGN 1157.77. Last month, 2007 was 398,17 BGN. As the insurance income grows rapidly, at an accelerated rate, and inflation falls, we cannot expect this called the Golden Swiss rule to solve the problem of the so-called old pensions. Therefore, we at the DPS every year propose that this ratio be 75% insurance income, 25% inflation in the course of the budgetary procedure so that the so-called old pensions do not fall behind. However, there is no one who will accept these proposals............ whether by misunderstanding or for any other reason, I do not know. Next. Colleagues, what is now being proposed, let's see the total number of pensions, not of pensioners, of pensions. The total number of pensions currently at the end of April is 2 million. 108,000. On the proposal, which is being made, an increase will receive 56%, and that is 1 million. 178,000. and 100 pensions will receive an increase on the proposal made by colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria................................................................................................... So, two million. 108,000. pensions, increase will receive 56%, 44% will not receive an increase. Why? Because 61,000. 300 is the pensions paid by the state budget. They are outside pensions, non-employment-related, are called, for which the state budget pays. Next, the pensions granted after 31 December 2017, of course they will have another insurance income, they will not get an increase of 285 thousand. And 600. Disadvantaged pensions are also available. And the largest group of stakes, which after recalculation again remain at the minimum size. Because now it is clear that those who receive 300 leva. The amount of pension required by the pension does not exceed 70% of it. Both the political decision of GERB and of the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) made that half of Bulgarian pensioners are of minimal size. Why do I say all these things, why do I give these examples? Because what we're offering right now is worth $1 billion. 110 million. by the end of the year, additional expenditure from the state social security budget. That money in the state social security budget is gone. However, I will also say something else - there are no 50 levs, which are given by a decree of the Council of Ministers for April and May, because the budget of state social security has a little over 300 million. lv. to pay these 50 levs. for the first months of January, February and March. The other money's gone. How do we pay them if they're not here? How? With buffers, what with reducing some estimated costs, this is not clear at this stage. Next, fellow Members, here on the subject airplanes have passed airplanes and so on, I have heard a line that I want to share with you two billion or how many billion are given for airplanes. Honourable Members, the Fund's budget for the year 2021 Only pensions, without maternal compensation and other risky ones, is 12 billion. 137 million. The Commission therefore concludes that 137 million.! While planes or other costs are a one-off cost, pensions are paid monthly, each month. Every God's month, the National Insurance Institute translates 980 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. only for this humiliating low growth of pensions in Bulgaria! The transfer, which makes the state budget to the state social security budget, is over 6 billion. 100 million. This is the actual situation of the budget. Fairy tales such as this should have an opinion. Of course there should be an opinion, we should listen to experts' opinions. Yeah, well, we've heard it a long time ago, and we know it. That's not the problem, the problem is that if we want this recalculation to happen, we can do it. If we want to bequeath to the next National Assembly an empty check, we can accept it the way it is proposed. If we want to comply with legislation, we can accept the idea of recalculation and say that with the next year's budget we are doing what is called a recalculation. These are the arguments with which I wanted to express our position. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u350	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mrs. Rabbikova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u351	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ademov, you know how much I respect and respect your expertise, but you also said something true that pension is a substitute income. Oh, yeah? But you didn't say how much is the replacement income? I'll say it right now: this is 35%, ladies and gentlemen, and in Europe there is no substitute income for a pension below 70%. And there are countries like Scandinavian, where there are 80 and 90%. Let me know when you get a salary of £1,000. And get a pension of 300 leva. Or 350 leva. Is this a substitute income or a collapse in the abyss of insolvency? That's why I want to ask you. I respect what Mr. Ademov said, but there's a way out of this anyway, ladies and gentlemen. And that is why I ask you to vote really for the update of pensions, because the condition of the Bulgarian pensioners is humiliating. Remember that the maintenance that the CST colleagues have considered and which does not reach any pensioner, at any of them, is for past prices. There's a heating price, electricity, water with a 10 percent increase. There is no product of those who are of primary necessity that... Yes, really ironed inflation, Mr. Ademov is not 0.8%, and is already about 3%, but ironed because the oil is 14%, the milk is 10%, the rest: sugar, cheese, butter, milk is all by over 5%. Go to the store and you'll see. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. Mr. Ganev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u353	Thank you, Madam President. A very quick reply to Mr. Ademov, accepting all the remarks that there were opinions in previous imports. Of course, they have never been in this particular situation that we are in right now. I completely agree with... In fact, for me the most important thing you said: if the date of entry into force was 1 January 2022, under fear of beating the mother-in-law, I would vote for. But from 1 July 2021 it is irresponsible. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u354	Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u355	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm extremely disappointed in a place like this to hear something happen. We're not chosen to be here and explain for hours why and how it's not going to happen. Let us just admit that this bill could have been passed if the report by the Commission had not been delayed. [[Applause from IHN.]] Let us also acknowledge that all social bills have been delayed by both this committee and Health. Let's face it, it wasn't exactly necessary for this major bill to come in right now for discussion. There could have been more undisputed social laws coming in for discussion, which are also, as was the Personal Aid Act,... 80 million extraordinary budget for this year, there was also a proposal for students from BSP, but I will not comment on that at the moment. What we all know is that a budget could have been updated and could have been entered before the amendments were voted and there could have been a discussion only for three days, and it could have been at the time of the second vote, if there was a second vote, this proposal would have been from 1 January 2022. The other, let us think in the next parliament to have immediately organised Social Committee, Social Policy Committee, so that it can submit reports on its own based on experience, based on all opinions and estimates that have already been made so many times and postponed continuously so that it can submit its reports as quickly as possible. That's my offer. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u356	Thank you, Mrs. Peneva. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u357	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, thank you for your lines. Back and forth. Dear Mrs. Peneva, I have talked all the time about how this could happen despite these proposals, despite the way in which this proposal of colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria was made. However, the more important question is another: whether or not the committees could have been sitting on the committee could have. But in these emergency situations, it is obvious that it is not of the utmost importance whether or not there is an opinion of the committee. Next, Mr. Ganev, this date has not been stated, this date has been stated in the Public Finance Act. This is a text in the Public Finance Act, which says that in the course of the calendar year, bills can not be adopted which additionally burden the budget with unforeseen revenues and unforeseen costs. That is, this can happen, there is no way to limit the legislative initiative, but this can happen by providing for the budget for next year. However, now another important issue has also been addressed by Mrs Zaykova. Look, colleagues, over all these 30 years the insurance system has been sacrificed to all reforms implemented or unrealized in Bulgaria. The insurance system has become a hostage to the reform of the sector of Security, of the reform of mining, mining, of the reform of agriculture. You know about the retirement age. Mr. Ganev, you know best 30 years ago or rather 2000, when this social security reform was set in Bulgaria, the new way of retirement, the new pension model, then the estimates, the parameters were completely different. Then it was about insurance contributions over 30%, now it's 19.4%. That is, in those years, the reduction in social security contributions has led to 16 billion fewer contributions to the social security system, because if there were those 16 billion, things would look completely different. However, in order to implement reforms in other sectoral policies, we have made the pension system suffer. Not just to suffer, but to suffer at the moment with financial problems, with financial difficulties. Therefore, when we talk about pension insurance, we must be very careful because social security in Bulgaria has always been linked in one way or another to all other sectoral policies.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u358	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u359	Madam President, honourable Members! Apparently, with the date scheduled for the next election, the election campaign is already in full swing. The BSP colleagues very much want the topic of social policy and social policy as a whole to be left, they very much want to monopolise it and only they to identify themselves in it. I would like to express the opinion of the Democratic Bulgaria. We have a social program and if you were so interested in how we will vote, you could see this in the program and in the requests we have given. From "Democratic Bulgaria" we have always argued that there is a need to recalculate pensions and that what colleagues from GERB have done for months to cheat pensioners using them with these 50 levs, and thus to violate any logic in the pension system, to destroy people's trust in the fact that really the amount of pension depends on who has paid what as insurance contributions, it is also not to be underestimated. But to lie that, at the moment, on the remaining few days of parliament, we can pass this law, is really bullying voters. If we've gone into campaign mode, let's keep it honest. In this regard, the speech of colleague Ganev was directed in this direction.. social policy should also be realistic, because it is in social policy that populism most often enters, colleagues from BSP and other groups. Since you, the three largest political parties, have not given this Parliament the opportunity to work longer and to adopt all these necessary measures, because none of the three parties wanted to propose a composition of a government and did not make a minimum effort... [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. A line from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva.]] You can speak after that, Mrs. Karayancheva. Since you yourself have decided that the life of this Parliament is so short, do not expect all reforms to be able to enter and we will reform the country in these few days. We will be happy to work in this direction in the next Parliament, and not only in the direction of recalculation of pensions, we have prepared proposals in the field of long-term care We have proposals for the third pillar of the pensions, proposals that enable people to invest and receive decent income. We have proposals for really large-scale reforms, but it takes time, and what you are doing right now is an election campaign. We will support this bill. I will at least support it with the clear awareness that it is populism and hypocrisy, because you yourself know that it cannot pass at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u360	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u361	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Bachkova, I liked the part about populism. Yeah, and that we're in an election campaign, and I think not only in this room, but outside this room, everyone knows we're already on this wave. However, what I cannot agree with is actually, I agree, you have established that there must be a government and that there is some responsibility to be taken over. It is therefore populist at the moment to do so, given that there is no government here to actually bear this expense and have this responsibility. However, one thing I do not agree with. You said the three big parties. I'm sorry, but we were the only party that gave structure and composition to the government. We have invited the only party with which we believe that we have, however, in recent years, shared very much some common values and invited you to a conversation, and you did not even come to these talks. So somehow, if you can adjust yourself in the back, apologize. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u362	Thank you. Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u363	Just for a little while. I would like to disagree with the fact that it is a populism under a bill that has been imported so many times in recent years. The other thing I would like to propose is that we end this debate because it is now extremely humiliating for everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u364	Thank you. Third line? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u365	Do you really think that the government you proposed seemed serious and seemed like a serious attempt to do something, colleagues? It's not like that. If there is someone who needs to apologize today, it is the chairman of the GERB party, who made your party toxic to any party that affords to work with it. [[Applause from DB]] This is the reason why we are not present and do not respond to your invitation to negotiate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u366	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u367	I'm doing a procedure to end the debate. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u368	Mrs. Peneva, that's why I went to the back because you don't have the right to do this procedure. We are currently at the first vote on a bill and the parliamentary groups still have time, which is not exhausted. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u369	Dear Bulgarian citizens, for us from BSP the biggest problem in Bulgaria is poverty and inequalities. Our main goal is to make policies to reduce poverty and inequality. Alas, after the crisis, they are not only increasing, but increasing. The official data of BNB and the National Statistical Institute show that even during the crisis every day in Bulgaria was born a new millionaire and half a million Bulgarians withdrew their savings from the banks up to 1000 leva. Here's the proof of increasing poverty and inequality. When you look reasonably and argue which people are most affected by this poverty and inequalities, it is seen that these are the elderly people - mostly pensioners and young families. That is why we are persistently, consistently, and now, after the crisis, even more arguably and irresistibly proposing a recalculation of pensions. Why isn't this populism and an election proposal? Because, fellow Members, this is the fifth time we've imported it. Every year from the previous parliament, when looking at a budget, we bring an alternative budget to the NSI and an alternative state budget, in which we have calculated and proposed a recalculation of pensions up to a penny. Ma doesn't have an election, but there are choices. It's not important to us. We have a priority for the poverty and misery of the elderly. Second argument: why is it not populism and not election? Because we're the only ones who've done it before. In 2008 pensions were revalued in the way we are proposing now, and it was still not in line with elections or not. Now the arguments of those in the Chamber that you say no. I'll politely define them as unserious, perhaps deserve a stronger definition. First argument we heard there were no opinions of the National Insurance Institute, the Trilateral Council and so on. Dear Bulgarian budgeters, on this proposal, which has been submitted five times, there are five times the opinions of all the responsible institutions to give their opinion, five times this discussion has been held here, both in the Tripartite Council and in the Budget Committee. If you were interested, you could read these opinions. So this argument we're putting aside. A second argument must be updated the budget. Of course, for the most simplely prepared financier, economist, lawyer, MP, it is clear that this cannot happen without an update of the budget. However, I am asking the same colleague Ganev, Chairman of the Budget Committee, why does the proposal for a decision of the National Assembly, with which to oblige Borisov to make an update of the budget, stand somewhere in your drawers and see no light day? Why do you need a new government, you see, which was not drawn up immediately and now to have an update of the budget. If this proposal of BSP was voted and addressed now, right here, it had to be Borisov and explain what an update of the budget is and how will the pensions pay? Who saved him from that? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] At least "Democratic Bulgaria" because it was not submitted by the President to the Commission, otherwise we would have seen who voted in the Chamber. I'm sorry, but I don't know how to define that anymore. A serious man, expert, budget manager, committee chairman, to say that he will vote a billion and 200 million leva just because he is afraid of beating his mother-in-law, shows the level of this parliament. [[Laughter]] And I'm putting that argument aside. Dear colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria," especially because you were the sharpest to our proposal, you attacked us with words of populism and election campaigning, only I want to remind you of the facts. When we submitted this same proposal years ago, you were part of Borisov's government and voted against it here in the Chamber. We are not doing it electionally now and you are saying: No, it is not working, we were doing it then and you, as part of the coalition with GERB, voted against. So be honest and honest with people when you make arguments about why you're against it. And now, of course, the most important question: where did you get the money? Because the argument is usually that there's no money for it. Money for everything is important, it is important which politician and which party sets its priorities. Here is our proposal for the origin of money for pensions, for example, the Silver Fund has 3 billion. 300 million, which is just for pensions. The fund was created by BSP targeted, in it to collect funds from concessions, from privatisations only for pensions and for nothing else. What does GERB do with the Silver Fund? He keeps it in reserve to record on paper that the reserve is high in value. We don't know if the money's there, we didn't get a very clear answer. We'll see when the real audit of this department begins. They keep it in the reserve to brag about financial stability and high value of the reserve, imagining that they thus demonstrate financial stability of the country, from which large investments will come. No, there's no investment coming. Why the 3 billion? 300 million isn't used for pensions?! Here's a source of funds for you. Second source of funds. I heard, I think again from "Democratic Bulgaria" - one of the colleagues to say, that is to say, to repeat our thesis that 10 billion people steal in Bulgaria every year. lv. from the government in the current government. That's what you said. Let's make these thefts stop, and here you are, not one billion for pensions, but three billion for pensions and money for a lot more. Is there, however, the will to do this to make an audit of the management of GERB, to stop these leaks and thefts and to go where necessary, with some care for the people, for the pensioners, for the young families and so on? And third option, let's separate from the NSI social payments as Mr. Ademov suggests. To be borne by the budget and to remain in the NSI only payments of labour pensions. There are reasonable decisions, it is important to have a reasonable will, because when you want to do something, you find a way when you don't want to, you find an excuse. We want a consistent, principled, stable and relentless pensioning, because the elderly people - mothers and fathers - can no longer live like this and you all know it. You can't do it with 300 leva. to meet basic needs of life! How's that gonna work? We'll figure it out. Here's an option. Let someone else sit down normally, rationally, and decide. No, you deny everything. It wasn't possible. There was no money. No, it's possible, and there's money! Dear colleagues, we are in the finals of this parliament. In one month's work, we have passed no law but the Election Code. In one month, not a single law in favor of the people in whose interest we swore on the first day here that we would work in the interests of the people. And in a month, nothing but the Election Code. What does it mean to watch your party, self-centered, personal interest? Let's adopt the Election Code and go to elections. And these people with 300 levs. Retirement? What about the young families who've been out of work since the crisis? What about businesses and small businesses that go bankrupt? They'll wait! So for a month, not a single law in the interests of the people. I appeal to you that today is the last day on which we can correct this and that this Parliament may be remembered, albeit as a very short-term Parliament, with a meaningful decision. There is time to accept both first and second readings as long as there is willpower. Ours is there.. The law is before you, we expect the vote. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For lines? Here you go, Mr. Ganev. For a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u371	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u372	Let's see if there's any lines and dots, and then you'll make the personal explanation. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ganev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u373	She's the mother-in-law, exactly. After all, the important things! Mrs. Ninova, but still a little sense of humor can one afford from this tribune?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u374	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u375	It can't be about pensions, okay. My personal explanation is this: it was not an argument, it was an attempt at a joke. Maybe not very successful, forgive me!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u376	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u377	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up! Goons out of the way!...will support this bill. This is one of the few remaining chances of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly acquitting its existence. It is a fact that of the numerous bills that have been submitted to Parliament and our parliamentary group, and of the BSP, which relate to solving the social problems of the Bulgarian citizens, nothing has reached the plenary. This is the first bill to enter the plenary and to be voted by the people's representation. Here I will not even pay attention to the fact that the pension recalculation bill on the basis of social security income 2018 has also been introduced by us from the "Train up"! Goons out! I will also not note that in principle the practice shows that when there are the same bills that treat the same matter, they should be considered together, because in this case it is more important that another step related to the reclaiming of the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners is taken. This is what matters, not who brought it, but who will now support it in plenary and give life to this bill. I will not repeat arguments that are absolutely fair and which have been heard in this Chamber that thanks to the last 11 years of GERB management Bulgaria continues to be the state with the poorest and most ill population, the most corrupt state, with the worst gap between the handful of rich and the millions living below the poverty threshold and working poor but mainly Bulgarian pensioners. One million and 100,000 Bulgarian pensioners live with pensions below BGN 369, below the poverty line. That's really embarrassing. Let's leave the elderly, our parents, to be miserable and to wonder what first to pay for the food, whether the electricity bills and the steam bills or the drugs. The question where did you get the money? Look, Borisov's decision to give the Bulgarian pensioners 50 leva. Until the date of election production cost the state treasury about 950 million. lv. The provision of 50 leva. Until the end of this year, which we from Stand up! We have proposed, as people have become accustomed to this allowance in times of crisis and for them it has already been acquired right, it will cost by the end of this year 740 million. lv. I do not believe that there will be a government, whether official or regular, which will deprive the elderly of this supplement of BGN 50. That'll cost the Treasury $740 million. lv.! Far from the fair solution is really the recalculation of pensions based on social security income 2018. This is what we have proposed and we will support the BSP's proposal because this is the fair solution. This is a solution that will affect in a positive sense, will reach and support 1 million 600 000 Bulgarian pensioners, who are already waiting for how many 13 years of pensioning. The latter was indeed in 2008 on the basis of insurance income 2007. Twice the insurance income and indeed the difference, scissors between the old pensions, which were received 13 years ago, and those that are now received in the same contribution to the insurance system, is drastic, which is not fair. So there are really few days left when we have to show that we have not forgotten why people sent us to the Forty-Fiveth Parliament. This is the Law for recalculating pensions, which must be supported. This is the Personal Aid Act which entered into the Programme of this National Assembly. This is the support of 50 leva. for pensioners by the end of this year, depending on the date on which the recalculation of pensions is adopted. This is our offer to receive 120 leva. food vouchers and pensioners who have pensions below BGN 300,001 These are the social bills that people expect. I hope that today the Budget Committee will finally take over the bill to support business, self-insuring individuals, small companies. You understand that Bulgaria is the only country that has left its citizens in a pandemic to be in distress, to be miserable. Self-insuring persons do not have a penny of support from the Bulgarian state. It's the same with small businesses. But the most poor and the most hurt are the Bulgarian pensioners. So I remain on the conscience of every MP, no matter where the proposal comes from, to support this bill. Because it will be an important step indeed, which can make this Parliament a step to be fixed by both the next and the next. A worthy life for the elderly of Bulgaria...................................................................................................... Vote on your conscience. Indeed, this vote will depend on who remembers the promises he made to his constituents and who has truly forgotten himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u378	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. For a line, Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u379	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Mrs. Manolova, I sincerely regret that we will not be able to vote on this project at second reading. I'd vote it first, of course. But you just remembered these are the most important bills? Why didn't we actually deal with this bill from the first day and with the other similar ones, and we started with the Election Code, we started with an investigation commission that wouldn't lead to any result, and we started at all by scratching, smashing, and with an attempt at revolution that would end with a fiasco? And I came to this Parliament with the idea that we would do good things and, again, I say, I would love to vote on this project, I would participate in its discussion, of course, because it is neither simple nor easy. But unfortunately, we won't be able to produce a good result. We're stuck with an election code that's been adopted overnight and we're stuck with a committee that's not gonna do anything. I'm sorry, I'm telling you, I'm really sorry, but it's not our fault. It is not GERB in this Parliament guilty of what happened. Guilty are those who had the chance to make reforms and squander it completely recklessly, led by revenge and malice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u380	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. For a second line? I won't. Mrs. Manolova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u381	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Cholakov, let's look at the facts. My question to the GERB parliamentary group is how many bills have you submitted to this Parliament? In addition to the Election Code, which has tabled your parliamentary group, and the Commission for the Rosenets (Rosenets) what else have you imported? Were you among those who opposed each time the Parliamentary Group stood up! Gourmets out! suspenses the weekly program to include some of the bills that support Bulgarian citizens, I repeat, support for micro enterprises and small companies. Not only for those who are imprisoned during a pandemic, but also those who have reduced turnover, support for self-insuring individuals, support for start-ups, support for households where their members are unemployed because of the pandemic and are not otherwise supported. Well, today, with your votes, our bill to secure 50 leva didn't come in. old people's by the end of this year. With your votes, of course, from other parliamentary groups, but mainly with the votes against GERB. You don't want the people to be calm? You want the father Borisov to throw them 50 leva, which is to be done in any way, but not by the Bulgarian Constitution with a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament. That's 105 million. lv. per month, which should be discussed by the people's representation. And as far as the Revision Committee is concerned, there are two other meetings that I assure you will be extremely interesting and everything that is collected in it will go to the relevant competent authorities. I know it's GERB's great fear. I know the fairs that are produced there are out of fear. I know that the organized propaganda groups that are raging against the representatives of the parties in the protest really show the panic attacks in which you and your leader are both present. So the Committee on Revision will continue its work, I hope from the caretaker government, and facts about GERB's outrage and abuses at all levels in the administration will become a fact and will receive a fair punishment from the Bulgarian justice system. Now what you can do is just vote for this bill. Let's start somewhere, let the pensioners and their pensions be the first positive thing we've done in terms of consensus now here by pressing a vote for.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u382	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u383	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The recalculation, the update of pensions on our proposal is an increase in pensions, but not only by 50 BGN. a one-time, pre-election, and in general. Our proposal means stability and predictability, with the possibility of forecasting and planning both the state budget and the family budget of every worthy Bulgarian pensioner who has dedicated his life to Bulgaria, and now has quite natural and fair expectations to live his old age. This is our consistent policy and no one has the right to accuse us of any populism, because we have insisted and tabled this bill repeatedly, I said here from this tribune, five times in the past National Assembly. Unfortunately, he did not find support in the previous legislation, but I hope he will now receive this support because he requires it, first, justice and, second, the dignity of the Bulgarian pensioner. It is unacceptable for over 60%, over 1 million and 300,000 pensioners to survive below the poverty line, taking pensions under BGN 360, wondering whether to buy bread or pay their medicines, or to help their unemployed children again for bread and medicines. Dear MPs, a people who do not respect and neglect their elderly people, neglecting the wisdom of the nation, neglecting their elders, practically does not have a good future ahead of them. Don't convince us how it can't happen. There were many arguments here about how it could happen and how it happened back in time. And don't look under the ox. This story we from BSP have heard for years and Bulgarian pensioners too. However, it is also listened to by the young people of Bulgaria, who are disincentived in practice to pay their pension insurance because they see no point in tormenting and squandering like their parents. By supporting this bill, you do not only support the pensioners of Bulgaria, you also support the young people who crave, who want one day to be able to rely on the state, so that they can take care of them, but not as they care about their parents. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u384	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u385	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! That BSP is consistent in caring for the elderly people of Bulgaria is clear and has been mentioned by the stands, for the years in which we have introduced this proposal in the 44th Parliament. The fact that we are consistent is also clear from the fact that we have four times introduced the Old People's Law, which he undoubtedly needs, but he has not seen the light of day either. Of course, what Mrs Zaykova said is also important here. The lightmotiv of every member of the National Assembly when entering the Bulgarian National Assembly, whatever it is, must be three things: a recalculation of pensions, which is the most legal thing for increasing pensions and, of course, for a decent life of Bulgarian pensioners; the second thing is that we must be guided by the idea of access to health, health care; and the third is the Bulgarian youth. These are inalienable things, and we are working in this direction. Otherwise, what concern for the elderly we have so far had as a fact is the proof that until recently the ruling party and its crutches did so that they waited only for elections to give old people packages of food, which is an infinite humiliation. If the elderly were well with GERB, because they are not and are not, GERB would not give them packages of food. And let it be known! The missionaries know that, and let everyone else know that. That's what my colleague Popov neglected to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Second line? I won't. Mr. Popov's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u387	You are right, Mr. Chenchev, that we have always been consistent in this policy and you have heard it here from the many speeches. But there were other speeches here from this tribune. One of Mr. Ganev's, who said here, and it was not quite a joke, as he tried to make it out that Bulgarian pensioners could not live well at the end of the quote. Here from this high tribune, if this had happened in a country that protects the elderly, in a country that is democratic, the rule of law, which Bulgaria claims to be, excuse me, from this tribune the MP to state so strongly that a large part of the Bulgarian people cannot live well is at least unacceptable and would mean the political end of the speaker. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u388	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u389	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! From the looks of it, there's a senseless socialist work going on with wonders of work heroism. [[Laughter and applause from GERB-SDS]] And labor heroism, I see, is boiling on all sides. I am surprised on the right hand side that they extended working hours and offered to examine this bill, and even more on the left hand side, which already for the fifth time offer this bill and the fifth time is not accepted, and from 85 MPs have come to 43th because they are always offering it. [[Laughter]] Colleagues, we are talking about recalculating pensions when before, I think that two parliaments here were present Mrs. Maya Manolova, was not yet Naydenova, when we from DPS, I personally offered 600 leva. A minimum pension and you didn't accept. And I'm asking myself what's changed since then, and the opening is: you've crossed the line of populism, overreacting. What you're doing right now from this tribune is not even an election campaign. What's happening here right now is wild populism. Mr. Ademov, I welcome you that 15 minutes, after all, you have explained to your colleagues here, both the new and the others, the recalculation of pensions. There was this expression, a fellow student of ours used to say, "Well, this book, when I read it, it's like I wrote it. By closing it, it's like someone else has read it. [[Laughter]] And you still keep coming out here and confirming that you haven't figured out what this is about. I don't know who to turn to anymore because no one's listening. Everyone is looking at how and how to send messages to the voter, especially to the pensioners. Here is the time and place to tell you: we will support this bill, not that we will not support it, but we will support it, following all the rules, with the idea that the next parliament after New Year, when the budget is adopted, should be the date to enter for the recalculation, as is by law. That was the next problem. I can think of another professor of mathematics, integral arithmetic. He turns to us and says: "Company students, do you understand the task?" "We, worried like you, we all shout: "Yes, we understand it." "He says: "I 17 years I teach." I didn't understand how you understood it so quickly and I don't know!?? [[Laughter]] Therefore, colleagues, the proposals for these 50 levs, which went before the handout by the Prime Minister, could pass as recalculations. Where were we then? I'm asking both the left side and the DPS? He didn't have a hearing back then. And now I see Mrs. Manolova jumping here: I will continue to give those 50 levs, which are within 700 million to the end. Why, Mrs. Manolova, 50 leva.? We from the DPS propose to be 150. Why? You claim that the Prime Minister 50 leva. He was handing them out like that. Why are you limiting the pensioners to 50 leva?? Shall I continue? Colleagues, my request is, first of all, to talk about pensions, each of us will come a day when we will take them, but as people who have sent us here, whether we are beautiful, smart or curved, to think first about the revenue, investment, jobs in this country, so that from there in some way by raising the ceiling of the pension, to authorise and allow the revenues that come to the NSI and not through subsidies of 900 million. lv. from the state budget, to be able to provide the Bulgarian population with pensions and peaceful life, to be able to live. Which one of us doesn't want the pensioners to live well? Just the left side or just the right side? Does only Mr. Ganev want our pensioners to live well? Do you only want BSPs to live well? Colleagues, let's cut the populism. We have gone too far that we have not been able to form a government on the basis of which to govern the state and think about the serious things in this country. We're still on the show! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u390	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u391	Thank you, Madam President. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "No time!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u392	Yeah, you don't have time. Your time is up. Unfortunately, and prolonged. Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u393	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atalay, and I believe that jokes and humor regarding the pensions of the poorest people in Bulgaria are more than inappropriate here than this tribune. When, what, why it was in time, it's what's happening today and now. Today and now the Bulgarian pensioners in the conditions of a type of crisis are the most victims. People really expect support, expect a sign of solidarity from the Bulgarian Parliament. Here and now, with one push of the button, everyone decides whether it is fair to have living people in Bulgaria to live with 300 BGN. per month under the conditions of a pandemic. In my opinion, this is indeed an intolerable situation. This is a situation for which there can no longer be any excuse. In addition, the tribune gave different options on how and how to provide this money. I don't think it's normal for the next social minister and the next prime minister, whether it's official or regular, to solve the problem with BGN 50 single. But anyway, that money that would be paid by the end of this year is the same money if today here and now we start recalculating pensions. This money will be given to the Bulgarian pensioners fairly, but they expect the first big step. So who, when, what has suggested, who, when, what has voted, yes, this is important, but more important is what we will do today and now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u394	Thank you. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u395	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I definitely want to express my disagreement with the pre-negotiation that this is populism. And since Mr. Atalay mentioned a book about who read it and what he understood, I will also mention a book in which we swore, it is called the Bulgarian Constitution. I say most responsible that in this debate it is not about what is possible and different budgetary parameters, which should be a consequence, not a reason for an action. I say most responsiblely that the National Assembly is obliged to proceed with the recalculation of pensions, which has not been done for more than 11 years. The following texts are given to me for reasons. In accordance with art. 51 of the Bulgarian Constitution citizens have the right to social security and this must be read in the light of art. 6, para. 2, according to which all citizens are equal before the law. Well, Mr. Atalay, if your mathematics teacher, which you kindly quoted, taught 35 years of one class, would take a much smaller pension from another mathematics teacher who taught in the same class as the same subject but retired a few years later. Where's the equality before the law? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have indeed proposed this bill many times and every time we do the calculations. The longer it is postponed, the more expensive it will become, the more arguments you will have to say that it is impossible, because the idea of pension insurance is to be systematic and to act according to system and rules. The replacement of this system with Easter supplements, Christmas awards, various types of handouts is humiliating to the people who do not need handouts, as they have acquired rights, respecting the laws of this country. This policy is humiliating to them. It is ineffective and it destroys the most important thing about our sense of community, of intergenerational solidarity, of a system in which a person works to help those who worked before him. And so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the failure to accept this law will also violate another constitutional provision. 29: No one can be subjected to torture, cruel, inhumane or humiliating treatment. "The non-calculation of pensions over 11 years has subjected more than 1 million and 200,000 people to such humiliating and inhumane treatment. And if this parliament makes any sense, it's this law. It may have been only a month, but let this be better, for it reminds us of our oath: I will abide by the Constitution and the laws of the country.............................. by supporting the Law! If you don't comply with them, you will suffer the consequences! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u396	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. For a line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u397	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Zarkov! There is no need to convince ourselves in this House that pensioners should take more money, perhaps the recalculation is also fair. However, before we have this conversation, we must have each other, and we have never had it. And it's about an increase in insurance. Because you say: 11 years you haven't recalculated the pensions, but I don't remember for the last 11 years anyone from your party has declared themselves firmly to increase the insurance. Because that's where some of the money will be collected. And that is why I ask you very specifically: are you for an increase in insurance and in what size should it be? From the next government, apparently. We're having this debate anyway, so let's at least get some things straight. It is obvious that this law does not have time to look at, but if you take such a position and take it very clearly, then you will have reason to want and increase, and recalculate pensions. Thank you. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u398	Thank you. Second line? I won't. Mr. Zarkov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u399	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov, thank you for the line. I'm afraid you haven't understood exactly what recalculation of pensions means, which has nothing to do with the increase in current social security income, but with the regular recalculation of social security income at a certain point in time as it is. The problem, dear Mr. Bikov, as most people understood, as Dr. Ademov explained, and Georgi Gokov, is that since 2008 this recalculation has not happened to the insurance income as it is in the coming moments. We are not talking here about what the National Assembly thinks the insurance income should be further. I'm going back to the point. You replace a state system that, in order to be sustainable, must act under conditions of predictability and regularity. You're replacing it by self-defense. You're replacing it with charity. And this is disastrous both for the system itself, so for those who use it, and ultimately for the whole idea of statehood as a whole. Our proposal is calculated to be realistic. It is calculated to the current parameters so as to be realistic. And this is our top priority in this Parliament, stated by our chairman on the first day. Everyone had a right to have their priorities. That's ours. And if there is an elementary sense of responsibility in this room, you will find that it is yours, or at least your constituents.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u400	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Social Security Code, No 154-01-4, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 15 April 2021. Vote 128 MPs: for 127, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Procedure, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u401	Dear Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads as follows: The National Assembly may decide, exceptionally, that the two votes be held in one sitting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This provision applies only if no proposals for amendments or additions to the bill have been made during a discussion. "No one in the Chamber has stated that he will make proposals between first and second readings despite the arguments he has argued against. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That is why I am making a procedural proposal that the bill be voted on now at second reading. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u402	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u403	Madam President, honourable Members, I am making a reverse proposal because we do not even have a Social Committee formed in this Parliament. I'm not talking about a government at all, that we don't have, that there isn't a social minister, that there isn't a finance minister, that you don't even have a president of the Central Election Commission. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's at least not accept this law for three minutes, because it's extremely serious and it's gonna be a real joke to do this thing in that kind of way. We would suggest between first and second reading different things. The point is, we don't know where to offer them because there's no Social Committee. Why haven't we set up a Social Committee for a month when you're so concerned about social reform? I'm asking you to stop acting like this. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u404	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u405	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I only appeal to one thing, and this is to respect the Rules of Procedure. Article 80, para. 2, which clearly orders in a situation where we are in a situation without a Social Committee, but with the will of the MPs, with care for the Bulgarian pensioners, without any proposal for a vote between first and second reading, I suggest that you put it to the vote. And, colleagues, more importantly...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u406	We have suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u407	Nobody said anything, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u408	Where do we put it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u409	You have time to speak, and you should have said as in this Rules, which you have not followed for four years. My appeal is to all MPs to complete the good work to the end for the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u410	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u411	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when there is such a procedure proposed by Mrs Cornelia Nino, it is only permissible when no proposals have been made. We want to make proposals between first and second readings. How do we do that? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We'd like to make some suggestions. How is that not true? You know damn well it's true. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here, I declare that we will make an offer. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u412	Mr. Ademov, they were not requested during the discussion itself. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to allow a second vote on...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u413	You can't! We have suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u414	When did you say that, Mrs. Karayancheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u415	You can't put him to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u416	Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u417	Colleagues, a little more calm and keep at the level of the National Assembly. I don't know how you've been listening and what you've been listening to, but we said that the DPS will support, but if the recalculation period changes. And I think I made it clear. So we don't have to go back into a trance. Thank you. [[Radio and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u418	Thank you. What procedure, Mr. Zafirov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u419	Madam President, I ask you to put our proposal to the vote because all the additions have been made following the motion for a vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] In the debate itself there were no such proposals made and please follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u420	Mr. Zafirov, if I must be precise and precise, in the debate and Mr. Ademov, I think Mr. Ganev also said that there are inaccuracies in the Law. The fact that the Law says that no proposals are made is not to be precise, should not be proposals and should not be written, and should not be formulated as proposals, it is simply the MPs who state that they want to make any proposals and that there is impracticality in the texts. This was clearly stated in the entire debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u421	But there was no expressed volition to make such changes. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u422	Mr. Tsonev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u423	My procedure is in the manner of conduct, Madam President. I'm asking you to step into your character. Mrs. Nino read the point and it clearly states "if there are no requests for proposals."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u424	There wasn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u425	During the discussion Mr. Atalay and Mr. Ademov made such proposals, they said there would be. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This one, first. And second, which is more important than the first, let's now for noble purposes not to do something we've never done! On two readings of ratifications, yes. On two reading laws with one text that is harmonious or some exception! In two readings in the Hall the Code of Social Security is not necessary to go there! Because until yesterday we spit GERB that they broke the rules and so on, and they did everything through the head of parliament! Absolutely, Madam President, you have no right to vote on this proposal. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u426	Mr. Tsonev, I won't put him to the vote. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] because such requests were indeed made in the debate. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u427	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u428	Mr. Svilensky in the manner of conduct? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u429	Madam President, this is exactly the hypocrisy everyone was talking about during the debate. So we were all very concerned with the clear mind now that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow is the last day of work. Clearly, when Cornelia Nino made the proposal, there was no request. Yeah, someone said there were inaccuracies in term, but didn't say, "We'll make an offer." [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] It's accepted by 127 votes for and without any objection. It's clearly written in the Rules. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "There was one. "]] Okay, no abstentions, one against. It is clearly stated in the Rules when it is subjected to... Let the National Assembly decide. That's why we're the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u430	Well, I won't! I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u431	Put it to the vote if they don't want the MPs, we won't be watching it. [[Relations of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] But if they want to watch it, they'll watch it. What's the problem? That's why we've been chosen here by the people who gave us these consoles and these cards to vote with, and whatever the majority decides. This is democracy without violation of the rules of procedure. 80, para. 2. In what language should this thing be explained that we are not breaking the Rules?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u432	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u433	And we urge you to follow the Rules in the name of the Bulgarian citizens, not us. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u434	That's why there's a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u435	Our things were solved last month by adopting the Rules and the Election Code. Let's work for the Bulgarian citizens for an hour and a half. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u436	Why didn't you work last week?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u437	Mr. Svilensky, thank you. [[Heckling]] I will not put it to the vote because you are well aware of the practice of the previous Parliament and of all the parliaments that they are subject to one vote in plenary these bills on which there is full consensus.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u438	There's a consensus!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u439	There is no such consensus in this case. There are objections from several parliamentary groups. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "There is no such thing in the Rules of Procedure. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u440	Where does it say that in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u441	There are requests made during the discussion...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u442	There's no request.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u443	...that the text is not precise and that it has to be refined, there are no opinions received, it is seen without a report of the committee responsible, it is seen without the deadlines. I think his very inclusion by para. 8, we said that we adopted it at a consensus of the Presidential Council, but only until the first vote. Today was the debate, you know, serious is the Conference of Presidents, no one at the Conference of Presidents united around the opinion to move on to a second vote. So there is no way I can put you to the vote on this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u444	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u445	On the other hand, on 1 May, we changed the Rules and agreed that we would no longer have a period of even three days between the first and second votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u446	It's under the new rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u447	It's in effect, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u448	Did you propose this under the new Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u449	That is to say, we, on the one hand, are asking for time to look carefully at the laws and to discuss them, at the same time, such a law as CSR would like to adopt it in opposition to the plenary and in the absence of absolute consensus. So I'm not gonna put...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u450	Under the new rules, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u451	Mr. Svilensky, there are no new and old rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u452	The one that gets accepted...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u453	The rules have been in force since May 1st, so there is no new rules and there is no old rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u454	Yes, under these Rules you can see art. 80, para. 2. Look what it says!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u455	Art. 80, para. 2 is an active text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u456	Yeah, what does it say?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u457	This text has been repeatedly proposed, but has always been applied when there is absolute consensus and unanimity.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u458	It doesn't say that there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u459	That means when no proposals have been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u460	But they weren't made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u461	Mr. Svilensky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u462	Now they can make all the suggestions they want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u463	How could they not be? Let's see the shorthands!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u464	I won't! What are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u465	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u466	There was! There was also a Democratic Bulgaria, and there was a DPS from the Democratic Bulgaria. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I disagree, I will not allow this procedure. Tell me, Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u467	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u468	Yes, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u469	Thank you. Dear Madam President, I first wonder from the "There is such a people" in your position or are they not? Because they voted one out in this House and did not make any proposals in plenary on this bill. Secondly, please show me in the Rules of Procedure the provision on which you have so far spoken that there must be consensus in order to be able to proceed... Where does the Rules say there should be consensus? The Rules say that if no requests and proposals were received during the debates, that proposals would be made between first and second readings and none had been received. There have been only expressed opinions since when should eventually come into force and so on, but no one has made a request that they will make a proposal between first and second readings. And that's clearly written in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u470	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u471	Put it to the vote and vote as you see fit. Why won't you let him vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u472	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u473	Show me on what basis of the Rules of Procedure you do not allow our proposal to vote. This is a harsh violation of the Rules, which has the power of law. You're a lawyer, and you know it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u474	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u475	Mr. Popov, I would like to point out to you again that nowhere in art. 80, para. 2 does not say that the proposals should be written. There were definite requests.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u476	There were no requests for proposals, there was an opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u477	Mr. Popov, you're abusing it! You abuse including the decision of the Conference of Presidents. Your own point was included in violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[(Loud noise, applause and cheering: Aaaa, bravo, bravo!]] Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u478	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. With the idea of calming the situation a little, please explain to Mr. Popov that proposals are not made during the debates. Proposals are made eventually if the law is passed at first reading, there is a procedure for proposals between first and second readings. During the debates, only requests can be made, not proposals formed. Please explain this to Mr. Popov. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u479	There was a request for something else, man!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u480	I think I explained it to him, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u481	There was a request for the deadline. [[Rights of the aisle, MPs from all parliamentary groups want the floor. MPs from the parliamentary groups are gradually flocking around the table below the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u482	Mr. Bojankov, I didn't give you the floor. There's another procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u483	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I urge you to put to the vote here arguments have been given, including by quoting the Constitution, I will also recall: Bulgaria is democratic, the rule of law, the social state. Let us give the House a chance, not the Presidency, to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u484	But it has rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u485	It's by the book. There is a proposal under the Rules, and I ask you to put it to the vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u486	There is no proposal under the Rules of Procedure, it is a procedure and it is a question of proposals made in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u487	Madam President, as per paragraph 1. 1 On behalf of our parliamentary group, I said, we will make proposals between first and second readings. Such an application has not been made. The truth is that here, if anyone has arguments and does not want to go to one reading in the Chamber, let them vote against the will of the majority will solve this case. But the truth here is that everyone voted for, but with the clear awareness that this bill would not see the light of day, and they just wanted to lie to the Bulgarian pensioners that they cared about them. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And when you saw the potential to finally have justice for the elderly in Bulgaria, you are trying to cripple this proposal and not see the light of day. And that is clearly to be said in this room. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and shouting: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u488	Mr. Bojankov, let us be serious about the legislative activity of the National Assembly. The last, I told you, the practice of Parliament and the Rules is not to allow such procedural proposals when the debate shows that there is no unanimity on the matter. [[People from GERB-SDS and DPS want a procedure.]] Mr. Tsonev. [[National Representative Dimitar Glauchev wants a procedure.]] This way of keeping can be endless. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Glauchev. Members of the National Assembly from the BSP for Bulgaria and ask for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u489	Madam President, if you had held the Rules of Procedure, you would not have allowed this procedural debate. There was a proposal for a second reading vote on a bill, there was a reverse proposal from Toma Bikov and we are going on....................we are voting on whether to be admitted to a second reading or not. [[Shouts from GERB-SDS.]] From now on, you have admitted a procedural debate, which makes it clear that now someone wants to make moves here and not accept a proposal that will be good for the Bulgarian pensioners, because this Parliament for this short life accepted nothing but what would be the only thing that would be acceptable to people, and you are stopping it now. Do not allow this procedural debate anymore, put it to the vote and see who is what and what this Parliament is working for.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u490	Mr. Gokov, I will not allow it to be voted on, as I think I should not allow it to be voted on. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Glauchev last, and we're done. Members of the National Assembly from BSP for Bulgaria and under the stands want the floor. Loud noise and lines.) I thought you said the way you were supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u491	Madam President, honourable Members! [[Relations of the Members of the National Assembly under the stands. National Representative Rumen Gechev at the Presidency, details with the President.]] You have no right, you have no right! Madam President, honourable Members! Do you see how far it goes when the provisions of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly have not been complied with since this morning? [[Loud noise and lines.]] And you know it very well and you said it. Your current decision is absolutely sustained by the Rules of Procedure. If someone tries to disprove you, 100% will not stand a chance. Because, indeed, fellow Members, they may not have been in the Chamber, but colleagues have stated their intention to make amendments to the Bill. And Mr. Atalay said. [[Replications from the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u492	Are you currently in procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u493	And what they're doing right now is super insolence.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u494	Are you in procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u495	At the moment, four hours after they refused a government mandate, they want something voted in violation of the rules. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Why didn't you make a government and vote on these things?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u496	Are you doing a procedure right now? What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u497	Why? Why? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u498	What procedure are you doing right now? I suggest you suspend the sitting to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u499	What do you suggest it's like?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u500	I propose that the sitting be suspended for a vote! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u501	I shall put to the vote the procedure for termination of the sitting. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) No, no, no, no, no! There is no such thing!]] There is, Mr. Glauchev made it. [[(Replication by the National Representative Andrey Valchev, under the stands:]] You've done too much! [[Heckling]] I'm not going to put them on the stand because they're not going to vote. It says in the Rules of [[(Replies from BSP for Bulgaria]] There's no such procedure! [[Replyes: "There are two procedures. "]] I cannot put it to the table because it says: The National Assembly can decide, exceptionally, the two votes. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: Here is the exception! There's the exception! Put it to the vote.]] It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u502	Honourable Members, I am making a reverse proposal, which is by procedure under the Rules of Procedure, which I hope we will all respect. The opposite of what Mr. Glauchev has done is to continue the meeting as we have decided with the following. 3...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u503	Before that, there was another procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u504	... as it became clear, present in the transcription relating to the establishment of a Temporary Commission in relation to. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria "There is another voting procedure"]] I don't know how many times...... we have to hear the same procedure? [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria.]] Maybe if you all line up, we'll hear the same thing again! Colleagues, please, let's get to the point. 3, which is on the agenda. Thank you. [[Reply from the BSP for Bulgaria: "Previously there is another procedure for voting. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u505	I won't put her to the vote, Mr. Svilensky. You're trespassing! Because you've been in violation from the beginning, I told you, of the Rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u506	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u507	Don't listen to them! Follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u508	Follow the rules! [[Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm putting the motion to the vote... [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" In the way of driving! "]] I put to the vote Mr. Glauchev's proposal under article. 55, para. 2, p. 1... [[(Loud noise and lines. Replies from the National Representative Andrey Valchev:]] ...to adjourn the meeting. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS, long screams from BSP to Bulgaria]] I can't vote because I can't vote by the rules! [[(Shouting, noise and lines. Replies of the National Representative Ivan Chenchev: Do you realize what decision you are making now?]] Yes, I do! I'm following the rules. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Why don't you follow it?"]] Mr. Svilensky, this proposal is only put to the vote when there is no obstruction in plenary. [[Replys from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski: "Ama has no proposal. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u509	There's no such rule!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u510	You see what's going on in this room! [[(Noise and lines. People's representative Georgi Svilenski's reply:....................................................................................... 2. "Replication of the People's Representative Yordan Tsonev: "Alinea 2" is not filled with content.]] Here you go, Mr. Valchev. [[(Noise and lines. Replies from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u511	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u512	On behalf of the parliamentary group there is such a people and we want 15 minutes of rest. [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u513	Take 15 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u514	We're continuing the hearing. With regard to the procedural proposal to move to the second vote of the Law on Supplement to the Social Security Code, I will reiterate that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure are explicit, they are talking about moving to the second vote of an exception bill when there is no obstruction in the Chamber. [[The Bulgarian People's Representatives of BSP are around the stands........................................]] In plenary Mr. Georgi Ganev explicitly spoke about proposals between first and second readings even for a period of three days. The same proposal is made by Mr. Ademov for at least 1 January next year. I've got the Stenograms. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, please! On the other hand, Mr. Svilensky, I'd like to remind you... [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky, I'll give you the transcript to read. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the other hand, I would like to remind you that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, attacked by BSP against GERB 2010, in which are exactly the same arguments that I am telling you right now, Mr. Svilenski. [[Applause from IHN]] [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's in the National Archive Fund Amendment Act. I'll even read it to you. Then there's a first vote report. We don't have a first vote report right now. [[(Reply from National Representative Georgi Svilenski:]] That's not true. Please! [[(Reply from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev:]] See what the Constitutional Court writes, including Mrs. Manolova there, has made an obstruction and has indicated that it is not possible in a procedure to discuss a bill at first reading to come up with specific proposals to refer to the procedure at second reading. And what does the Constitutional Court say? In the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the National Archive Fund, the MPs were deprived of the opportunity to make proposals for amendments to the Law, voted at first reading, which is in violation of the rule of law and the principle of political pluralism. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is unacceptable in cases where, when discussing the draft laws at first reading in the Standing Committees and in plenary, the Members of the National Assembly state unambiguously that they intend to exercise their right to submit proposals on separate texts for second reading, to proceed to a second vote on the Draft. [[(Scanded &amp; lines from BSP for Bulgaria (Scanded &amp; lines from BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded &amp; lines from BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded &amp; lines from BSP for Bulgaria) (Omission!) ……]] Mr. Ademov says he may suggest this happen from January 1st next year. [[Noise and lines from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Philip Popov, Ivan Chenchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yavor Bojankov.]] There he is... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not only that he might suggest this happen from January 1st next year. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But look, the MPs have no obligation to make proposals here in plenary in the first vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They said it, I think that unambiguously from both the Democratic Bulgaria and the DPS... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] How could it not be true, please? [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u515	I want procedure! Yavor Bozhankov [[BSP for Bulgaria, away from microphones]] I want procedure! GEORGI LEARNING [[BSP for Bulgaria, away from microphones]] This is what you do on the back of the Bulgarian pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u516	I do not do it on the back of the Bulgarian pensioners. Mr. Svilensky, you know how bills are adopted in the National Assembly. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This procedure... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Svilensky, this procedure is proposed and applied whenever there is no obstruction in the room. Look at what's going on in the gym. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this House, it is not an environment to move to a second vote on a bill. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I won't put it to the vote! [[(Tromping on banks and shouting from BSP for Bulgaria Resign! Resign! What are you afraid of?]] Because the MPs say they don't want to move on to such a... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How could he not? How could he not? [[Reply by National Representative Philip Popov: "Put it to the vote! "]] That's whenever the situation is calm, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u517	She's not calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u518	Well, she's not calm because the MPs don't want to move on to this stage of the vote. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How come when Mr. Ganev talked about seven days of offers and three days?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria "There is no such thing"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u519	* In the manner of conduct * * In the manner of conduct * * In the
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u520	I won't give you your word, Mr. Bojankov! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And what will you read from the Constitution? Okay, read it. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u521	Madam President, because my procedure is directed at you, as you have referred to the Constitution, I would like to read the particular constitutional text in this House, because the Constitution sounds too general. Dear Madam Chairman, art. 88 reads: The applications shall be discussed and accepted with two votes held in separate meetings. By way of exception, the National Assembly may decide that the two votes should take place in one sitting. There's no requirement who said what at what point. The constitution is very clear. You just said, "The Constitution." [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the text of the Constitution. There is absolutely no need for you to argue from a place to respond to other people from a place of who's meant to say what. The normal procedure in the parliamentary republic in this House is a vote. We're sitting down. We're voting. If the majority does not want the decision, we continue to work. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u522	The majority, Mr. Bojankov, wants the Rules to be applied precisely and therefore does not want this procedure to be put to the vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Tsonev, last time we went through... [[Reply from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev: "How did you know which majority does not want a vote? "]] I see the noise in the room and I see that there is no consensus on this. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're entitled to a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u523	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing the following procedure: to exercise your powers under the Rules of Procedure. In the event that the order in the Chamber does not allow a normal meeting to be held, the sitting shall be suspended. [[(Strong noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u524	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u525	Use the powers given to you by the Rules of Procedure as there is no order in this House. They used to build up here like they were gonna hand out patties, didn't they? [[Laughter]] They don't stay in their seats and the meeting can't be held. You have the right to terminate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-05.u526	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. That's what I was going to do. [[(Strong noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]] On the grounds... [[Strong noise and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I won't give you the floor! [[Loud noise, lines and applause.]] I won't give it to you! [[(Strong noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria ……]] I won't! [[PHONE RINGING]]
