ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, I will present to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for March 4, 2021: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law on the provision of digital content and digital services and the sale of goods. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 30 December 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 27 January 2021. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. Importers supplied by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, 14 January 2021. Adopted by first vote on 11 February 2021. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 18 February 2021. Adopted in first vote on 26 February 2021. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 19 February 2021 5. Draft decision to award the Council of Ministers providing access to the Russian vaccine against Kovid-19 Sputnik V Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, 26 February 2021 Point 1 for Friday 5 March 2021 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 8 February 2021. Adopted in first vote on 19 February 2021. Point 2 for Friday 5 March 2021 7. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 25 February 2021 Point 3 for Friday 5 March 2021 8. Parliamentary control after the legislative part of the meeting on Friday 5 March 2021 Please, voting mode. Vote 139 MPs: 132 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 24 February to 2 March 2021: Bill amending and supplementing the Medical Devices Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Report on the activities of the Fiscal Council of Bulgaria for 2020. Importer. The Chairman of the Fiscal Council. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Bill for the annulment of the Social Services Act. Importers "Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. A bill ratifying the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, signed on 30 June 2019 in Hanoi. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention adopted by the Council in accordance with art. 34 of the Treaty on European Union, on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union and the Protocol drawn up by the Council in accordance with art. 34 of the Treaty on European Union to the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill ratifying the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, signed on 19 October 2018 in Brussels. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Draft decision to award the Council of Ministers providing access to the Russian vaccine against Kovid-19 Sputnik V Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It's been assigned to the Health Committee. Annual Report on the activities of the Office of Military Intelligence (MI) in 2020 and draft decision. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Annual Report of the State Commission on Security of Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has authorised by its own orders: 1. passing through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria with a non-military nature of aircraft with its crew of the Air Force of Ukraine. The permit is valid for passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Algerian route Ukraine, without landing on the Bulgarian territory, between 26 February and 2 March 2021, including for the purpose of returning the aircraft from the Algerian People's Democratic Republic to Ukraine, without cargo on board. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the transition with a view to the defence of the country on export control issues and in accordance with international sanctions regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria. The permit to fly through the country's airspace should be granted to interested parties after a positive opinion from the competent public authorities in these areas................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of servicemen from the Czech Republic with state weapons, combat supplies, equipment and equipment, and servicemen from the Center for Research, Building and Improvement of NATO's abilities to conduct the Mountain War in the town of Polche, Slovenia. During the period from 15 to 25 March 2021, including in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria a joint training will be held in the area of the town of Smolyan. In the joint training, the training will be attended by soldiers, equipment and equipment from the Bulgarian side. The exercise is under the European initiative to unite and share in the field of military training and is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carry out activities to prevent military action conducted by other (other country or organisation) military forces. The notifications were received on 25 February and 1 March 2021 with input Nos 103-09-9 and 103-09-10 and submitted to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act have received summaries of reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets of the State Agency "National Security" for 2020. In full volume the Report of the National Security Agency is located in the register of the National classified information, the Information Security Department, Knyaz Aleksandar II Square, Room 280 and the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're moving to point one for today: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION OF CIFRIC CONTENT AND CIFRICAL SERVICES AND THE SALE OF GOODS. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, to brief us on the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u2	This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" "General provisions". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3. "Chapter 2" is to provide digital content and digital services to users. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. "Department I" "Cross." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7. "Department II" "Compliance of digital content and digital services." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15. "Department III "Consumer Protection Funds". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. Section IV - Change of digital content or digital service. Right of regression claim. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22. sales of goods to consumers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Department I" "Cross." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25. "Department II "Certificating of the goods ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u3	So far, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u4	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u5	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u6	Thank you, Madam President. After all, we are at second reading and we are voting on text. The fact that there are no proposals does not give Mr. Kanev the right to read the entire bill and vote on all the texts enblock. I am making a proposal for a separate vote by a member because we are, for some, for some we are against, for some we are abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u7	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. There are no proposals made, and so far the read text will be voted on, and from there we will continue as you wish. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text on the name of the Law, the texts of the importer from art. 1 to Art. 1 32 including. Vote 160 MPs: 141, against 4, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted. Mr. Kanev, we'll drive 10 members.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u8	"Department III "Consumer Protection Funds. Right of regression claim. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section III, the texts of the importer in art. Art. 33 to Art. 38 included. Vote 139 MPs: 124 against 1, abstention 14. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u10	Section IV - Commercial guarantee of the goods. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section IV, the texts of the importer for Articles 39 and 40 inclusive. They voted 123 MPs: 115, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u12	? Chapter four?? Advertising?? The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Four, the texts of the importer as Articles 41 to 48 inclusive. They voted 123 MPs: 113, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u14	"Chapter 5" "Contributors for solving consumer disputes". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. "Section I "Administratives of Users ". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53. Section II.... dispute resolution............................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55. "Department III................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u15	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Five; the names of Sections I, II and III; the texts of the importer as Articles 49 to 56 inclusive. They voted 104 MPs: 95, none, abstentioned 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u16	"Chapter 6............................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62. ..criminal administrative provisions.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u17	Statements? I can't see. I vote: the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 6a; the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7; the texts of the importer in art. Art. 63, Art. 75 included. 110 MPs voted: 103, none against abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u18	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u19	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the names of the subdivisions, the text of the importer for paragraphs 1 to 11 inclusive. Voted 109 MPs: 103, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. Dear colleagues, in the seats of the Chamber today is a Hungarian delegation, led by the State Secretary of the Hungarian Council of Ministers Miklos Sholtes, Mr Simeon Varga, Bulgarian advocate at the National Assembly of Hungary and Vice-President of the Friendship Group Hungary "Bulgaria" at the National Assembly of Hungary, Dr. Dancho Musev "President of the Bulgarian Republican Self-government," Mr. Richard Tirci "Department of the Hungarian Council of Ministers," and Mrs. Esther Keresthedi "Head of the Cabinet of the Secretary of State." The guests are on a three-day visit to our country on the occasion of the national holiday of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please welcome them to the Bulgarian Parliament. [[All rise and greet guests with applause.]] Thanks, guys. Moving on to point two: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR AUTOMOBILITY TRANSFERS. Importers - Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 14 January 2021, adopted in the first vote on 11 February 2021. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Letifov. The report will introduce us to Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u20	Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to allow Mr. Boyko Ranovski Executive Director of the Executive Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Please vote on the procedure so done. Vote 101 MPs: for 89, against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Ranowski to the room. Please, Mr. Valkov, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Transport Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u23	Statements? I can't see. Please vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. They voted 102 MPs: 78, against 13, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u24	Proposal by the National Representative Rosen Zhivkov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 3, p. 8 the words "damages, persons with reduced mobility, sick or injured persons' shall be replaced by "damages or persons with reduced mobility', and the words "and' shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u25	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Today we are essentially looking at a Law on which the entity is not really related to it. It is incomprehensible why it is made in twelve without five an extremely important change, which aims to regulate activity, notice, in the words of the Ministry of Health and I do not understand their absence today because their role is more important. The opinion, which was written by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications during the first two-page vote, explains how this is an important subject which needs to be regulated, but it is entirely related to the powers or rather to the opinion of the Ministry of Health, which transfers that responsibility there. Later, in their opinion at first reading, we have seen that, in the present case, in relation to the proposed Bill, we should note that transport of sick and injured persons carried out by medical institutions is not a separate individual service, but is inextricably linked to their health and is part of the medical activities provided by the medical institutions of their patients. In this regard, the persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility, sick or injured, listed in the Law, are regarded as a comprehensive collection definition for a whole group of persons, not as a definition of individual groups which, from a terminological and more medical and practical point of view, are difficult to define and divide. In practice, the Ministry of Health is against what we do, because many questions are coming further. At the last moment is made an extremely important change. Below we have made changes, which have been in the Law on Road Transports, a change published in the Official Journal, issue 60 of 2020, in force from 7 July 2020. The changes have determined that the license and registration certificate are not required for the transport of persons with disabilities, persons with reduced mobility, sick, injured persons with specific vehicles of category N 1 under the order of the Ordinance under art. 24c, para. 1. The ordinance hasn't been drawn up yet. This regulation should be made and issued by the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Health to regulate this activity. We are making a new movement in which we divide terminology, we are testing the emergency medical centers and ambulances there, and we are creating conditions for another activity that has not been regulated so far. Do you think it needs to be adjusted? There is. When exactly does it have to be done, and does there need to be a thorough debate on this subject? Certainly, because we are making one move that is not justified to please someone to do, how can I say, more tension in the system itself. And here it is not clear which sick and injured can drive the emergency medical centers and what exactly the rest of those who will be registered, licensed what we are doing today by law. This is extremely important. I'll read to you what Mr. Voynowski said because it's his statement that we can't register with the regulation. The registration regime can only be introduced by law, so we want to amend the Law so that we can introduce registration into the requirements that these centres have to meet. When is the time to specify these contracts? Who will have the right to conclude these contracts? If today we accept this provision, are both hospitals and relevant companies ready to meet these requirements? Are we creating a prerequisite to create a great chaos because we want to please someone in twelve without five today? Why is such an important provision not subject to a general discussion in order to find the approach, but to divide one activity in order to create conditions for one and obstacles to another? My request today is that we do not accept these texts, that they be examined precisely, that we find a common approach and framework for this issue and that it be decided so as to benefit both the medical institutions and the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u27	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. A line or a statement, Mr. Svilensky? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Once again, perhaps the last day of parliament, we are again looking at a purely lobbying law. Clearly, because the quest is over, there are commitments made and because someone has to finish what they started. Dear colleagues, the bill was discussed very thoroughly in the Transport Commission. We have heard completely conflicting opinions of the Ministry of Transport, of the Ministry of Health. Confronting, not between the two ministries, but contrary between the ministers, those who defended it in the Commission. Both ministries say that this is not the right step. The Ministry of Transport was working under a regulation that should regulate these things, the Ministry of Health claims that this is their commitment. Now you are facing one task of supporting a lobbying law or not supporting it. When it was first reading, I asked why there are 20 requirements for these so-called private ambulances. Now, all of a sudden, half of them are gone or one part of them. What changed from two weeks ago, so they dropped some of the requirements? Is anyone asking themselves that question? Why were these requirements written there? Why other requirements remain, which are clear that they will not be able to be fulfilled by many of those entities that carry out this activity. I call on you colleagues, let us really stand at the level of responsibility that Bulgarian citizens expect from us in the last days, do not support this bill. The Ministry of Transport is working on solving the issue and in the next parliament, the next ministry, the next Minister of Transport, or there the administration, will present a regulation that will solve all these problems. They're working on this regulation. Interestingly, when we are looking at today's Car Transport Act, we changed the Penal Code Act that criminalises illegal shipments just a month ago here in this Chamber. With this criminalisation, however, we brought in a whole industry and made criminal criminals -- these are the tour operators, the tour operators. Here I hope that there are colleagues from the Committee on Tourism who have probably been referred to for these problems. I really expected, if we were responsible for those who sent us here, to solve this problem, because from now on, until the next parliament is formed, all those people who work in the tourism industry are practically criminal criminals. And we've done this, whether consciously or unconsciously, but none of us thought of that question to solve it, and we went to defend one, for the fourth time I'll say, a lobbying bill. I call on you, indeed, not to support the proposed texts, to reject the Bill. The next parliament, the next ministries of transport and health care, they have a solution to the task, the question is to give them the opportunity to do it, and not us here with some lobbying texts to try to interfere with their work. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u29	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. A line? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Svilensky, I couldn't understand you being right about what you're saying, but how exactly would it affect the incriminating of these so-called dill ambulances? Because today we will accept a complex order of registration, licenses, as you said 20 points. My question is: if you don't answer one point, do you become an ambulance dill? Do you have a criminal responsibility? Do you want to confiscate your property? Do you do time for this work if one of the conditions is not met? The next moment, how do you think all these ambulance dills have worked so far when there hasn't been such a registration? Is there a double arsin or not? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u31	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Letifov, thank you for the line. Well, yeah, the way the bill is passed, that's what that means. However, we ask again who is carrying out the control about the question that you have asked so far how they have worked? All these years, the so-called dills seem to have been working illegally. Where were the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health to capture them and show that these people were committing a violation? When we pass laws, it's very important to think first, not think afterwards. All those questions you asked me, I'm now asking them to the Bill importers. What you asked, if one does not answer, does it mean that he becomes a criminal, that his property must be taken away, that it must be subject to the provisions of the member of the Penal Code that we have accepted? Are these illegal shipments or not? Have the importers come out and defend their law. I do not see them importers at first nor at second reading to go out and protect, stand and wait so quietly to be supported. That is why we are trying to make this debate clear in order to make it clear what the arguments are and, accordingly, each Member of the National Assembly knows how to vote, we do not always have to support everything. You just have to think about it sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u34	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! This National Assembly was marked by too much politics and quite limited business activity. It's okay to end up like this. The accusations we have heard from this tribune are deprived of any reason, as the bill has been tabled to limit and prevent the continuation of an extremely dangerous, harmful practice.... the transportation of people with urgent need for medical care to the hospital, in many cases left literally at the door of the establishment, in front of emergency aid, poured out, without even being able to continue their movement, against the corresponding amounts. It is about limiting all of these illegally operating, operating vehicles which, by imitation of the name or by misleading signs, carry out transport and are not limited. What's there to explain? I don't see what lobbying we're talking about. Of course it is about lobbying, but this lobbying benefits those people who need emergency care and whose life is put at risk, including disabled people, including elderly people. Yeah, that's lobbying, if you mean, that's it. If there was lobbying, it would be good for colleagues who are talking about lobbying to name which companies we are talking about. I'm the importer of this bill, and that offends me extremely deeply. No one's ever allowed themselves to insult me in lobbying before. Why don't you quote the companies we're talking about? How can this work be prevented? Did you know the bill wasn't submitted a week ago? Did you know that the problem is heavy, the problem has been subject to public discussion, and is discussed here in Parliament? The problem must be solved! And because the National Assembly is ending, should we leave it for the next National Assembly, which means to be considered for example in two or three months? In these months, who takes the risk of possible cases of risk, not only mortals, but people who are taken to the wrong place, and what else can't happen? I hear here reproaches that there have been changes to texts between first and second readings. This is parliamentary activity! What could be more natural than that? Yes, there have been changes, there has been a limitation of requirements, well, in terms of reducing requirements, but there must be and there must be a corresponding penalty in the Law to all those who not only violate the Law, but with their activities to affect human life. I call on all parliamentary groups to support the Law as essential. Here at one point, I agree with the speakers before I do, he's late, but does he have to be late? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u35	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Mr. Svilenski, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Simeonov, you want us to name the companies for which this law is written. I will ask you: how many legitimate companies are there that are currently carrying out this activity in Bulgaria in your opinion? You, in order to start making a bill, must have studied the process. What we have as information is that there are 50 ambulances in Sofia and about 200 in the country. That's why you're doing it, so that's what you think the dills are. And emergency services, I think it's urgent, it's not the work of these dill ambulances. It has nothing to do with the other. The Commission made it clear, that is, the Ministry's argument was that it was being done to know these private ambulances where to take the sick. They wouldn't know. She, emergency services, doesn't know where to take the sick right now, you want private ambulances to know where there are openings in hospitals, you understand what paradox we're going into? National emergency services don't have this information or the situation is changing and they don't know where to take it, and a private ambulance will know which hospital to take the sick person to. Again, this is not about emergency help for this person who needs lifesaving work. There people, doctors know who takes care of and who has a commitment, there's no way a private ambulance can take care of severely injured people. Because there must be a doctor, this doctor... the procedure is completely different and let's be clear about what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u37	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line, Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! My line is pretty much the point. I respect some of the opinion of the Ministry of Health: "In this regard, the persons with disabilities listed in the Law, persons with reduced mobility, sick or injured persons, we perceive as a comprehensive-collection definition of an overall group of persons. " Today we divide it, we question who really determines, who is deciding whether a person is sick, injured, is an emergency, or is it not an emergency? This really creates conditions for risk to the lives of Bulgarian citizens, as you say "create." Further down in the Law, when we have seen it, and we are late here there has been debate 2020, we have set in art. 24, point (c) and we have included responsibility for both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Health to issue a regulation on the basis of this provision in which to resolve this issue. Today, by dividing, we really create the conditions, how can I say, for subjectivity, which will be at the expense of the health and life of the Bulgarian citizens, on the one hand, and then this complex registration regime, who will determine the rules, who will control this activity? And these contracts that need to be concluded with medical institutions and they're mentioned later, who's going to do them, how they define them, do we know them, is there any readiness for this thing? If today comes into effect, tomorrow we'll have to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u39	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Simeonov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! In reverse order. Mr. Letifov, we propose a solution to the question, which we do not claim to be fully comprehensive, but we propose it to be considered absolutely necessary because it will bring the relevant restrictions and give its effect. Although the Law is also done, the two activities are divided. We believe that precisely this two-year waiting should now be terminated. That's the motive. And regarding Mr. Svilensky's statement that the state ambulances didn't know where to take the sick. It's not like that, and you know it isn't. It's not like that! That there were such cases that were conditioned by the pandemic, by the overload of the medical facilities, for God's sake, not to go back to this phase with 500 in the emergency cases of a horse disease, but all this was running out of resources, the capacity of these hospitals, which sometimes led to a divorce from one hospital to another. In the end, however, emergency assistance must provide real emergency assistance, providing it, and that is quite normal. After all, the entire health system, the whole world wasn't prepared for the coronavirus. It is easy to look for gaps, to make accusations, but ultimately let us get into the situation of those people who were faced with a very difficult problem, for which there was no practical solution, there was no way to get it, it was no better situation in Western Europe or in the United States. The footage speaks loudly of it. However, thank you for not once again putting forward the lobbying argument and not confirming it with facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u41	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. Vote 96 MPs: 34 against 13, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Is there a negative vote? You have the floor for a negative vote, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted negatively because I think, not just me, and not just our group, because I quote my colleague Milko Nedyalkov, "Secretly and slowly we are privatizing the national emergency care system." Because only a month ago perhaps not, when I told you and shared with you, colleagues, that there is no legal separation of emergency and emergency medical care, the urgent is not developed in law, but in regulation, and when the Ministry of Health has fixed these things clearly differentiated the tasks, it may be further placed on emergency medical care, and the urgent one, then you will see that some of the proposals will find a place in both one and the other. So, I really think the law is premature and now just pull over a number without knowing what's going to happen next.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Moving on, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u44	According to § 2 there are proposals made by the MPs Boris Yachev, Christian Mitev and Georgi Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is also a proposal from the MP Rosen Zhivkov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "Transports" shall be added to persons with disabilities or persons with reduced mobility. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) the victims of sick and injured persons under para. 1 shall be carried out by natural or legal persons registered under the Commercial Law or by legal persons registered under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities engaged in public benefit activities entered in the register under para. 5. For registration in the register under para. 5 persons must meet the requirements for financial stability laid down by the ordinance under para. 1 and have: 1. at least one special vehicle with Bulgarian registration; 2. a dispatching post meeting the requirements laid down by the ordinance under para 1; 3. a service centre meeting the requirements laid down by the ordinance under para. 1; 4. Head of transport activity meeting the requirements laid down by the regulation under para. 1 and appointed to an employment contract; 5. Head of medical activity meeting the requirements laid down by the regulation under para. 1 and appointed to an employment contract; 6. medical teams meeting the requirements laid down by the ordinance under para. 1; 7. implemented road safety management system in the latest up-to-date ISO 39001 or equivalent standard. 3. They're creating an al. 4 s 17: . (4) For state and municipal hospitals, hospital care facilities, complex oncology centres, transfer centres, state institutions for fixed psychiatric aid, municipal mental health centres, complex services centres for children with disabilities and chronic diseases and municipal homes for medical and social care for adults registered under the Law on Medical Institutions and the Bulgarian Red Cross, do not apply the requirements for financial stability and para. 3, p. 7. (5) The Executive Agency shall keep a register of persons under para. 3. The information from the register referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be provided by the competent authority of the Member State in which the register is located. 1 and 2, t. 3 letters.................................................................................................... 4 and 8 is public. The register shall include: 1. the number and date of the registration certificate; 2. name and EIC of the person under para. 3; 3. particulars of special vehicles: (a) registration number; (b) make and model; (c) type; 4. telephone number of the dispatch point; 5. address of the operating base; 6. details of the head of transport activity; 7. data on the head of medical activity; 8. date of deletion of the registration and the reasons for this. (6) The persons under para. 3 carry out the operation by own or leasing special vehicles complying with the requirements laid down by the ordinance under para. 1 and entered in the register under para. 5. (7) Special vehicles under para. 6: (a) shall be marked by the name of the person under para. 3, the telephone number for acceptance of requests for action; (b) shall not possess any external design, specific decoration, marking and familiarising signs which are used by the emergency medical centres (CSMs) or similar, the words "emergency', "emergency', "emergency', "fast' and "fast', as well as the distinguishing mark of the single European number 112; (c) they shall not hold a designation mark "The Star of Life" and "The Red Cross." (8) For entry in the register under para. 5, issue of a certificate of registration, registration or write-off of a special vehicle in the register under para. 5 or changes in circumstances, the person under para. 3 An application shall be submitted to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency, which shall be subject to the documents laid down by the ordinance under para. 1. Registration is timeless. In any change in the circumstances recorded in the register under para. 5, within 10 days of the occurrence of the change, the person under para. 3 an application to which the documents defined by the ordinance under para. apply shall be submitted. 1. (9) By the ordinance under para. 1 shall be determined the fee for issuing the registration certificate under para. 8 and to record changes. (10) In the case of irregularities and/or incompleteness of the documents submitted under para. 8 The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration shall, within 14 days, notify the person in writing and give 10 days for their removal. In the event of non-compliance and/or failure to provide the necessary information within the time limit, administrative proceedings shall be terminated. (11) The issue of the registration certificate or changes to the registration shall be carried out within 30 days of the submission of the application or the removal of the incompletes within the time limits laid down in para. 10. (12) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration shall refuse to issue a certificate of registration or entry of special vehicles in the register under para. 5 with a motivated order when the requirements of para 5 are not met. 3, 6, 7 or 8. (13) The order under para. 12 is subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. (14) Registration under para. 3 terminates: 1. at the deletion from the register under para. 5; 2. with the cessation of the business of the sole trader; 3. with the termination of the legal person; 4. upon application of the holder of the registration certificate. (15) Registration shall be deleted where: 1. it has been found to have been issued on the basis of an untrue document or a false document; 2. the person shall cease to comply with the requirements laid down by the ordinance under para. 1 or systemic infringements of this law or regulations issued on the basis of it have been committed in the course of its activity. (16) The registration shall be deleted by a reasoned order of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency. (17) The commandment under para. 16 is subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. The challenge does not stop the execution of the order.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. They voted 83 MPs: 64, against 11, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u46	Proposal from the MPs Boris Yachev, Christian Mitev and Georgi Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: It's 14 years old. allow or order the transport of sick or injured persons by motor vehicle which does not meet the requirements of art. 24c, para. 7 or not listed in the register under art. 24c, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u47	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 3 with a text on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 67 against 11, abstention 6. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u48	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Boris Yachev, Christian Mitev and Georgi Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106a, para. 1, t. point (d) (i) is replaced , (e) which is not included in a list of a certificate of registration for the carriage of sick or injured persons or the vehicle does not meet the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 24c, para. 1 or when the vehicle is marked, the requirements of art. 24c, para. 7. According to § 4, there is a proposal from the MPs Boris Yachev, Christian Mitev and Georgi Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Rosen Zhivkov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 59: I'm sorry, The transport of sick and injured persons is a transport of natural persons or patients whose condition is not urgent and therefore do not fall within the scope of the concept of "emergency patients" under the ordinance of art. 6, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, but they need or their state of health requires the use of specialized medical transport with special vehicles equipped for this purpose. The scope of this transport is not covered by the transports carried out by the Emergency Medical Centers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u49	Statements? Mr. Svilensky, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am making a procedure to suspend or postpone the viewing of this bill, since in § 1, we rejected the possibility of dividing the two types of sick persons, if I may say so, and of creating this register, then we accept the criteria for the register and we will make some chaos in the Car Transport Act. That is why my procedure is to postpone or suspend the bill. I do not know how we can stop the review of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u51	I get it. I'm going to vote on Mr. Svilensky's proposal. Vote 84 MPs: 18, Against 55, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 3, which shall become § 4, and § 4, which shall become § 5. Vote 78 MPs: 66, against 10, abstention 2. The proposals have been passed, with which we have completed this law. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CLOSED AND ARMED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Who will present the bill? You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u53	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put the proposed texts to the vote. Vote 71 MPs: 66 against 1, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u54	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 8 but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of the Decree on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts proposes that § 8 be divided into § 8 and a new § 9 by the following wording: ................................................................................... Article 60b is amended as follows: Art. 60b. The Joint Command of Forces, Land Forces Command, Air Force Command and Naval Forces, Joint Command of Special Operations, Logistic Support Command and Communication Information Support Command and Cyber Defence Command shall be led by commanders assisted by headquarters who form the operational level of command and management in the Bulgarian Army. ..................................................... Article 60c is amended as follows: Art. 60c. (1) Commanders of the Joint Command of Forces, Land Forces, Air Force, Naval Forces, Joint Command of Special Operations, Logistic Support Command and Communication Information Support Command and Cyber Defence Command shall be directly subordinate to the Chief of Defence and shall exercise command and management of their subordinate military formations. (2) The commander of the Joint Command of the Forces shall carry out the operational command and management of the military formations assigned to him by the structures under art. 60a, para. 2, p. 2 "5" in the case of joint operations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u55	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the division of Paragraph 8 into paragraphs 8 and 9 by an amendment proposed under the Commission report. Vote 72 MPs: 65 against 2, abstention 5. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u56	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 60e is amended as follows: Art. 60e. (1) Joint Command of Forces, Ground Forces, Air Force, Naval Forces, Joint Command of Special Operations, Logistic Support Command and Communication Information Support Command and Cyber Defence are legal entities of budget support responsible for: 1. the management of the properties provided to them; 2. the expenditure of the funds for supplies, works and services within the limit set by the Minister of Defence, unless carried out by the Minister; 3. the management of movable property 4. the disposal of their surplus movable property. Private government property, except: (a) weapons, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles; (b) defence-related products which are not weapons, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles and dual-use products; (c) general-purpose movable items designated by an act of the Minister of Defence which are transferred to the Ministry of Defence. (2) The order with the movable items under para. 1, t. 4 letters..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u57	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 9, which shall become § 10. 90 MPs voted: 82 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u59	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the texts proposed by Mr Popov. Vote 97 MPs: 82, none, abstention 15. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u60	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25. Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Military Intelligence Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 after the words "armed forces".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) in para. 2 the commander of the Joint Commander of the Special Operations Joint Command shall be added after the words 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19, p. 1 after the word "forces" shall be comma, and the words "and command of the types of armed forces" shall be replaced by "in command of the types of armed forces and in the Joint Command of the special operations." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Regulation (EC) No 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. The Joint Commander of the Armed Forces Joint Command shall be replaced by the Commander of the Joint Force Command, the Commanders of the Armed Forces Types and the Commander of the Joint Commander of the Special Operations Joint Commander. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2 the word "the Commander" shall be replaced by the Commander and after the words "the Armed Forces" the Commander of the Joint Commander of the Special Operations Command, the Commander of the Logistics Support Command, the Commander of the Communication Information Support Command and the Cyber Defence Command shall be added. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Joint Commander of the Joint Commander-in-Chief of the Forces and Commanders of Armed Forces shall be replaced by the Commander-in-Chief of the Joint Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces and the Commander-in-Chief of the Joint Commander-in-Chief of the Special Operations. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 words from the Joint Commander-in-Chief of the Force and the Commanders of the Armed Forces shall be replaced by the Commander of the Joint Commander of the Force and in the case of independent operations by the Commanders of the Armed Forces and the Commander of the Joint Commander of the Special Operations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u61	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm voting on the reported texts. Vote 98 MPs: 84, against 1, abstention 13. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u62	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MP Konstantin Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 point (s) is amended as follows: , (i) Commander of the Joint Command of the Forces and Commanders of the Land Forces, the Air Force and the Naval Forces, the Commander of the Joint Command of the Special Operations, the Commander of the Logistics Support Command and the Commander of the Communication Information Support Command and cyber defence;
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u63	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote proposals by the Commission a text for editing. They voted 97 MPs: for 3, against 1, abstention 93. The text hasn't been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u64	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u65	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28. Vote 98 MPs: 86, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u66	Proposal from the MPs Boris Kirchev and Emil Hristov: To create a new paragraph...: ????????????????? In the Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for support of farmers (prom., SG No. The following amendments and additions shall be made to Paragraph 12 of the Final Provisions: "1." In para. 1 is created t. 7. "7." investment projects of companies - strategic sites that are relevant for national security under the Annex to art. 7, para. 1 of Decree of the Council of Ministers No 181 of 20 July 2009 determining the strategic sites and activities relevant for national security (prom, SG No. ...................................................................... 2. In para. 2, p. 1 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u67	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the proposed text to the vote. Vote 97 MPs: 85 against 7, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u68	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u69	Statements? I won't. I shall put the proposed texts to the vote. They voted 93 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN PERSONAL DOCUMENTS. Report on the first vote of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u70	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 102-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2021. At its regular meeting held on 24 February 2021, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, No 102-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2021. The meeting was attended by: Mihail Zlatanov, Deputy Minister of Interior; Commissioner Zvezdelin Kolev, Head of the Department of the Road Police The bill and its motives were presented by Mr. Ivan Kondov, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents aims at detailed and precise regulation of the grounds on which applications for the issue of driving licences may be submitted; the introduction of a legal level of the types of services when issuing and replacing a driving licence for motor vehicles; the introduction of a new administrative service for the Bulgarian citizens when replacing a driving licence for motor vehicles with a period of up to three working days from the submission of the application. It is also intended to refine the circle of entities for which there is a legal basis for issuing a diplomatic or service passport. The category of persons to be settled only at the legal level in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, with a new version of art. 38, para. 1, t. 2 for posts entitled to this type of document. The Law also aims to eliminate the practical possibility of every active Bulgarian citizen to receive a service passport if he registers a non-profit legal entity, which is an association, federation or branch organisation, and is elected in their management. Only members of the guides of licensed sports federations entered in the register under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, as well as members of the manuals of representative employees' organisations at national level and representative employers' organisations at national level to have legal grounds for obtaining a service passport. The adoption of the Bill does not lead to the need to provide additional funds. Deputy Minister Mihail Zlatanov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Interior by expressing support for the bill. People's representative Mr. Krasimir Tzipov made a procedural proposal to examine the bill and the second vote, which was unanimously supported. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 102-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u71	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Statements, coworkers? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 102-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 82 MPs: 65, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nunev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, which has just been adopted in the first vote, No 102-01-15, to be considered in the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u73	I shall put the proposal to the vote. 86 MPs voted: 71, Against 9, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please provide the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u74	The Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents was amended and supplemented by the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 1, and in it the words "Denmarks" under para. 2, p. 1 shall be indicated by the applicant and the comma after them shall be replaced by the other in the cases under para. 3, the data under para. 2, p. 1 shall be indicated by the applicant and shall refer to the applicant. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, i.e. 2 (c) the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 3 and in it the words "Danish" under para. 3, p. 1 shall be indicated by the applicant and the comma after them shall be replaced by the other in the cases under para. 4, the data under para. 3, p. 1 shall be indicated by the applicant and shall refer to the applicant. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 5, and in it all the words "engine vehicles' shall be replaced by "engine vehicles'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, in which it shall be replaced by "do'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-04.u75	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer and the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission for the relevant texts of the importer. Vote 77 MPs: 68 against 2, abstention 7. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. I will now introduce you to the proposal for parliamentary control for 5 March 2021, as we have exhausted the points provided for today in the Programme: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from MPs Krum Zarkov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 2. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova. 3. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer two questions from the MP Maria Tsvetkova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva of a question by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Veska Nencheva; and 11 questions with a written answer from the MPs Dora Yankova 10 questions; and Alexander Matsurev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to a question written by the National Representative Desislava Todorova. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova will not participate; the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva; and the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev. The next regular plenary session of 5 March 2021 from 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned.
