ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I will only inform you that on August 4th, the withdrawal of the submitted Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities of the protected territory of the peninsula of Buzaka, falling within the territorial scope of the municipality of Sozopol, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, and this item will therefore be dropped from the agenda for this week. Mrs. Vassileva asked for the floor of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, you know that yesterday two of the firefighters who are fighting fires in the country lost their lives. There is an order in the Rules that requires one-minute silence, but I believe that this case is exceptional and I suggest that we honor with a minute of silence the memory of the two firefighters whose lives have gone away in the performance of their duties.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I'm asking for a minute's silence. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u4	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is to drop the point for a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances, not to read the entire title and save you time. I propose that, since yesterday's proposal has been submitted identically with the same name, the same proposal, the point to remain, and my procedure is for you to submit it, because you have this right under the Rules of Procedure, because yesterday, such a proposal was tabled not to drop the point as it is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u5	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. In view of the big debate on this committee, given the tensions created and given that a project was submitted and then withdrawn and again a project was submitted on the basis of art. 53, para. Five, I'm turning on the point at the drop point. I think it's not the most balanced and fair. Thank you. We continue with the National Assembly Rule of Procedure Project. Under art. 16 there is a proposal from the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski for the name of the Economic Commission "The Economic Policy, Innovation and Tourism Commission." Please, voting mode. Vote 188 MPs: 105, against 42, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. In that case, I will not submit the proposal from the Commission. We are moving on to the next controversial committee. We are going back to the main text by importer, as we decided yesterday "The Education and Science Commission" and separately the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. If you want to vote on both separate committees? I vote on this proposal for two separate committees. They voted 195 MPs: 169, against 3, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. We move on to Mr. Zhelyazkov's proposal. Is Mr. Zhelyazkov here? I don't see him. I put to the vote this proposal for a name for the Board of Directors, e-government and high-tech. Vote 190 MPs: 78, against 67, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Do you want a re-vote or not? I don't see anyone who wants to re-vote. I put the Commission to a vote as proposed by the Commission. "The Digitalisation, Electronic Governance and Information Technologies Commission." 200 MPs voted: 147, against 17, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. We move on to Maya Manolova's proposal for the name of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad as the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Please, voting mode. They voted 198 MPs: 117 against 37, abstention 44. The proposal is accepted, and with this all made yesterday's proposals. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter Five and Article 5. 16 in the Commission's version of the proposals already adopted. 200 MPs voted: 197, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u6	There is a proposal made by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new Article 16a. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u7	Statements on the proposal to create art. 16a? Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal we have made is based on the experience of previous national meetings and of my personal president of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The need for some form of constant coordination between committee chairmen, and here in this Parliament there are others, has proven itself over time. Very often it turns out that committee chairmen, especially who come from different political groups, do not have the opportunity to coordinate sufficiently both the legislative programme of the National Assembly and the way legislation passes and is planned in the various committees, and also some other technical issues from the work of the committees relating to the interaction between them, including at expert level, and other issues that are important for the functioning of Parliament. In fact, the motor of a National Assembly is the committees, and that is why this type of coordination is really necessary for the effective work of Parliament. We have done this, including on my initiative, inferno hock, but also in other parliaments, including in the European Parliament, by the way, there is such a format as the Board of Committees, which is really very useful. That is why we have made this proposal. I believe that support for this is not an attempt to seize the functions of one or another authority already existing or which we will now introduce into the work of the National Assembly. This is not a seizure of the functions of the Conference of Presidents, as there may be, it is simply a way of communication, coordination between committees and their chairmen. I think it will be useful and I suggest that we support this proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to create art. 16a. They voted 191 MPs: 43, against 89, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u10	The Commission shall support the text for art. 17. Under art. 18 there is a proposal made by the MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. (1) When determining the composition of the Standing Committees, the ratio between the number of parliamentary groups shall be maintained, except for the Standing Committee on Art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 10. The National Assembly may appoint seats in the Standing Committees for Members of the National Assembly who are not members of a parliamentary group. (2) The management of each Standing Committee shall consist of a Chair and up to 4 Vice-Presidents. The committee's management shall organise its work on the basis of information entered into the committee. (3) The management and members of the Standing Committees shall be elected on a proposal from the Parliamentary Groups or from a Member of the National Assembly with a clear vote in full, unless an objection has been raised against any of the proposed candidates. (4) The Chair of the Committee shall direct the meetings and maintain contacts with the Chairs of the other committees and with the President of the National Assembly. (5) In the absence of the Chair, he shall authorise one of the Vice-Presidents to lead the committee. In the absence of authorization, the President of the National Assembly shall authorise one of the Vice-Presidents to lead the committee. Under art. 18a has a proposal of the People's President Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 21, para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote art. 17 and 18 with the so-called editing. Vote 189 MPs: 187, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u12	Under art. 19 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1, t. 2 after the word "proposals', a parliamentary group or a parliamentary group shall be added and the word "half' shall be replaced by a third group shall be replaced. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of art. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u13	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 192 MPs: for 30, against 129, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on art. 19 on the Commission. Vote 180 MPs: 155 against 1, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u14	The Commission shall support the text for art. 20. Under art. 21 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2, supports, in principle, the proposal under point 2. 3 et cetera. 1 in the part establishing the Sub-Committee on Budgetary Control and does not support it under point 1. 1 in the rest of it and in t. 4. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 83. para. 6. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Victoria Vasileva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. (1) Permanent committees may form subcommittees from their composition, as well as working groups. (2) The Committee on Budget and Finance shall establish a permanent subcommittee for the control of public funds. (3) The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs shall be established on a permanent basis for: 1. fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics; 2. monitoring and analysis of legislation in accordance with the principles and norms of the European Union and international standards for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and for the analysis of the legal consequences of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. (4) The Committee on Economic Policy, High Technology and Tourism shall establish permanent subcommittees: 1. to monitor the activities in the field of consumer protection and the limitation of monopolies; 2. on tourism. (5) The Committee on Energy and Climate shall establish a permanent subcommittee on green policies and climate. (6) The Committee on European Union Affairs shall be set up by a permanent subcommittee to control the management of European funds. (7) The Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications and Sub-Committees under para. 3, p. 1 and para. Six are formed on a parietal principle. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act shall be chaired alternately for a parliamentary session according to the number of parliamentary groups. (8) The Standing Committees may set up public councils by representatives of civil organisations to ask them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to make the following proposal to art. 21, para. 5 which at the moment sounds: The Energy and Climate Committee is set up a permanent subcommittee for green policies and climate. The Editorial to look like this: The Energy and Climate Committee is set up on a permanent basis sub-Commissions for green policies and climate and for monitoring the activities of KEWRC. I have no explanation why the Project importers cease a good practice at the previous National Assemblys to have a special committee.. constantly active, which monitors the work of the KEWRC, or as was in the last Parliament.. a subcommittee to monitor the work of the KEWRC. They have established themselves to these committees and subcommittees, as a good place for debate, which have provided an opportunity in their current composition to the previous two parliaments and citizens and to non-governmental organisations to raise issues that are important to citizens. In view of the KEWRC's practices over the last year and a half, in line with the pandemic, to hold all their meetings online, they practically cut off the opportunity for a citizen to get anywhere near a KEWRC meeting. The only ones who have the opportunity to do it online are those who are previously stated. At present, the practice shows that this is the only Ombudsman Mrs. Diana Kovacheva and I as Chairman of the Civil Platform. БГ!................................................................................................... But there are many NGOs, civil experts, citizens who have good proposals to improve the work of the KEWRC and to protect the rights of Bulgarian consumers. I really do not understand why a good practice that existed in the forty-fourth Parliament, for the forty-fifth Parliament, will not comment, because for those nine days there was no way at all to make committees and subcommittees, but since there is a solution and agreement between the parliamentary groups to make savings on permanent committees, at least a subcommittee that will constantly deal with the work of the KEWRC is more than necessary. I just point out that the price growth of all the main food products, of all the main goods, is also linked to an increase in the price of electricity. There has been a drastic increase in the price of electricity, steam and hot water since 1 July, and it is coming from 1 January, if the National Assembly does not intervene, there will also be a drastic increase in the price of water related to the adoption of the business plans of the water operators, which will very seriously burden the Bulgarian citizens. Besides, KEWRC, I assume you all have surveillance, exist with the sense of self-sufficientness and infallibility. In their practice very often the distortion is in the direction of the economically strong and rather than being a balance between the interests of the energy companies and the Bulgarian citizens as consumers, they usually defend the strong side of the energy companies. In fact, the possibilities for judicial review by civil organisations and citizens are not only limited, they are seized, so the only way citizens can protect their interests, ask questions is the committee in parliament. Of course, we from Stand up BG! We are coming! suppose our proposals for hearings, as we have done in the Parliament Program for this week, but let us carry the real work on this topic where it belongs in the permanent subcommittee. So, please, and in the context of keeping good practices of the previous parliaments, let us leave the subcommittee for monitoring the activities of the KEWRC.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I can't see. Here's a suggestion, Mr. Hinoski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm proposing a change in the wording of this. 1 to para. 4 For monitoring the activity on the subcommittee for monitoring the activities in the field of consumer protection and restriction of monopolies. This is nonsense because there are a number of natural monopolies in Bulgarian economic life that cannot be limited. That means limiting their activities. For example, it is about network operators of electricity distribution companies, it is about a number of other cable operators. Instead of the word limit, this also means practical limitation, non-interference in their business, business planning, must be replaced. I propose, instead of the restriction, the observation of the monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u19	That is to say, for monitoring the activities in the area of consumer protection and monopoly protection?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u20	Yeah, specifically. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u21	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no other proposals or speeches. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported part of Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs on the European Fund Control Sub-Committee to the Budget and Finance Committee. It is currently proposed to be with the European Union Committee on Affairs. It is supported with regard to the control part of budgetary resources. They voted 178 MPs: 33, against 103, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I will now put to the vote Maya Manolova's proposal in para. 5 of art. 21 to create permanent subcommittees for green policies and climate; and to monitor the activities of the KEWRC. Vote 179 MPs: 120 against 31, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. We move on to Ivan Hinovski's proposal to drop the word "limitation" in para. 4 t. 1 and the subcommittee shall be to monitor the activities in the area of consumer protection and monopoly protection. They voted 182 MPs: 84, against 52, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on art. 20, as reported, and Art. 21, reported by the Chair of the Temporary Commission, together with the proposals adopted. Vote 179 MPs: 173, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u22	Under art. 22 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments shall be made: 1. All over the text, the words.............................. and the interaction with civil society..................................... the interaction with civil society................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 1 t. 6... is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) The Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society: 1. give opinions on the proposals for referendums and civic initiatives under the Law on direct participation of citizens in the state power and local self-government, as well as petitions under art. 45 of the Constitution; 2. examines and gives opinions on online petitions to citizens; 3. hold public discussions on issues of significant public interest; 4. carrying out parliamentary and civil monitoring of the activities of the state regulatory authorities through public discussions; the conclusions of the discussions shall be sent to the relevant competent committees; 5. examine and deliver opinions on proposals for improving the legislation relating to cases leading to State liability for damages; 6. performs other functions of a permanent committee. (2) The Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society shall provide the possibility of direct participation through a portal for the submission of online petitions. The Commission shall prepare a report on the subject of each petition which forms an integral part of the petition and shall be submitted to the relevant committee responsible. (3) The Commission shall be set up for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society by representatives of civil organisations to consult the Commission. The composition, the way the council is formed and the interaction with civil society shall be determined by rules adopted by the committee. Rules shall be published on the website of the Committee on the website of the National Assembly. (4) The Commission for the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society shall hold a regular joint meeting with the Public Council by representatives of civil organisations every three months, as well as extraordinary at the initiative of the Commission or the Council. (5) The Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society together with the Public Council, on its own initiative or on a proposal from natural or legal persons may carry out an evaluation of the legislation in force in order to improve legislation and avoid future cases of state liability. The Commission shall adopt conclusions and proposals and send them to the relevant committees where the State is ordered to pay compensation for damage caused. (6) The Commission for the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society shall submit to the National Assembly every three months a report on its activities, which shall be discussed by the Members of the National Assembly in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. They gave me a signal from the BSP for Bulgaria that the proposal was withdrawn. In that case, if there are no speeches, I do not see, I shall put to the vote art. 22 in the version read by Mrs. Vassileva. Vote 174 MPs: for 172, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u24	Under art. 23 there is a proposal made by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and supports, in principle, the proposal under point 2. 1. A proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) In relation to the activity of the Sub-Committee for the Control of Public Funds and at the request of the Chair of the Budget and Finance Committee, the chief authorising officers with a budget shall draw up reports on the implementation of certain budgets and programmes to be submitted to the subcommittee within the time limits set in the request. (2) The Chair of the Court of Auditors and the Minister of Finance or their alternates and other persons shall take part in the meetings of the subcommittee at the invitation of the Chair of the subcommittee. (3) After the discussion of the reports under para. 1 The Chair of the subcommittee shall draw up a report assessing the implementation of the budget to be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Members of the National Assembly. Under art. 24 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. At least every three months, a discussion shall be held in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with the participation of the Prosecutor General in the implementation of the law and the activities of prosecutors and investigative bodies, including legislative changes, resource assurance, difficulties related to the performance of these bodies, results in the fight against crime, including. corruption, interaction with the investigating authorities. A discussion on the application of the law and the activities of the institutions entrusted to them shall also be held at the initiative of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Prosecutor General. For the outcome of the discussions, the committee shall draw up a report to be submitted to the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u25	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. Please, voting regime of art. Art. 23, Art. 24, as amended by the Commission. Vote 179 MPs: for 177, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u26	Under art. 25 has a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Atanas Slavov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25, para. 2 sentence first, the expression "public discussion" is replaced by "public consultation." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The Standing Committees shall examine bills, the annual programme under art. 115, draft decisions, declarations and addresses and other proposals distributed to them by the President of the National Assembly, draw up reports, proposals and opinions on them. (2) The bills shall be dealt with in the first vote following a public discussion by the committee responsible and the publication of a report with the results thereof on the website of the committee concerned on the website of the National Assembly. The report shall be published within three days of the discussion being held. (3) The Standing Committees may award under the conditions of art. 17 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly carrying out a follow-up assessment of the impact of the laws aimed at establishing their effectiveness and level of achievement of the objectives. (4) The Standing Committees shall, in accordance with their own subject-matter, monitor the extent of absorption and the appropriate and lawful spending of funds and programmes of the European Union by providing information to the Sub-Committee on the management of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Yordanova and Slavov. They voted 170 MPs: 75, against 61, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 25. Vote 166 MPs: 165, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u28	Under art. 26 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26, para. 2 after the word......................................................................................... is added to the parliamentary group The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u29	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 173 MPs: 32, against 133, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on art. 26 on the Commission report. They voted 167 MPs: 153, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u30	Under art. 27 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Atanas Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. (1) At the beginning of the meetings of the Standing Committees, every first Tuesday, first Wednesday or Thursday of the month, the Regional Ministers shall appear before the relevant Committees and shall answer any relevant oral questions made by members of the Committees at the meeting itself. The questions addressed must relate to specific policies and may not contain requests for detailed numerical data. (2) Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to two topical oral questions, and the Members of the National Assembly shall not be members of a parliamentary group. (3) The minister to whom the question has been addressed shall answer immediately after the question has been asked. In the event of the Minister's absence due to sickness or secondment outside the country, the chairman of the committee shall, in agreement with him, determine the meeting to which he will answer up-to-date oral questions. (4) The order to ask the current oral questions under para. 1 shall be determined according to the number of parliamentary groups in descending order, the last in line being a Member of the National Assembly not belonging to a parliamentary group. Asking the second questions is in the same order after the procedure on the first questions is exhausted. (5) The time for the presentation of the question shall be up to 2 minutes. The minister's answer is in three minutes. The MP who asked the question is entitled to a reply of up to 2 minutes and the Minister is also entitled to a reply of up to 2 minutes. Under art. 28 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 28 para. 3 after the word "inquisitive" is added a parliamentary group or a pronoun is replaced by a committee. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 28: Art. 28. (1) The meetings of the Standing Committees shall be regular and extraordinary. The Standing Committees shall hold regular meetings from Tuesday to Friday, at least once a week. (2) The agenda, periodicity and duration of committee meetings shall be determined by them. (3) The Standing Committee shall be convened at a meeting together with a draft agenda by its Chair on its own initiative, at the request of at least one third of its members or by the President of the National Assembly. Under art. 29 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 29: Art. 29. (1) The meetings of the Standing Committees shall be open. The meetings are broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, as well as in the official profiles of the National Assembly in social networks. (2) The committees may decide to close separate meetings. (3) The meetings of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications shall be closed. By decision of that committee, separate meetings may be opened. (4) By way of exception, the Standing Committees may hold open meetings outside the capital. Under art. 30 there is a proposal of the MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 30: Art. 30. (1) Citizens may attend the meetings of the committees subject to the access regime of the National Assembly and the order established in the committees. The list of persons present shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. (2) Representatives of civil organisations, trade unions, consensus and branch organisations may submit written opinions and may, on their initiative, attend the meetings of the committees and take part in discussions on the draft acts of the National Assembly concerned with their subject-matter, subject to the order established in the committees. The list of persons present, representatives of organisations, shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. The opinions shall be published on the website of the relevant committee on the website of the National Assembly. (3) The representatives of organizations under para. 2, written observations shall be submitted and shall be invited to attend the meetings of the committee. (4) Any member of a permanent committee may invite individuals or representatives of legal persons concerned with the matters concerned by the committee to participate in its meeting. The list of invited persons shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. (5) Accredited journalists and other journalists who are granted access may attend the open meetings of the Standing Committees of the National Assembly. (6) Members of the National Assembly who are not members of the relevant committee may participate in all its meetings without the right to vote. (7) The participation of Members of the National Assembly in closed meetings of committees in which they are not members, documents and the topics to which they have been acquainted shall be recorded in a special protocol and signed by the same. (8) Those participating in committee meetings shall comply with the requirements relating to the protection of classified information and information under the Personal Data Protection Act, as well as with information relating to the privacy and good name of citizens. The Commission shall support the text for art. 31. The Commission shall support the text for art. 32. The Commission shall support the text for art. 33. The Commission shall support the text for art. 34. Under art. 35 there is a proposal of the MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 35: Art. 35. (1) For the meetings of the Permanent and Temporary Committees of the National Assembly there shall be a shorthand protocol, as well as an audio recording. (2) The minutes shall be signed by the Chair of the Commission and by the lead minutes. The minutes shall state the outcome of the vote by parliamentary groups. (3) The minutes of the discussion of bills shall be published on the committee's website on the National Assembly's website within 7 days of the meeting and no later than 72 hours before the examination of the report in plenary, unless the committee decides otherwise. The audio recording shall be published on the committee's website on the National Assembly's website at the latest the following day after the meeting. (4) The minutes of the closed meetings of the Standing Committees shall have a special storage, reporting and access regime as required by the Classified Information Protection Act. Under art. 36 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposed by MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 36: Art. 36. (1) Temporary committees shall be formed on a specific occasion, for the examination of individual issues and for the conduct of surveys. (2) The temporary committees shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President or from a parliamentary group. (3) The subject, the number, composition and duration of the temporary committees shall be determined by the National Assembly. (4) The working rules of the Standing Committees shall also apply to temporary committees. (5) The temporary committees shall cease to exist by expiry of the period for which they have been established or by decision of the National Assembly. The Commission shall support the text for art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u31	I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs under art. 28, para. 3. Vote 149 MPs: 31, against 112, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the so-called texts of art. Art. 27, Art. 37 included. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u32	You want to separate into art. 28? Okay. I shall put to the vote art. Art. 27, Art. Article 29 37 including the Commission report. Vote 151 MPs: 149, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 28 on the Commission report. They voted 150 MPs: 122, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u33	sixth chapter of the National Assembly's Permanent Delegations. The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter Six. The Commission shall support the text for art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u34	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put the name of Chapter Six to the vote, together with art. 38 on the report. Vote 148 MPs: 148, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u35	"The National Assembly's meetings and sessions. The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text for art. 39. The Commission shall support the text for art. 40. The Commission shall support the text for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text for art. 42. The Commission shall support the text for art. 43. Under art. 44 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposed by MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 44: Art. 44. (1) The meetings of the National Assembly shall be closed when: 1. important state interests require this; 2. documents classified under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information shall be discussed. (2) Proposal for a closed session under para. 1, t. 1 may make the President of the National Assembly, a parliamentary group or the Council of Ministers. (3) In the case of a proposal for a closed meeting under para. 1, t. 1 The President shall order all outsiders to leave the hall and the balconies, as well as to suspend direct media transmission and broadcast on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, as well as in the official profiles of the National Assembly on social networks. After listening to the proposal's motives, the National Assembly discussed and voted on the proposal. In accordance with the outcome of the vote, the sitting shall continue as closed or open. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 The sittings are closed without discussing and voting. The President shall communicate the graffiti by which the document is classified under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and shall order all outsiders to leave the hall and balconies, and the direct transmission to the media and broadcasting to the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, as well as in the official profiles of the National Assembly on social networks, after which the meeting shall continue as closed without discussing and voting. (5) The discussions and minutes of the closed meeting shall be classified and shall bind to the respective duties all Members of the National Assembly and other persons having access to them. (6) Decisions taken in closed session shall be made public. The Commission shall support the text for art. 45. The Commission shall support the text for art. 46. The Commission shall support the text for art. 47. The Commission shall support the text for art. 48. Under art. 49 there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Julian Nenchev and Galina Tavalicka-Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 49: Art. 49. (1) In procedural matters the word shall be given immediately, unless there are requests for a reply, a duplicate or an explanation of a negative vote. (2) Rules of Procedure shall be those which object to a specific violation of the procedure for holding the meetings provided for in these Rules, or which contain proposals for amendment and addition to the agreed order for development of the meeting, including those for: 1. termination of the meeting; 2. delay of the sitting; 3. termination of the debates; 4. delay of the debates; 5. Postpone the vote. (3) The procedural questions shall be raised within no more than 2 minutes, without prejudice to the substance of the main question. (4) Where the procedural question concerns the manner in which the meeting is held, the President shall be entitled to an explanation up to 2 minutes. The Commission shall support the text for art. 50. The Commission shall support the text for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u36	I'm debating these texts. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of Chapter 7 with Articles 39 to 51 inclusive. Vote 148 MPs: for 144, against none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u37	Under art. 52 there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, para. 3, p. 2 at the end of the sentence after the words The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text for art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u38	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal, which was made by the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, is actually not to include the procedural issues of first voting in the group's general time, as it has been so far. We believe that in the first vote, when exposing the philosophy of a law, the procedural questions should not be eaten up, I apologize for the expression from the time of the group. We know what this is about, on the other hand, that it is very often speculated. However, there is the role of the head of the sitting to take away the floor of the one who speculates if he speculates. I think the point of the proposal is clear. I call on you not to deprive any group, if there is a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the sitting, to be able to take account of this infringement, once again, as long as it is a real violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 46 against 88 abstention 4. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u41	Can I have a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u42	Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! I call on you not to accept texts in this House that will take away democratic opportunities for parliamentary groups to react. Whether I have ever been in parliament in the ruling majority or in opposition, I have never allowed myself to propose and support proposals that would normally limit that part of the House that will be opposition. However, in this case, there is at all a right of parliamentary groups to react when there are violations of the Rules of Procedure and in all other cases where this is necessary, you know that there are situations where the opportunities for response are solely for procedural matters. So I'm asking you to reconsider once more. The President's comfort is one thing, and democracy in some cases is another. So let us defend the right of MPs and parliamentary groups to react. I am sure that Mrs. Miteva can cope in any situation with her experience and character. So let us not restrict neither the MPs nor the parliamentary groups. I suggest we support the proposal Mr. Glauchev made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I, too, said in the Commission that I could handle and do not worry about this text, including the misuse of this text, which we have seen very clearly in yesterday's debate. I think you all realize that. In the Commission, I also said that this was GERB's proposal from 2019, even more restrictive. So the debate on the manner of conduct seems to be constantly taking place. This is the practice in other countries as well. I said it in the Commission, I do not want to repeat myself. I am re-voting the proposal made by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Vote 157 MPs: 72 against 76 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on art. 52, reported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u45	The Commission shall support the text for art. 53. The Commission shall support the text for art. 54. The Commission shall support the text for art. 55. Under art. 56 there is a proposal of the MP Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 56: Art. 56. (1) When a procedural proposal has been made, the floor shall be given to a Member of the National Assembly who disagrees with it. The proposal shall be put to the vote immediately without discussion. (2) The exercise of the law under para. 1 shall not affect the rights of the parliamentary groups under art. 52, para. 1 and 2. The Commission shall support the text for art. 57. The Commission shall support the text for art. 58. The Commission shall support the text for art. 59. The Commission shall support the text for art. 60. The Commission shall support the text for art. 61. Under art. 62 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text for art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote Articles 52 to 62 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u47	Rule 52, let's vote on it separately!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u48	I put to the vote art. 52, but as Mrs. Manolova cried out: 'By groups, I waited for the vote 'the system didn't read it, so I'm turning it on now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u49	Don't turn it on now, turn it on separately!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u50	All right, vote separately, Art. 52 on the Commission report. Vote 151 MPs: 95 against 55, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Articles 53 to 62 inclusive. Vote 152 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u51	Under art. 63 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 63, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 words discussed... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u52	Retreat! The motion is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u53	Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 63: Art. 63. (1) The vote shall take place in the following order: 1. proposals for rejection; 2. proposals to postpone the next sitting; 3. proposals for editorial or legal and technical amendments; 4. a text discussed which may also contain already approved editorial or legal and technical amendments; 5. main proposal. (2) Where there are two or more proposals of the same nature, they shall be voted in accordance with the procedure in which they are received. Under art. 64 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 64. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text for art. 64. The Commission shall support the text for art. 65. The Commission shall support the text for art. 66. The Commission shall support the text for art. 67. Under art. 68 there is a proposal of the MP Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 68: Art. 68. Members of the National Assembly may review their speeches from the plenary sittings and request the correction of errors within three days of the drafting of the stenographic protocol. The disputes that have arisen shall be resolved by the Chair on a report by the Secretaries on duty and the stenographer in the presence of the National Representative. The Commission shall support the text for art. 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u54	Thank you. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for art. 64, para. 2. Vote 156 MPs: 52, against 96, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on articles 63 to 69, including the Commission report. Vote 153 MPs: for 152, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u55	Chapter Eight: Introduction, discussion and adoption of bills and other acts of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter Eight. Under art. 70 there is a proposal received by the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 70: Art. 70. (1) The bills of reasons to them and the ex ante impact assessment shall be submitted to the President of the National Assembly by: 1. MPs in paper and electronic form or in the form of an electronic document signed with a qualified electronic signature, allowing subsequent editing of the content; 2. The Council of Ministers in the form of an electronic document signed with a qualified electronic signature, allowing subsequent editing of the content. Drafts shall be registered in a public register without delay........................................................................................................ (2) Where the bills are submitted by the Council of Ministers, they shall be subject to: 1. a reference to compliance with European Union law in the event of harmonisation; 2. a reference for the reporting of the opinions received on the relevant bill from the public consultation and from the interdepartmental coordination procedure; 3. a reference to compliance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. (3) Where the bills are submitted by Members of the National Assembly, the preliminary impact assessment shall be according to the methodology, annex to the Rules of Procedure, applying art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on Legislative Acts. (4) In the reasons the importer shall give an opinion on the expected consequences, including financial, of the implementation of the bill. (5) The reasons for the draft bills relating to the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union shall indicate a specific part of European Union law which imposes the relevant regulation and whether the bill has been notified or is to be notified before its adoption in accordance with Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services (OB, L 241/1 of 17 September 2015). , hereinafter referred to as "Directive (EU) Butane'. In the event of the initiation of a procedure for failure to comply with obligations arising from European Union law, the reasons shall describe the specific infringement as well as the response received upon request sent to the European Commission via the electronic network within the framework of the EC Law Project (EU Pilot). (6) Projects to which no reasoning and/or prior impact assessment have been applied shall not be allocated according to the order of art. 71 from the President of the National Assembly until the irregularity notified to the importer has been eliminated. In this case, the term referred to in art. 71, para. 1 begins to run from the day of the elimination of irregularness. (7) The bills to which the references under para. 2 shall not be considered by the National Assembly until the irregularness of which the chairman of the committee responsible shall inform the importer. In this case, the term referred to in art. 72, para. 3 stops running. (8) An information file shall be drawn up for each bill, reflecting the process of discussing the draft in the National Assembly and shall be completed in a professional capacity until its acceptance or rejection. The Commission shall support the text for art. 71. The Commission shall support the text for art. 72. The Commission shall support the text for art. 73. The Commission shall support the text for art. 74. The Commission shall support the text for art. 75. Under art. 76 was proposed by MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 76: Art. 76. (1) The bills shall be adopted in two votes, which shall be held in different meetings. (2) The National Assembly may decide, exceptionally, that the two votes be held in one sitting. This provision shall apply only if no proposals for amendment or supplement of the bill have been made during the discussion. (3) At the first vote, the bill shall be dealt with after the National Assembly has heard the report of the committee responsible, the reports of other committees to which it has been assigned, if any, and the opinion of the importer within 10 minutes. Reports of other committees may also be presented in summary. When the bill is submitted by the Council of Ministers, it shall be submitted by a member of the Council of Ministers. (4) In the first vote, the bill shall be discussed in general and in full. The Members of the National Assembly shall rule on the main provisions of the bill. The Commission shall support the text for art. 77 The Commission shall support the text for art. 78.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u56	That's it. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of Chapter Eight by members of 70 "78" on the Commission report. They voted 147 MPs: 140, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u57	Under art. 79 a proposal has been made by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 79, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A sentence second is amended as follows:. Proposals that go beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote shall not be considered and voted on in substance. 2. A new sentence third is being created: the applicant shall pronounce inadmissible by decision and the reasons for this shall be entered in the report under para. 6................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 79: Art. 79. (1) Members of the National Assembly may make written proposals for amendments and additions to the bill adopted at the first vote or the joint bill under art. 77, para. 2 within 7 days of its adoption, respectively from its notification to the Members of the National Assembly who argue. The proposals shall be made in the order of art. 70, para. 1, t. 1. Proposals which are contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote shall not be considered and voted if the committee adopts a decision on this by a majority of the members present. The proposals shall be made through the President of the National Assembly to the Chair of the Committee responsible and shall be entered in a public register of the National Assembly. By way of exception, the National Assembly may decide that this period shall be extended by a maximum of three weeks or reduced but not less than three days. (2) The proposals under para. 1 shall not apply to legislation other than those proposed by the proposed amendment or supplement by the submitted bill, with the exception of those relating to editorial or legal and technical amendments. In this case, the proposal must be adopted by a majority of the members present in the committee. (3) When submitting proposals under para. 1 in the case of bills relating to the introduction of requirements of European Union law or to a procedure initiated for non-compliance with obligations arising from European Union law, the Members of the National Assembly shall state the reasons for the adoption, objectives and expected results and shall apply an analysis of compliance with European Union law. On the proposals, the chairman of the committee responsible requires an opinion from the Council of Ministers or the relevant minister. Article 73, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 74 shall apply accordingly. (4) The draft report for the second vote shall be published on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly within one day after the expiry of the term under para. 1. (5) On the proposals submitted by MPs, the chairman of the committee responsible shall request an opinion from the Council of Ministers or from the relevant minister. Article 73, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 74 shall apply accordingly. (6) Within 14 days of the adoption of the bill by the committee responsible, it shall submit to the National Assembly a report containing: 1. made within the term under para. 1 written proposals of Members of the Parliament and the opinion of the Committee on them; 2. the proposals of the Committee on the Draft Discussions, including when it adopts such proposals on the occasion of some of its members' proposals made during the meetings; the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly, with the exception of those relating to editorial or legal and technical amendments, shall argue. (7) The report under para. 6 shall be published immediately on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u58	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u59	Thank you, Madam President. My speech is based on the version of the Commission for the text of art. 79, para. 1. I see that there has been a proposal in the Commission's version that MPs can also make proposals that contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote if the Commission adopts a decision on this by a majority of the Commissioners present. In my opinion, this, first of all, differs sharply from the application which you, Madam President, gave at the beginning of the 46th National Assembly for a much more meaningful and legal debate on the bills, for deeper legislation. I believe that you must uphold these principles and all of us. Many have said that for a long time there have been vicious practices for the submission of different scope and order of proposals that have contradicted the laws adopted at the first vote. We are currently observing a proposal that confirms old, in your words, extremely vicious practices. In practice, you propose that if the majority of Members of the National Assembly in the Commission decides to adopt a text contrary to the text adopted at first vote, it may become part of a bill, although it has nothing to do with it. I therefore believe that it is more rigorous to support Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal for proposals that contradict or go beyond the scope of the bill adopted at first reading. Otherwise, I say again, through texts that allow the Commission in its majority to take a decision, any proposal may enter into force, including such precedents, through changes in the Law on Roads or Roads, laws that have often changed, to make changes, including tax laws. If we follow the principle that we will work much more hard in legislative terms, then it follows, Madam President, the text: if the Commission adopts a decision on this by a majority of the Commissioners present, I will drop out and make such an editorial proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u60	Okay, Mrs. Atanasova. Can I say something? Should I go downstairs? [[Heckling]] Then I'll replicate from here. Mr. Vigenin, we have six vice-presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u61	You have the floor, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u62	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova, yes, we need to start working in a completely different way. Yeah, we say that, we say that, and we're gonna do it, and I guarantee you that. The offer we've made is because someone has to make an assessment. You yourself were in committee when a law entered and there are such proposals who will make the assessment of the collaborators, the President sole? He'll say they're out of range, and he won't put them to the vote and put them to the stand. That is why you know that always, including in this House, including the committees, has taken the approach for the Commission to decide and to take the decision. Unfortunately, however, so far there has been a declining quorum, and this can happen with several votes. At the moment there is no more declining quorum, the meetings are online. That is, in order for you to have a meeting, you have to have more than half of the members of the committee present at 21, that is 11 and you are always looking for half of these. There is no way to get what has been going on so far with two or three votes passing such laws, even more so given the configuration until recently, such laws have not even been put to the vote, they just looked at each other always. With regard to Cornelia Ninova's proposal, I believe that it gives much greater freedom because it says: only proposals that go beyond the scope. What if they go beyond principle? The principle of second reading with one proposal may be fundamentally inverted. Does this mean that then the concept, if it is reversed in committee, we have to accept it, and that, you know, has happened very often? So I do not agree that we should limit ourselves only in the scope and in the articles of the proposals and texts tabled, and we should seek the essence, principle, concept and it should also be respected. We replaced the two thirds with more than half of those present because of the constitutional text and because the acts of the National Assembly are taken by a simple majority, except when the Constitution itself decrees otherwise. And that is why we have decided, because when this text comes in, we are all aware that the Commission's sanction is not final. The committees are a supporting body of the National Assembly, and the authority that decides and takes decisions is the plenary, that is, whatever the committee decides, then. What we have commented with our fellow Members is that in the report below, it will be noted that such a proposal has been made, by what majority has been taken, so that the plenary can then put to the vote, vote, and, you know, if the Chamber decides that it is not outside the scope, this should be seen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u63	Time, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u64	We've commented, we've said all these things, and that's why it's suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u65	Thank you. Is there another line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. We've worked together for a long time in various committees. I have a memory that you have repeatedly insisted on respecting the Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly when one of the MPs makes proposals................................................................................... 83 out of range. That is why the text, which in the current Rules of Procedure and before that, of art. 83, seemed to be a constant quantity. Never, in my own memories, correct me if I am wrong, even outside the procedure, there has been no time when proposals that contradict the principles, scope and motives of the bill adopted at first vote should not be contested that they should be admitted. On the contrary, you, as director of the Directorate, have repeatedly paid attention to this, including shorthands, but things have changed. I appeal to my fellow Members in plenary, if we really want to limit this practice, to do so by supporting my fellow Members, my proposal for editorial change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Since we were a little out of the procedure, I will tell you that yes, I have done and paid attention, but believe me, more than 70% of the cases have not been voted, but are considered, although they are outside the principles and scope. So let's be honest, because I can pull all these shorthands out of the Chamber. But with the quorum dropping, with this requirement, in fact, for a majority and for the vote, we say that there should always be a vote and that a majority should be sought. By dropping out, there will simply be a text that, as a consequence, may not be applied and who will judge it? I'm telling you again, who will judge the chairman of the committee? Then it'll get scarier and more dangerous, believe me. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines:) You have no right!]] I have no right, but Mr. Vigenin asked me to. I'll go downstairs, it's even better for me. Because normally, until the end of the debate, I shouldn't be here. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u68	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President, Mr President! Very often and I hope more and more often in this House there will be talk of judicial reform, rule of law and others. Unfortunately, when we say the law's power was left in the background of how the law is done, how the law is done. In the Forty-fourth National Assembly and in the Forty-Fiveth for a while we had this debate. It has also been reflected, unfortunately, in the monitoring mechanism of the European Union, in the reports of the many monitorings in Bulgaria that there are. And one of the reasons for this is that a practice was required to avoid any publicity in the discussion and even the constitutional requirement for two readings of a law. This practice we have challenged many times, including before the Constitutional Court on other occasions. The Constitutional Court refused to rule on whether the proposal at second reading falls within the scope as required and does not, in fact, represent by its basic law adopted at one reading. And although the Constitutional Court's practice has evolved, as far as more and more special opinions are being obtained, I think it is understandable that the Constitutional Court is still cautious in opposing the will of the majority of the National Assembly, as it is directly elected and since it ultimately decides. What should be done, and why do I think that ultimately goes in the right direction, although there are some disputes about the very essence of the text? Guarantees must be given that both prevent outright abuse and do not stop the MPs in their freedom of legislative initiative. Therefore, clear procedures are required. This procedure requires that, where such a text on its eligibility is proposed in committee, the Commission rule. Once the committee has spoken and no matter what it has decided, this must be reflected in the report in order for the debate in certain cases to continue in plenary. That is why we have proposed a clearer mechanism that steps on the concept of acceptance is well known to the lawyers in this House. When there is a dispute, you have tabled a proposal between first and second readings, your right is as a Member of the National Assembly, any other Member of the Commission may raise the question of its eligibility and the Commission may rule. Where inadmissible, it shall not be discussed in substance. Why did we consider that this should concern only the scope of the subject matter and not the principle of the bill? After all, the principle of the bill, although once passed at first reading, can be challenged until the final adoption of the law, including with a proposal. What cannot be done is to correct another law or in this law to correct a part that was not at all the subject of the first. That is why we have proposed a clearer text to us, and I thank you for paying attention to it. At the same time, we also believe that the text proposed in the final version meets this idea and will do the same thing. It will only be done, and if committee chairmen have the courage to take advantage of these rules and the majority that are formed do not succumb to the weakness to use their majority. This cannot, unfortunately, be governed by the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. This is already a matter of self-awareness, of how we understand our work, but I believe that this text can also be supported in the version presented to the committee, and it is a step in the right direction. He himself will not solve the problem, but gives another guarantee, which I hope will prevent with the Bees Act from changing the Penal Code, or another law from correcting the private demands of someone rich and influential. However, everything remains in our hands, and I very much hope that this debate, which is now under way, will grow into a real change of practice, not just a change of lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. For a line, Mrs. Miteva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u70	Thank you to Mr. Zarkov. We're thinking in the same direction, I think, with the other MPs. Mrs. Atanasova, I forgot to reply a moment ago that, in fact, regarding the Transitional and Final Orders, this is settled in para. 2, that is, there is no way this is happening anymore. That is, even if you make editorial or legal and technical amendments, you must have a committee decision and I think that is the fair approach. So that what was being observed until recently doesn't happen anymore. Regarding what Mr. Zarkov said, I absolutely agree with him. There are many mechanisms and texts in the Rules that are trying to create a guarantee for better legislation, including a follow-up impact assessment, including the return of laws by the President of the National Assembly, including by committees. As I said yesterday, it is very important that what are the individuals who will be in charge of these committees, it is very important that there really are some strong chairmen of the committees so that these chairmen can start working as the committees work. I hope to apply the Rules of Procedure strictly yes, even with the risk of returning laws, including to the Council of Ministers, in order to learn how to apply the Law on Laws and the Decree on its implementation, including the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Are there any other lines for Mr. Zarkov? I can't see. Do you want a hole? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. Then we move on to the vote. I first put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 159 MPs: 84, against 61, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u72	Mr. Chairman, I'm making a procedural proposal to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u73	Please re-vote! Vote 169 MPs: for 85, against 69, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. To ask Mrs. Atanasova: her proposal under para. 1... [[Noise and lines.]] It can't be anymore, it's gone... [[Noise and lines.]] Take it easy, guys! Mrs. Atanasova withdraws the offer. To tell you the truth, I'm having a little trouble figuring out what to put to the vote on the Commission's proposals. Article 79 with the correction made with the previous vote. This is the Commission's proposal with the revision of Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs. Vote 172 MPs: for 172, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u74	Under art. 80 has a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 80: Art. 80. (1) The National Assembly shall discuss and vote on the draft laws of the second vote chapter by chapter, section by section or text by text. Where no written proposals or objections are made, the texts shall not be read in the plenary. In this case, the texts shall apply to the stenographic protocol as part of it. (2) In the second vote shall be discussed only proposals of Members of the National Assembly which have been received in accordance with art. 79 as well as proposals from the committee responsible, included in her report. Editorial or technical amendments are also eligible. Proposals which are contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote shall not be discussed and voted. (3) A Member of the National Assembly may justify proposals made within 5 minutes for each proposal. (4) The vote shall take place in accordance with art. 63. During the vote, no speeches, new proposals and procedural questions are allowed. Only the proposals of Members of the National Assembly, which have been adopted in accordance with Article 1, shall be voted on. 79, proposals by the committee responsible, editorial or legal and technical amendments made during the discussion, as well as proposals to reject or postpone a text. (5) When the rapporteur, when reporting the second vote bill in plenary, read a text with a content other than the proposal in the committee responsible's report, without making an editorial or legal amendment to the order envisaged, the text proposed in the committee's report shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I shall put to the vote art. 80 in the Commission's version. Vote 168 MPs: 168, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Did you guys see what we did? You accepted the Commission to be able outside the principles and to change conceptually the law, and when it enters the Chamber, you will say: it cannot be outside the principles. And then what are you going to do about the law? You're putting him back on the committee?! That's what actually worked out right now, like... [[Heckling]] Yeah, the text's been voted on, so we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u76	The Commission shall support the text for art. 81, 82 and 83. Under art. 84 there is a proposal from the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text and proposes the following editorials of art. 84: Art. 84. (1) A draft decision, declaration and address may be submitted by the Members of the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Groups. (2) The draft decisions, declarations and addresses shall be submitted in paper and electronic form or in the form of an electronic document signed with a qualified electronic signature, allowing subsequent editing of the content, and shall be registered immediately in a public register. (3) The draft decisions, declarations and addresses shall be distributed by the President of the National Assembly between the relevant Standing Committees within three days of their entry, of which he shall inform the Members of the National Assembly without delay. (4) The Standing Committees shall discuss the projects under para. 1 no later than 15 days from their distribution and submit their opinions on them to the President of the National Assembly. (5) Decisions, declarations and addresses shall be adopted in one vote. (6) A draft decision, declaration and address may be withdrawn by the importer until he has been put to the vote at a meeting of the National Assembly. The Commission shall support the text for art. 85. Under art. 86 there is a proposal of the MP Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 86: Art. 86. (1) Reports under art. 84, p. 16 and 17 of the Constitution contain a report on the activities of the law enforcement body during the relevant period, the problems and difficulties it encounters, including the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly in the discussion of the previous report. (2) Reports shall be submitted to the National Assembly by 31 March, unless another time limit is laid down by law. (3) Reports under art. 84, p. 16 and 17 of the Constitution shall be distributed by the President of the National Assembly to the relevant competent committee within three days of their entry, of which he shall inform the Members of the National Assembly without delay. (4) The Commission shall discuss the report under para. 1 no later than 15 days of its distribution and submit its opinion to the President of the National Assembly and propose a draft decision on the report. The draft decision may also contain recommendations to the body whose activity is being discussed. (5) The report under para. 1 shall be included on the National Assembly's agenda within one month of its submission to the National Assembly and shall be dealt with no later than three months. (6) The report under art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution shall be discussed after the National Assembly has heard the opinion of the committee and the statement of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, respectively the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Prosecutor General within 10 minutes. The discussion continues with the speeches of MPs, which may also contain questions to the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, respectively the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Prosecutor General, who is obliged to answer them. In the discussion of the report, the Members of the National Assembly may also raise questions received in writing from citizens, institutions and civil organisations in relation to the report to which the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, respectively the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Prosecutor General, shall answer. (7) The report under art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution shall be discussed after the National Assembly has heard the opinion of the committee and the presentation of the importer within 10 minutes. The discussion continues with the speeches of MPs, which may also contain questions to the importer who is obliged to answer them. (8) During the discussion of the report under para. 1 Members of the National Assembly may make proposals for amendments and additions to the draft decision proposed by the Commission. (9) The importer shall take account of the proposals and recommendations made. (10) The proposals of the Members of the National Assembly under para. 8 shall be voted in accordance with Article 8. 63. (11) A decision shall be adopted on the report. The National Assembly may accept or reject the report of the importer under art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution. When rejecting the report, the National Assembly motivates its decision. The Commission shall support the text for art. 87. Under art. 88 has a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 88: Art. 88. (1) The National Assembly may require the submission of a report by an authority under art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution and on individual matters of its activity on a proposal from a parliamentary group, of the relevant Standing Committee or of one tenth of the Members of the National Assembly. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The National Assembly shall determine the questions, the period to which the report relates and the period for its submission. (3) The discussion of the report under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 86..................................................................... The Commission shall support the text for art. 89. The Commission shall support the text for art. 90.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote members from 81 to 90 inclusive. They voted 164 MPs: for 164, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u78	"Chapter 9" Parliamentary Control. The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter Ninth. "Section I " Questions, Questions and Debates on Questions. " The Commission shall support the text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text for art. 91. Under art. 92 there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 92, para. 1 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 92: Art. 92. (1) The questions shall be addressed through the President of the National Assembly in writing at the latest 72 hours before the beginning of the meeting to which the ministers should answer. The questions must be precise and clearly formulated, contain no personal attacks and insulting qualifications and be signed by the National Representative. Where a Member of the National Assembly asks a question summarised by meetings and requests of civil organisations and citizens, this may be noted in the written question. The answer may be oral or written. The answer shall be written where the national representative has expressly expressed a written wish to do so when a question concerning personal rights or interests is raised or where the questions referred contain requests for detailed numerical data. The written response period is 7 days. A Member of the National Assembly having asked an oral question may request in writing a change of the type of response in writing by 18:00 of the day preceding parliamentary control. The time limit for the reply shall be 7 days from the date of the request for the change and shall not be postponed by the Minister. The questions and answers to them shall be submitted in paper form and in electronic form or in full electronic form, such as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures, shall be registered in a public register without delay, and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly in the section of the Parliamentary Control. (2) The President of the National Assembly shall immediately inform the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister of the questions received and of the day of the meeting to be answered. (3) When the people's representative who asked the question is absent from the meeting for respectable reasons, the answer shall be postponed. The absence for respectable reasons shall be certified by a letter from the Member of the National Assembly to the President of the National Assembly by 18:00 on the day preceding the parliamentary control. Where absence is more than three times, the Minister shall reply in writing within 7 days of the date of the last absence of the Member of the National Assembly. (4) Where a written answer to the question has been received, the President shall communicate it at the parliamentary control meeting. The date of publication of the written answer to the question on the website of the National Assembly in section "Parliamentary control" shall be considered as the date of receipt by the National Representative. (5) Members of the National Assembly may withdraw their questions in writing by 18:00 on the day preceding the parliamentary control. The President of the National Assembly shall inform the relevant Minister thereof. (6) Where the parliamentary groups during the parliamentary control meeting have benefited from their right under art. 48, para. 5, the time of the parliamentary control meeting shall be extended by the same amount. The Commission shall support the text for art. Art. 93 94.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u79	All right, let's get this over with, since there's an unsupported offer. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! We offer to your attention a change in the text proposed by the Temporary Commission. It is small at first glance, but you will understand that it is not so small two numbers are replaced. The Commission proposes 72 hours to have a deadline before asking the question, we propose 48. Let me tell you what this is about. When a MP wants to ask an up-to-date question to a minister, this could have happened until Wednesday morning. This opportunity is now proposed to be removed by Tuesday morning, that is to say, the rights of MPs are limited. We believe it is in the spirit that we all agree that parliamentaryism and parliament's leading role must be restored. I know what you're going to say, but any person can develop and look for improvement. Under the Constitution, Bulgaria is a republic with a parliamentary form of government and it would be better to have the people's representative ask an up-to-date question to a minister by Wednesday morning and not by Tuesday morning, even more so if it were for colleagues who are in their electoral regions, they would not be able to ask an up-to-date question or ask it next week when it will no longer be up-to-date. Our proposal is: to remain the opportunity of the MPs to bring an up-to-date issue to the ministers by Wednesday "9 pm, not by Tuesday "9 pm, one day behind, as proposed in the text. I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u81	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. For a line, Mrs. Miteva, or for a statement? For a line, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u82	Thank you. Mr. Glauchev, yes, the change is essential, but it is entirely in favor of the MPs. Because this change follows from the fact that, on my proposal, the possibility to postpone issues of an up-to-date nature has been removed, that is, you no longer have the opportunity that the ministers had until recently, and you know: you are asking an up-to-date question, it is putting off for next week. What is his actuality when he will respond in 14 days? Now what is being done is that there is no delay, that is, you ask it on Wednesday and he has to answer on Friday. We changed this hour after discussing it with our colleagues from "Parliamentary Control" because, you know, the administration has technological time. You submit it, processed it, passes through the President to go to the Minister and he knows that Friday already has that question. So we give him at least two days to prepare, as he is no longer entitled to postpone, as he was until next week. That's the point of actuality. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, I know it's not in favor of the Council of Ministers, but it is in favor of the MP and asking questions. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It's absolutely beneficial because you're asking it by Tuesday and Friday the same week they're responding to you. Do you understand? That's the idea of the text. That's why it was changed from 48 hours to 72 hours, because if it stays 48 hours, the minister practically, when you set it by Wednesday morning, will have understood it on Wednesday night. Mr. Donchev is here, he understands me, and Mrs. Sacheva is here. He will already have only one day on Thursday to prepare himself.. However, the minister must come prepared here. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u83	Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u84	Madam President, to explain that the people's representative has so far been able to bring up a question by Wednesday morning, and now to shorten his deadline and say that this is in favor of the people's representative, it is simply absurd. [[Noise and lines.]] I guess my colleagues know what this is about. I can explain that. So far, there has been an opportunity for the people's representative to bring in an up-to-date issue by Wednesday morning, and now he will be entitled to the previous day by Tuesday, and this is in your opinion for the benefit of the people's representative?! Another point is that it is now limited to the possibility of ministers delaying the issue. That's different, that is, you're limiting the minister's ability to postpone the matter, okay. I agree with that, but to say that the people's representative should bring the matter forward the day before and that this is in his favor is absurd. Perhaps I agree that this is in use of the administration, which cannot prepare its answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I really do not understand, since in Parliament, all the parliamentary groups have declared that the aim is to restore parliamentaryism, to strengthen control over the executive power, why, in general, the Commission, which has prepared the new Rules, has a proposal to limit the MPs and the parliamentary groups, including those that have already been adopted. Excuse me, for the first time such proposals are accepted, such as the procedures to enter the time of a parliamentary group. Of course it beats smaller parliamentary groups. These are proposals that have already passed through the Chamber. A proposal is now being made that anyone who has any view of how Parliament operates will realise that it will make it difficult for the MPs to do so. Monday is the day the MPs are in their constituencies. On Tuesday are the meetings of the parliamentary groups and Tuesday is the day when parliamentary issues are prepared. Moving the deadline from Wednesday morning to Tuesday morning means trying to create obstacles in asking questions about parliamentary control. The two things are not at all related to the possibility of delaying an answer and asking questions about when the question will be asked. It is a matter of good will and will, including the ministers to respond in a timely manner. I ask: how could the ministers of the office respond properly and properly, preparing only two days for parliamentary control? Excuse me, these explanations are like the devil and the gospel. After all, there are people here who have been one or two mandates in parliament. Please limit the innovations that are detrimental to parliamentary democracy, parliamentary debate and parliamentary control. If we're going to return parliamentaryism, let's do it for real, not here to throw naked declarations from the parliamentary tribune. This is my consistent position. In fact, the proposal not to postpone questions and questions in control was also made in the interim amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the 45th Parliament. It was then suggested by our parliamentary group, but it has not occurred to me that we will also limit the possibility of MPs having enough time to prepare their parliamentary questions. Please, just stop! There are people here who know what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Mrs. Miteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u88	Mrs. Manolova, you obviously don't understand me, and you obviously didn't read the Solutions Project. Because in art. 92 an opportunity has already been provided for you to be able to ask your questions and questions by electronic signature and by electronic means, i.e. you, when you are in your electoral area and if you wanted to work and write it, you can also submit it electronically, as this already gives you the opportunity of the Rules. Yeah, he's never been here before, but from now on, there's been an opportunity. I explained to you why it was done and the time was indeed postponed at the request of the Parliamentary Control, given the technological time for notification to the ministers. Here the main accent was not to postpone the questions. I think it was the right step for the minister to be able to answer that same Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Second line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I think that the work of the MPs should be in the interests of the voters and the Rules should be convenient for the voters, not for the MPs. That is, when we ask a question on Tuesday, our voters expect an answer on Friday. They don't expect me to stand on the stand and ask my question and not have an answer, but expect an answer on Friday, because the practice so far is always to be postponed, and you know it very well, here no one finds the hot water. It is clear that we will no longer work from Wednesday to Friday, but we will work seven days a week and 360 and how many days a year. So no one will in any way be limited to asking themselves the question on Tuesday, to receive the answer on Friday and the Bulgarian voters, our voters, to receive up-to-date answers to current questions. Otherwise you will have current questions with outstanding answers received in a week or two or three. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] No, I've read the lyrics very well, Mrs. Atanasova. Come, make a statement, let me make a line for you. The proposal made to propose issues on Tuesday is very appropriate and in the interests of voters rather than MPs. You're right. It's not in the interest of the MPs, but it's in the interests of the voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Third line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Manolova, you were not only entitled to one point in the argument that parliamentaryism would return. In this way, parliamentaryism will not return by limiting itself, I agree with you here, the opportunity of the MP to have more time to ask his question. Since there were replicating that the following provisions of the Rules would enable the submission of these issues with electronic signatures, I would like to point out that the Rules enter into force on the day of the vote and the promulgation, and the electronic signatures are not known when they will start functioning. If we have the opportunity to ask questions with electronic signatures, it does not matter which point of Bulgaria we are in, although Mr. Svilenski is traditionally a MP from Sofia and for him it is not a problem on Tuesday until 9.00 to register the question or question to the ministers. [[Noise and lines.]] One more thing. The opportunities given by the Rules to the Members of Parliament for the time to ask a parliamentary question, to emphasise that it has nothing to do with time and delaying the response by the ministers and the Prime Minister. Especially for you, Mr. Svilensky, I stress it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u93	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Mrs. Manolova, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u94	Of course, the deadline of 48 hours and 72 respectively will not stop us from asking our questions, but there is no connection, Mrs. Miteva, between the deadline within which the people's representative can ask the question and the time limit within which the minister will answer it. Once again, I set an example with the last parliamentary control. There was no minister, except those on leave who did not answer on Friday, although the questions were asked by Wednesday morning, that is, it is a good wish by the ministers at this time. Those ministers in the office demonstrated it were here, answered competently enough and responsiblely enough. In addition, if we are to talk about actuality in the dynamic situation in which the country is located, the extension of the deadline by one day between the moment of asking the question and the moment of giving the answer is to the detriment of the voters, Mr. Svilenski. It is not the same whether you will be able to ask for a topic and problem that arose on Tuesday by Wednesday morning or wait for next Monday. So my proposal to return the period within which the MPs are entitled to ask questions is in the interest of the Bulgarian voters, our voters, to have the shortest possible answer to their question and, if possible, a response to solve their problem. It is in the interest of the voters to stay 48 hours, and in the interest of the administration and of the ministers is the proposal, which makes the importer, the time limit to be 72 hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u95	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I had no intention of speaking on such a controversial issue, but I think we should look at it in its entirety, Mrs. Manolova. So, to be said by you and Mrs. Atanasova, that there is no connection not to delay the question of when it comes, does not answer the truth. What Mr. Svilenski said is an absolute truth that, on the one hand, parliament gives an opportunity to actually get an answer next week, but on the other hand, we are not playing a blitzkrieg of chess here. You know very well as an experienced parliamentarians that there are questions to which preparation for an answer, even though you quote twice the caretaker government, require more than 48 hours. There are many complex issues, many voluminous questions to which their answer to be thrown into the public space by the relevant principal will not be in the interest of the Bulgarian citizens. So I think that this proposal that has been made is the most balanced. They, the two proposals, are interrelated. I suggest that we do not continue this discussion as passionately as it is clear to everyone who really thinks that the deadline is shortening and objectivity is increasing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u97	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any lines? I won't. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u98	The point of parliamentary questions is not to ask questions, but to get an answer immediately, and in the true sense of parliamentary control you will see shortly from 12:00 p.m. When you ask a question, you get an answer. There's still a 48-hour window for the minister to prepare. We are talking about an up-to-date issue, not about developing a topic and a response to cabinet policies. In fact, this is the European practice. The idea is to ask an up-to-date question, you get an up-to-date answer to an up-to-date question within 48 hours, yes, and even if possible immediately. However, it is about ministers who should be aware of the topics for which they are responsible. So in a little while, we will be able to see if the ministers can answer current questions immediately, and in the current practice they still had the opportunity to prepare 48 hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u99	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. For the doppelganger, Professor Mihaylov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Manolova, many people have reminded here, while you are saying that you should distinguish between blitzcontrol and parliamentary matter. These are different things.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u101	Blitzkrieg.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u102	If you like the blitzkrieg. If you like it very much, some people like it very much. However, a very serious distinction must be made between blitzcontrol and a parliamentary issue. Sometimes parliamentary issues are extremely serious, thorough and require real preparation. So let us not mix these two things so that we can be useful in the discussion we are doing in the parliamentary room. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u103	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Any other speeches? For a statement, Mrs. Atanasova? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u104	Thank you, Mr President, rather a question to the importers or to the President of the Commission. Since so far the thesis has developed that in any case the issue cannot be delayed, I see that in art. 92, para. 1 there is a text which only concerns that the written question cannot be postponed. [[Reply from IHN.]] Well, I'm reading the text of the Commission. So, if there is a text somewhere else about this, it is rather a question to the President of the Commission. I see that the text is as follows: The time limit for the written answer is 7 days from the day of the request for change and cannot be postponed by the Minister. I'm sorry if somewhere else you recorded it, I don't see it, but there's a big difference between oral and written answers. In any case, the oral answer to all the questions asked is due unless the national representative has requested written but thus written the text, it concerns only the written answer. If I'm wrong, correct me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. [[Reply of MP Iva Miteva.]] For a line, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u106	I think Mrs. Atanasova made a statement and is not entitled to a second speech. I do not know what procedure it was.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u107	Well, it's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u108	If not, I apologize. Mrs. Atanasova, I think you've been a MP for at least 12 years. The text says that the answer is written when the people's representative has asked for it. This is not at all about delaying and turning the oral answer into written by the Minister, so this is not the hypothesis at all. The hypothesis was in an al. 3 of the current text and this is exhausted from the text, that is, the minister cannot delay for any reason or reason anymore. That's the text he's saying. [[Noise and lines.]] A al. 1 refers to the MP when he can postpone and what you have read is for the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u109	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u110	I'm not 100% sure it became clear, but are there any other speeches anyway? There are no more speeches. Who, as they understand it, is going to vote. [[Radio.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I propose that we vote in one vote: the name of the "Chapter 9" of the Parliamentary Control Board, of the "Division I," Questions, Questions and Debates on Questions and Questions" and art. 91, on which there were no offers. Please, vote procedure. Vote 180 MPs: 180, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under art. 92. Vote 184 MPs: 72 against 94, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We're going to vote on art. 92 in the version of the Commission. Vote 181 MPs: 120 against 35, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. We vote, I think, Art. 93 and 94, which were read, i.e. presented. I say we vote both sides together. Vote 181 MPs: for 181, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u111	I suggest that we extend the working time until the point is exhausted, because, you know, there is a blitzcontrol that is very important and is different from the other control, and it is nice to think about them. So I propose an extension of the working day until the point is complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u112	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the working time until the conclusion of point three and the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. Please, voting mode. Vote 184 MPs: 149, against 12, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Guys, do you want to take a break because at 12:00, we start the blitz control? [[Reply of MP Desislava Atanasova.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We must stop at 12:00 and then continue with the Rules of Procedure. So if you want, we'll take half an hour off, because then we can't do it under blitz control. [[Heckling]] Okay, break till 12:00. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u113	Colleagues, please take your seats. We begin the blitzcontrol towards the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers on the grounds of art. 107a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please activate BNT 2 and BNR cameras according to art. 51, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Blitzcontrol, I suppose you're all familiar with art. 107a, do I have to report it to you, or don't I? Colleagues, the Bliccontrol will be attended by the Deputy Prime Minister Stefan Yanev, the Deputy Minister of Economic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Galab Donev, the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Security and the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov, please invite Boyko Rashkov to come in, I do not see him, and the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for Management of European Funds Atanas Pekanov. We start by asking the first current questions. Do you have any questions for the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers? Is there such a people, or is there no question? I won't. As I can see, there is no desire to question the members of the Council of Ministers. From GERB-SDS? Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Minister! In the last few days we have seen a drastic increase in the price of electricity traded on the Bulgarian independent electricity exchange. During yesterday the average price of electricity reached 340 BGN. at megawatt hour, and in the afternoon this price reached 500 leva. Such a price the Bulgarian independent electricity exchange does not remember since its creation to date. This situation with these disastrous for the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian industry prices also caused the logical reaction of the Bulgarian business, which said that the suspension of certain productions, of certain factories and entire businesses begins gradually, and people will be on unpaid leave accordingly. All this, Prime Minister, is extremely disturbing. This is a situation that puts the Bulgarian industry and in particular the energy intensive industry of Bulgaria in a pathetic situation. The Ministry of Energy, as the Bulgarian employers noted, is helpless in this situation, it simply demonstrates that the energy is currently on autopilot. There are no people there, and the management of the Ministry of Energy wonders how and in what way to release the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which is legally elected, who to scratch, who to appoint, but does not do what is there. This, of course, caused the Bulgarian business to address you, Mr. Prime Minister, with a request to intervene and find a working solution. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what specific measures have you taken at this time to get out of this situation or what measures do you intend to take from this point on and will you satisfy the request of the Bulgarian business, the energy intensive industry, more precisely, to help financially, but to be supported not as the government understands with loans, but to be helped in a way that will really enable the air of the energy intensive industry, and through a grant of financial assistance? And another sub-question that relates to whether you have already notified the Commission of energy and water regulation, which is a competent authority and has the right to carry out an inspection when it comes to this type of possible auction manipulations on the Bulgarian independent electricity exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u115	I have just been informed that Minister Rashkov is on his way to the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Janev. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u116	Madam Chairman, Mrs. Petkova! Let's start this way. The question is complicated and complex enough, probably three minutes will not be enough for me, so I will start the answer backwards and what measures have been taken. Yes, the price of yesterday's average was about 330 BGN. Currently, the average price is about 250 BGN. The Bulgarian business has reason to ask such questions, especially those dealing with energy-intensive production. What did the caretaker government do? About three weeks ago, an order was issued by the Minister of Energy to join the energy system Maritsa East 2 There's a willingness to work more, but let's open the clamp here and say that starting and shutting down a reactor, which is in a thermal power plant, is a process that takes time. It's not as easy as a hydroelectric power plant, which literally at the fifth minute is ready to provide electricity in the system. In relation to what the Ministry of Energy did, in addition to issuing the order for a gigawatt, which this same business with energy-intensive industries criticised that this was hidden State aid, he is now pleased that Maritsa is working because it is the work of these reactors, of the maritsa, which led to a lower current. Let's say something else. We are in a common energy market, which is open and works on market rules, not manipulations in the Bulgarian Energy Exchange, but supply and demand throughout Europe is the factor that raises prices. We can talk about the Exchange further and further about the fact that it is not open to other exchanges, which makes it monopolistic to some extent and not purely market principles. But back to the Maritsa East 2nd. In addition to the order, the management of the plant has already understood and worked actively to search for markets and to seek long-term contracts, because the peaks in the prices that are received are obtained precisely on the basis that short-term contracts are preferred to take place day-to-day contracts. If the contracts are long-term, the picture is different. If the plant had contracts at current prices, it could work peacefully by the end of the year without receiving State aid and satisfying the energy system. The question is complicated, the question is not from yesterday and will not receive a solution within two days. Energy problems have been at least 10 years, they are very complex and complex. I don't think that within three minutes we will be able to say them all and be thorough, but from the point of view of the caretaker government, we are doing what is possible and it seems to me that the situation is currently under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u117	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Mrs. Petkova, you're entitled to a line. [[Noise and lines.]] The Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to a reply to the Prime Minister. 107a. So, if you want me to tell you how it is going: we ask one question from each parliamentary group, two minutes from the MP to the Prime Minister elected by him, respectively, Deputy Prime Minister, then the respective Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister for a response of three minutes, then the word of the National Representative for a reply within two minutes and then again the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister shall have the right to a duplicate in two minutes. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, you are right in one point that the problems are really very serious in the energy sector, and this is what we have been repeating for the past six years, and we are constantly looking for a broad consensus. As a matter of fact, on the very important topics we have managed to achieve such a consensus here in the Bulgarian Parliament. First of all, I'm gonna take one technical wink at you, and there's no reactors in the power plant. It's just a purely technical note. TPP Maritsa East 2 is a company that is extremely important for the Bulgarian electricity system. Indeed it is, so to speak, one of the guarantors of the country's energy security, as this plant has specific parameters of work that make it quite different from the other thermal power plants, and you're really right that it should work. But from your answer I was not able to understand exactly what you have done in connection with the letter of the Bulgarian business to you, because the Bulgarian business, and we believe that the management of the Ministry of Energy is currently in a state of weightlessness. It does not respond adequately to the situation, and that is why the business is addressed to you. My question was: what exactly are your actions, what have you taken, or what do you intend to take to get out of this pathetic situation? Otherwise, the Bulgarian business, the Bulgarian energy intensive industry, is doomed to doom. It becomes uncompetitive on the international markets and we say whatever we do, whatever plans for development and sustainability to cook, they do not make any sense if we kill the Bulgarian industry in this way. Therefore, my specific question was: what have you done and what do you intend to do and will you fulfill the Bulgarian business's request to support the financial energy intensive industry so that they can take a breath? But to help them, not through a loan, but through a grant of funding, as the business expects. And for the KEWRC, I could not find out whether you informed the Commission about energy and water regulation, because in such a situation, I have already mentioned, this is an unprecedented increase in the price of energy. Such prices we never had! Therefore, if you have not done what is necessary to inform KEWRC, my recommendation to you is to inform KEWRC, let them check for possible market manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Here you go, Mr. Yanev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Petkova, honourable MPs! To be more specific, the Ministry of Energy is not weightless. The Ministry of Energy is managing this mini-price crisis on Sunday. On Sunday, the order was issued to include the second turbine you are entitled, not a reactor, the second block and the order was issued on Monday. [[(reply: second block (reply: second block))]] In fact, no written order has been issued, but it has been spoken to the management of the plant to include a third energy block. So the situation is not weightless, the situation is managed precisely on the basis of trend monitoring and in the European price market. If we want to open the clamp further, the European price market is severely destabilized, once because of the natural situations at the moment, and the second time, typical for many years because of Germany's electric debalance, which is a great consumer, its industry is the largest. Regarding the Bulgarian industry. I told you, their behavior is a little different. We need to consider exactly what we can do. I agree that the Bulgarian business should be helped. I couldn't agree more! The way of the aid is whether it will be through loans or other aid is a matter of discussion. There is probably a place here for parliament to decide how to make this assistance for the Bulgarian business based on existing practices, including in Europe, certain, as you said, energy-intensive industries and in Europe are coming from the countries concerned. This practice can also be with us, of course, under strict control and compliance with both European regulations and Bulgarian legislation. In this round of thought I would also like to add the following that the Energy Act itself needs, so to speak, a careful reading of certain performances and perhaps repair, but this is the work of the National Assembly again. At this stage, I do not commit myself to concrete proposals which texts and how they could be touched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u121	Thank you, Prime Minister Yanev. We are moving on to the questions from BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u122	Mr. Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would say that yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, you saved the situation with the direct intervention of the Ministry of Energy, because indeed the prices were quite, quite high over 60% were higher than the European ones, and the refusal of action by the Bulgarian Energy Holding is inexplicable. The Bulgarian energy holding company says the following: "BECH cannot interfere with the market behaviour of its companies, as it will damage their operational autonomy. "................................................... the company's market behaviour of its companies, as it will damage its operational independence.............................. All energy producers here and the former ministers know, and people who know in energy that this is not the work of the Energy Holding, and it is, but BEH has the right to intervene when it comes to the operational work of each company, and how it will be organised, and how there will be a significant change in the activity of this company. And this was the work of the Energy Holding, which, in my opinion, yesterday tried to sabotage its non-interference precisely the energy market. Because, colleagues, it is not normal, it is not normal for us to want to support TPP 2 and at the same time, when it can come out of profit, to have only two units involved, one for the free market, the other for the regulated market. There should be six more blocks and no one should include them, and the Minister of Energy and the Prime Minister must intervene so that this company can re-enter its units! What are we talking about here?! This is where I think we're talking about missed benefits. And here we can now talk about whether this thing is deliberately being made to keep the price high and what are the missed benefits for TPP 2? From now on, it is my question to you, Prime Minister, do you really intend to check why and how the Bulgarian Energy Holding refused to intervene because he said: we have no right, this declaration is public. Eventually we really need to take some steps to change if we need to, of course, and here in the legislation, but ultimately these are missed benefits. When there are lost benefits, there is a distortion in the market. I mean, did TPP 2 act on the market? He wasn't acting in the market. Then we can talk about some manipulation, then we can talk about acting for someone else.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u123	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u124	I mean, my questions to you, Mr. Prime Minister, are: it's really good that you got involved, but from now on, what actions are you going to take, so that there might not be any similar distortions in the market after you? 'Cause I'm only opening one more clamp. Our capacity to Greece for exports is filled, our capacity is filled, only to the other European countries we cannot join to use cheap electricity, for example from Germany, because we do not have that capacity. And here we really need to think very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u125	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u126	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Stoynev, perhaps I should start the answer backwards with what you said, in fact I mentioned it in my previous reply that the Energy Act probably needs serious reading and opportunities to look for solutions on how to improve the very regulatory relations in energy. In terms of BEH. With the management of BEH and the management of the Ministry of Energy, we held several meetings on the occasion of precisely these issues with prices, with the raising of market and stock indices. From these talks whether they have reason from the Energy Holding to say that they do not manage their companies, I am not very sure, but so sounded to me.. rather as an attitude in a strict hierarchy, in almost collegial relations that could ask a company to do something and the company, if it decides that it is appropriate for it, will do so or will not do so. For this reason, the relations between the... in this case, as we are talking about the Maritsa East 2 and how many blocks to work, or not to work, pass through the Ministry of Economy precisely to make it clear that there is a connection and things that can be done in one direction or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u127	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have a word for a line. You don't want a line. We are continuing with the next group by the Democratic Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u128	Honourable President, honourable Members, Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! In recent days, one of the biggest challenges facing our country is forest fires. Unfortunately, they are already taking victims, destroying Bulgarian nature. For many years, the topic of providing airplanes and helicopters has been commented to ensure fire extinguishing during the summer. Unfortunately, in the last 12 years, however, nothing has been done in this direction, and despite the many ideas Bulgaria currently has one of the weakest opportunities for forest fires. We use old helicopters, old techniques to do this. We don't have a single plane that can extinguish fires, even though we have a lot of opportunities because of the availability of a lot of ponds, a lot of opportunities where these planes can get water to extinguish. In this regard, Prime Minister, my question to you is: apart from the extraordinary measures that the government has taken with regard to forest fires, does the caretaker government intend to take measures to ensure that this does not happen again next year and that we do not have such a severe crisis in terms of forest fires, that is to say, to launch an order or to launch a process in which we start working on having fire helicopters as well as airplanes? I think a year is enough time and the government can do what these people here in the middle of 12 years couldn't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u130	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mirchev, your question is very adequate and very timely, not only in connection with brawling fires at the moment, but in general with building the capacity of the state to resolve issues that are in the interests of its citizens. The caretaker government has taken one step in this situation, but it is half a step. Specially by means of fire extinguishing, I'll tell you what the half-foot is. The half-foot is that in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan we set up a project for medical helicopters, which is good, it is well perceived, God willing, to happen quickly, because such a need we have and it is urgent. In the wider round of the theme, we came to the conclusion that it would not be bad and it would be good to make a comprehensive state structure in the form of a state agency in which there are not only medical helicopters but also helicopters for fire-fighting, emergency situations and other aircraft. However, we have realized that our period of action and the time we have at our disposal is not enough to justify such a complete project in all its essence, and for this reason we have limited ourselves only to medical helicopters. Yeah, you're right. At the moment, unfortunately, we have a helicopter that works, from the Air Force, from Tuesday there will be another one available and probably up to ten days and a third, but that is our capacity at the moment. If things turn and become more worrying, we will have to ask for help from another country with flight equipment, because ours is insufficient and we rely on our firefighters on the ground, of course, from the composition of the Ministry of Interior. So, in a nutshell, the helicopter issue and its full development in terms of capacity for both search and rescue and fire-fighting and medical helicopters, which are specialised, can be collected into a state agency that can manage them in general, maintain and manage them accordingly, but this is a long process. I hope the next government has time and horizon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u131	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Mr. Mirchev, for a line? You don't want to. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u132	Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today the work of the National Assembly began with a minute of silence in memory of the fallen forest workers in the fire. I use the stands to express my condolences to the families of the victims and the victims. There was a reaction of the government we saw, there was a complete mobilization of the institutions to deal with the fires. The cause of my question to you, Prime Minister, is linked to the fire CIVID-19 due to the coming fourth wave of enormous force. According to the latest information on the Single Information Portal, more than 400 new cases have been registered today in more than 20 thousand tests, which is more than 2% positive samples. Of course, there are, unfortunately, dead people, in hospitals nearly 1,000 people, in intensive wards about 90 people. For the whole country, of course, there is a complete immunization plan of nearly a million and several people. In the area from which I am elected, there are 12 thousand people with completed immunization plan of nearly 130 thousand cities. So all the data indicates that nearly 80% of people across the country will encounter the fourth wave, but they will not be vaccinated. The Ministry of Health recommended that Bulgarian citizens refrain from unjustified travel abroad. I wonder if these are the measures of the caretaker government against an incoming pandemic wave? Of course, we have information that a drug has been found.. it is said that there is an open medicine against COVID-19, and several countries of the European Union participate in the order to buy this quantity, but Bulgaria is not among them because it has missed the deadline for participation in the competition and previously in the documentation for the Framework Agreement Bulgaria does not appear. For this reason, Mr. Prime Minister, is there a crisis headquarters in the country being established; is it making adequate decisions regarding the coming fourth wave of COVID-19; is there an action plan; what is the readiness of hospitals with hospital beds, oxygen masks, medicines; is the most important explanatory campaign, information campaign on the need for vaccination, voluntary vaccination of the population...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u134	...and why did the government in general sleep through such an important thing related to the Framework Agreement on this drug? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u135	Thank you. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The crisis and the spread of the virus really do have reason to bother us. We are already talking about a Delta variant that almost everywhere in the research appears and which suggests that these figures, which you are also quoting, that daily increases the number of infected and therefore the percentage of the number of tests done, are confirmed and are saying that we are really walking towards maybe another wave. In this regard, what does the caretaker government do? I think it's widely known at the moment. Yeah, about the vaccination, let's say a few words first. Vaccines are available for everyone, but as before and now so-called motivational campaigns do not produce a greater result than what we see on a daily basis that are between 12 and 20 thousand. people who are vaccinated. Yes, the fully vaccinated are more than 1 million already, which is probably Bulgaria in the European Union in the last place on vaccination. Specifically for your region, I cannot answer you because I have no data on why it is so slow and the percentage is relatively low. Speaking of vaccination, we should also take into account the actual statistics on how many people have experienced and have antibodies and are therefore not motivated to receive vaccination, which the Ministry of Health is trying to collect and do this analysis. With regard to the preparation for the future wave and the preparation for the resolution of a future serious health crisis. The Ministry of Health has prepared a detailed plan, which includes all aspects of such a crisis, i.e. preparing to increase the readiness of hospitals to undertake more patients, the readiness to implement additional measures at the moment, the willingness to have medicines used in these types of therapies. In this regard, it may be necessary to say that the leadership of the Ministry of Health and Deputy Prime Ministers is being invited to the President's office tomorrow. This is the plan and its way of development in the adverse development of the crisis. On several occasions, Minister Katsarov, the Minister of Health, had the opportunity to show the main aspects, the main wishes of this plan, namely: readiness, growth, specialization, if you will, of separate wards or of individual hospitals if necessary and everything else. Regarding the drug that you are quoting, there are many medicines that are in such a way as to say a study period, which is already being proposed at European Commission level, at the level of the European Medicines Agency, that they can enter into treatment mode. I don't know what kind of medicine you're talking about, but I'm not sure this has been discussed within the caretaker government. So if you want the specifics on this question, ask it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u137	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u138	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! I understand that there is a plan drawn up, but in my opinion, personally and our parliamentary group, it is very important that we find that motivational and information campaign that will make a large part of the Bulgarian society vaccinated because it is very important for us the health of the nation. The school year is about to begin, Prime Minister. A number of studies show that online training itself is not so good for health, respectively, on the mental health of our children. The remote learning itself led to a lack of knowledge in some students and a lack of learning habits in the smaller ones. We're concerned in that direction. I would give a council.. do not take it as a reproach, of course....... if a government applies and uses all the opportunities for the health of the nation, use the expert potential of MPs from all parliamentary groups, of the parliamentary groups themselves, because the health of the nation, the health of the Bulgarian society is a priority of the priorities of each Bulgarian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u139	Thank you. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u140	Thank you for the question and clarification, Mr. Ibryamov. I really agree that the campaign must be comprehensive and cooperative with both government participation and MP participation, and by all means, because the health of the nation is at the heart of all kinds of successes or failures that we will have in the future. I also agree with your note on education and that online learning and the lack of social contact between children and students is not a good testimonial for their future development as harmonious personalities. I agree! But so far, what has been done as an information campaign, as a motivational campaign, has apparently given the results as they are now. We have also tried to think through the so-called incentives given in other countries. Since we are talking at the same time about the health of the nation and about the development and support of the Bulgarian business, the complex balance of the measures we are taking today by the Ministry of Health is between the bans on entering the country, i.e. under what conditions, which people can enter the country, which directly reflects on the tourism industry and at the same time the care for the Bulgarian citizens, so that no further infection can be imported. In this respect, we were thinking of motivational support for the campaign to prepare measures that, to say, offer some kind of vouchers for those who are vaccinated to be used in the Bulgarian business, in general speaking in the tourism industry. But given the fact that the caretaker government is having a hard time handling the budget and it is somewhat impossible to say that there are enough reservations for this type of move, so I can probably leave it as a proposal to consider it the parliament and in a decision to correct the State Budget Act to consider such a feather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u141	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u142	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister, gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Galab Donev and is linked to the dozens of fires that have been raging in our country in recent days. In practice are burned houses, economic buildings, property, public buildings in dozens of settlements, especially the situation in Blagoevgrad, in Kyustendilsko, in Pernishko, in Plovdiv, in Sofia. Hundreds of Bulgarian households and Bulgarian citizens have suffered and suffered, and, of course, the loss of the families of the two forest workers from Petrich and Kresna in Blagoevgrad is most unforgivable. My condolences to their families! But my question to you, Mr. Donev, is about the measures that the state, which the government will take to support the families in distress, to those who have lost house, property, business buildings; to the settlements where schools and other public buildings have burned down: are you and in what order in the medium and longer term you will take action to support both the specific families and the settlements? My question also applies to the Agency for Social Assistance, which is under your direct supervision, and to the Commission for Disasters and Accidents, which also has the opportunity to take action to support the affected citizens and their families.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u143	Thank you. Mr. Donev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u144	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, allow me to join with my condolences to the relatives of the fallen forest workers Anton Grubchev and Valeri Petrov, respectively, from Petrich and Kresna! Your question has several directions of answer: firstly, to the relatives of the fallen forest workers. They have the right to receive one-off financial assistance under the Social Security Code of BGN 540. and this aid can be obtained by the wives of the fallen forest workers, their children, whether they are of age or are of minor age respectively. Underage children shall also be entitled to a survivor's pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) The parents of the fallen forest workers can also receive this one-time assistance of 540 BGN, and the relevant social services in Blagoevgrad are also prepared to provide social support to the families of the fallen forest workers so that they can submit the relevant documents to receive this one-time assistance under the Social Security Code. The other thing that the state can take and take it: actions have already been ordered by the relevant "Social assistance" in the settlements, where the property is affected are the property of many Bulgarian citizens in Blagoevgrad, in Kyustendilsko, in Sofia, in Plovdiv. There is a readiness, staff from the relevant "Social assistance" are appointed to take part in the committees, which will make a view of the damage and a corresponding assessment of the damage caused to the property of the victims. In addition, according to the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Social Assistance, victims, families can receive one-off social assistance of 375 BGN, which is for accidental needs and needs of food and basic property to satisfy these vital needs they have. The Council of Ministers is also prepared and we are therefore working towards calling the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers in order to direct funds, additional transfer from the state budget to municipalities where there are damaged properties, burned houses, economic buildings. Here I would like to point out that such assistance can be relied on by all those with affected basic housing, which have the relevant building permits and so on, not to go into details. All declarations that need to fill out the persons affected by the fires are available and the social services are therefore ready to support the Bulgarian citizens in order to receive this social support under the Social Assistance Act. Next week, the Council of Ministers will adopt the appropriate decision to make this transfer of additional costs to cover the damage to the property of the affected Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u145	Thank you, Mr. Donev. Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u146	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we understand ourselves that the support that is regulated and which is expected to provide both the Agency for Social Assistance and the Commission for Disasters and Accidents is extremely insufficient. Unfortunately, the insurance culture of Bulgarian citizens for their insurance is also quite insufficient to talk about fair and full compensation for the damage that thousands of Bulgarian households have actually suffered. We are also talking about public buildings in settlements that are also completely destroyed. We have witnessed over several mandates how money was distributed from the window of the SUV and the Council of Ministers with its own decisions and decrees decided to spend hundreds of millions, billions of levs for everything, to provide funds to convenient companies, municipalities, sectors depending on the friendships of the previous prime minister. Now, from the parliamentary tribune, we call on the Council of Ministers at its meeting to allocate sufficient funds to compensate both the victims of Bulgarian households and the settlements where public infrastructure has been devastated and damaged. And we're from Stand up BG! We will also address colleagues from other parliamentary groups to start a national campaign in which funds and other support will be raised so that the victims of forest fires and families and settlements can be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you go, Mr. Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, indeed, that when it comes to a disaster that has befallen Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their number, when their property is affected, their home, this raises a very serious question: how and how can the state help those Bulgarian citizens who are in need? That is why I said that with the decision the Council of Ministers is about to take, these funds will be directed to municipalities, respectively for social support through social programs, so that the Bulgarian citizens affected can be further supported. However, such funds should also be directed towards municipal infrastructure.. to administrative buildings, school buildings, Chitalishtes, where they are affected and burned, where their construction, cultural monuments and so on is violated. They have enough resources, funds to restore these public buildings and the homes of the injured Bulgarian citizens. The other problem that you are putting in place and affecting is indeed the low culture that we have in terms of insurance. But this is a separate issue on which it may be good to take a legislative decision, which will solve once and for all when there are disasters, accidents, accidents when there are fires, destroyed property, resources, sources of funding, which will actually help Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u149	Thank you, Mr. Donev. We are moving on to asking the second current questions from "There is such a people." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u150	Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Pekanov, related to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. We are all aware of what opportunities this plan provides for the Bulgarian economy and for all our citizens. My specific question is: after the submission of the Plan on July 20 and the hearing here in the Chamber, where you received a number of proposals and criticisms, and then many other proposals were sent from businesses and municipalities, have you made any changes, have there been adjustments to the Plan? What is the readiness to submit a final version of the Plan, and in your opinion, is the receipt of funds under the Plan in the course of this budget year in doubt, since, including the budget update provided, the money will be received as early as this year, the first 13%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u151	Thank you. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u152	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Thank you for your question. A few points. After the discussion last week, we took into account a large part of the opinions expressed, recommendations, opinions, criticisms. Some of them we are working on, some of them we can't work on in the sense: as I said, ideas for new projects at the current moment seem impossible to be included in the Plan under the rather long procedure that I explained. In fact, I also have a presentation that I have shown, I can further show it to you from the idea of a new project to being ready and entering as part of the Plan. It can take about three months, as any new ideas include market research, justification, change after all and common frameworks. I mean, new projects that we've been discussing, and they're not in place yet. What we do is address open criticism. We had a meeting with representatives of the agricultural industry. They expressed their concerns. In the framework of the optimizations that we are doing, we have managed to find another 170 million to be for the agricultural industry in addition to those that were currently pawned, 250 million, and now we are working on clearing out exactly how to use them, in the best way without making new projects involved, as it will lead to a very long period of work. Last week, I spoke the two open points on which, in general, the office in this phase at the moment, it is very difficult to present any solutions, because, as I presented a large part of them, they depend on a long-term perspective and continuity with a next regular cabinet. They are in the future of coal regions and in the sphere of rule of law. As we continue to have requirements from the European Commission that we will provide them with some vision of this. It was in this direction that I opened two weeks ago with the publication of the Plan. My opinion is that I am open to discussions with you on these two questions about how they can lay down, what we can promise, which will be realistic that it will be implemented in the coming years. Here, as I said, and the European institutions themselves expect continuity, that is, they ask whether the political parties are ready to commit to it. On these two open questions, we need to look for solutions. I also expect political decisions, after all, for the future of governance in the country to sit down, if there are no political solutions in the coming days, to resolve these issues. I have always said that the funds are not threatened, the funds depend on the moment we send the Plan and it is approved. The funds are in no way at stake in my opinion. So these are the processes that are going on right now. Yeah, we get a lot of opinions. We try to address some of them when they address a specific project, a specific component in it. As I said, there is an optimization of the overall picture. This is the current situation. And as I have said more than once, I am open to further discussions with all the parliamentary groups to resolve the remaining open issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u153	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u154	Thank you. Is that 170 million the only change? And if so, where did the money come from, which other projects have dropped out to increase these? Here from the stands, including you, remind me that if I am wrong, you have agreed that the money allocated to the business, this 1.2 billion, should be reformed, with most of it being like direct payments and not under funding schemes. Did you make any changes in that part? And the other thing that I am also suggesting is that the money is not endangered, but I did not understand: are not threatened to receive the advance this year, or did you mean that it is not threatened in general? I mean, what exactly did you want to say? Because it is extremely important because the update has been submitted. This money, in your opinion, will the 13 percent go in this year, or will it not go in?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u155	Thank you, Mr. Danailov. Here you go, Mr. Pekanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u156	Thank you, Mr. Danailov. About the 170 million. This is a buffer that was still within the budget. After all, it is important to know that we do not know exactly the exact value of the money we are going to receive, as the funds are also being calculated by the decline in GDP and unemployment last year and this year, which we do not yet know. So in the future, we're going to figure out what the exact answer is going to be to whether it's going to be 12, 6, 12, 7, 12.8 billion. lv. So here you can bet a little bit above the current value and hence use these funds for this particular sector. In terms of endangerment. I believe that if we can send the Plan within September, there will be no threat for this year. That is, the procedure you know about two months after sending the Plan is approved, and I believe that if we manage to deal with this task within September, the money under the Plan should come this year and there should be no threat. At this point, that's what it looks like. Regarding the grant. Here, as I said, ultimately the beneficiaries, the beneficiaries of the projects are the individual ministries. We're having a conversation with the Ministry of Economy here. I have stated that yes, it is possible that we should look at an increase in the balance between grants and grants. Talks are still under way, not yet extreme changes have been made, as we have not reached the final decision on what is the right balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u157	Thank you, Mr. Pekanov. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u158	Honourable President, Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to Prime Minister Yanev. Dear Prime Minister, we are in a new wave of COVID-19. I am extremely concerned about the trend that we have seen in the last few days. The number of hospitalized people is approaching 1,000. Cases are growing and we are already chasing 500 positives on a daily basis. This is a very serious concern. The baseline reproductive number today is 1,314. COVID wave is still invisible to the general public, but it is seriously tangible to my fellow doctors. Less than a month ago in the Council of Ministers, you adopted an Action Plan which, for some reason, is not respected by the Minister of Health himself. According to the Council of Ministers adopted by you, Bulgaria is still in the green zone. However, the minister issued an order which is in total opposition to the Plan adopted by the government. Let me give two examples. According to the Plan you have accepted, there should be restrictions on home gatherings of up to 20 visitors from three to four households, restrictions on private gatherings of up to 100 indoors and up to 200 outdoor weddings, baptisms and others. These hypotheses, Prime Minister, are absent from the order of the Health Minister. Another absurdity. The plan voted by the caretaker government provides for relief for the staff of the cafes and restaurants, nightclubs, gaming halls and casinos in staff under 10 people, all of which hold a vaccination certificate, or sicken masks are not mandatory. This is absent again from the order of the health minister. Why did the government not implement the initial measures that correspond to the so-called Green Level 1 adopted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July? Why, instead of applying the light measures provided for in the green zone, are you now threatening the population and the business by imposing directly the measures from the orange zone of the plan you have adopted? You told yourself about the failed vaccination campaign. Mr. Prime Minister, who is currently in charge of the health crisis, the President, the government, the Plan or Minister Katsarov? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u159	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, the health crisis I hope you will agree with me, must be managed and managed by the health minister, as a person of the profession who understands the details best, and the ways of interpreting the specific indicators of how the trends are going in terms of infectivity, in terms of taking adequate measures and in terms of how the Plan is implemented, which, as you yourself said, is very recently adopted, so to say in the mandate of the caretaker government. In this sense, the management of the health crisis must be in the hands of the medics. You're right that the feeling that a wave is coming is mostly amongst the medics. For normal Bulgarian citizens, for everyday people I suppose the most widespread thinking is that this summer season will probably be approximately similar to last year. Yes, you are right that the figures that we have at the moment in terms of morbidity, in terms of the tests that are being done at the moment, are rather talking about the opposite, that probably by the end of August the trend is for worsening the situation. In this regard, it is no accident that Minister Katsarov and the management of the Ministry of Health are talking about crossing into an orange zone with the appropriate measures resulting from this, but these measures will be announced and taken by this management. From the point of view of crisis management and from the point of view of logic, this is what is also written as a plan and is being implemented. From the point of view of immunization, it has already come up, several times, we have repeatedly commented on this topic. The attitudes of Bulgarian citizens are such. Why are they like that? I don't get to do an analysis. There could be a lot of factors. There may be a personal belief that the crisis has been wrongly managed so far and therefore people are not convinced. Indeed, if this low rate of vaccination occurs next September, the effect can be very serious for the Bulgarian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u161	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Here you go, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u162	Dear Prime Minister, you have agreed to practically everything I have said so far, but I have not heard from you what the Bulgarian government or the Bulgarian Minister of Health is doing so that we do not get to the orange zone and that we remain in the green zone. Actually, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry for the rude expression, but our health system is in white pants. I will give some examples to support my words. The situation in Burgas is extremely difficult. In hospitals they do not want to accept patients with COVID-19 because of the new stupid methodology with 1000 leva of medics for the first line, the so-called 0.11 st. for a minute. We made Bulgarian doctors have to go on duty with a stopwatch in their pocket and report how long they worked. In Veliko Tarnovo due to a personnel crisis there is a danger to close the pulmonary dispensary, which is, perhaps, the only one in Northern Bulgaria. And last but not least on Monday, there is an announced protest of emergency medics and trade unions in front of the Ministry of Health. The main motive is that the colleagues have not received their remuneration for June. In other words, in the course of a wave, we have a deep crisis with the motivation of the medics. The people who have to save us from the virus once again. This, in my opinion, Prime Minister, is abuse and cynicism with Bulgarian doctors, nurses and nurses. And I'm sorry that you have to be lipstick here because the health minister is gone. Where's the health minister? Was it yesterday at the Council of Ministers? Let me tell you where he is, Mr. Yanev. He's on vacation, on vacation at sea. He's been tired for two months. In the course of a wool pattern Stoycho Katsarov is on holiday. Can you imagine? I am convinced by your words just now in the lapsus of the Ministry of Defence, as a Bulgarian officer, Mr. Yanev, you cannot approve such desertion from the battle, but with deserters we all know what happens during battle. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and shouting: "Bravo!" by the National Representative Nikolay Nankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u163	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, I suggest we not start with the lapsus and the serious words of this tribune. Out of respect for the National Assembly I will not be firm and sharp and do a short course in mathematics, but with these 0.11 st. If we put eight hours of work, it becomes more than 50 BGN, and 20 working days, it becomes more than 1000 BGN. So let us not talk about the treatment of the medics, because the management of the crisis at the moment and this plan, which is prepared by Minister Katsarov, focuses attention right on the medics, the people who are on the front line. Removes people from hospital administration, computer specialists or drivers who are not in direct contact with people affected patients and treated to receive such money. That's what this is about. That's where that noise is for those 0.11s. I think so. Regarding who, where and how the crisis is being managed, I do not want to comment, because the reasons with which Mr. Katsarov has not been working for two days are quite different and should not be commented on in my opinion on such a tribune. Let's leave the privacy of the people and focus on the tasks we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u165	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister! On 3 August 2021, the Association of Water and Water and Water Association Haskovo presented to its General Assembly a Business Plan for the period 2022 "2026." Municipal councilors from all representative groups in the Municipal Council "Haskovo" issued a joint declaration regarding the provided Business Plan in the municipality, which is based on the requests and appeal of the councilors from BSP in Haskovo, not to support and vote against. Together with Haskovo, the municipalities voted against: Lyubimets, Svilengrad, Stambolovo, Topolovgrad and Harmanli. The municipality of Dimitrovgrad was abstentioned, while the municipality of Dimitrovgrad voted 35%, i.e. the state. Thus the Business Plan was not agreed and the responsibility is again in the KEWRC field. In the Plan of the Association there is another interesting for marking, namely that the social tolerability of the price of water services will be BGN 5.47. as of 2026, although Haskovo District has one of the lowest average wages. The old plumbing network is a huge problem, with more than 50% of the water supply in Haskovo municipality, for example, leaking into the streets and the shortage to consumers, understand the Bulgarian citizens, or this is more than 5 million cubics, which will be converted to the yield price of 17 million. lv. Annually. It is important to emphasise that the proposed increase in the cost of water is not linked to investments to improve the quality of services...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u167	Mr. Donchev, state the question that your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u168	Yeah, I'm coming. ...which means that the cost of water is not fully linked to its quality. Prime Minister, my question is for you. Do you consider the pricing approach to be adequate and is it not better to take, firstly, the rehabilitation of the existing water supply network in the problem areas in order to reduce losses and then burden citizens with additional costs, and in the context of a deep social and economic crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u169	Thank you. Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Donchev, an important issue which concerns not only citizens and relevant decisions of the municipal councils in Haskovo and municipalities around Haskovo, but is an important issue for the whole country. Not only from a social point of view, not only from the point of view of raising the price, which is currently unbearable in some regions or at the limit of intolerance for many people. A very serious issue which, unfortunately, its decision is complex because there is a relationship between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which sets the price ceilings on an annual basis between the water holding company, which is under the hat of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the relevant municipalities, i.e. the branches of the water holding company. These relationships are complex enough and vary in each region for different reasons.. on the basis of water supply opportunities, available water sources, wear of the water supply network and so on, but there is also a common denominator. The common denominator is that in fact the solutions are complex, require quite serious investment and for the managers of the water companies is easier, rather than preparing the relevant proposal for construction and replacement of plumbing, new plumbing or replacement of the relevant urban network, which takes time, which takes effort and consequently redirected to the relevant programmes that could finance this activity, the reflex in them is to ask for an increase in price. That is, citizens to cover losses through the accounts they receive, which is not fair. All of us, including you, the MPs, all of this mechanism needs to be reviewed and made more effective, not to bring about the fact and the effect of the citizens to pay for this type of bad management decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u171	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. A line? You don't. A question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u172	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question will once again be related to the Kovid crisis, only this time because we discussed the medical aspects a lot, I wish we could discuss this with one idea a little bit more sideways, so my question will be addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Donev. We are at dawn, at least in the direction of the red zone, with the adoption of a plan that for the first time structures the approach to each of these stages and creates predictability. It is obvious that this approach has much more advantages in predicting against the elastic we have been stretching before, and in this regard, we can adopt preventive measures at any stage, including at the moment. I am sure that much of the people are worried about the upcoming red zone Lockdowns, the majority of the people will be influenced not by the horse itself, but by the measures that are being adopted there, the social and economic parts of this plan are important, and in this regard integration into the Action Plan for coping with the social and economic measures are an important component of overall coping and because they affect many more people. In this regard, I would like to get a little more clarity on how exactly this is being done, and what measures are provided for? And as a sub-question: you manage the state administration, one of the large organized groups in our country, are there any specific messages broadcast to them regarding the personal example of vaccination and compliance with the measures related to the Minister of Health's order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u173	Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Simidchiev, on time asked a question. Indeed, the measures that are being planned and which are currently being implemented are incorporated into the Plan, in its stages of managing the health crisis. All measures, with the exception of the measure, will be implemented at the third and fourth stages of the health plan. The measure 60/40 will continue in design, as currently applied, with a decrease in turnover of 30%. State support will be 50% of the insured persons' insurance income and 50% of the insurance contributions to the health and social security of insured persons by the employer, respectively. We also propose a new measure - 75/0, which will apply to all closed businesses, so I say that they will enter the third and fourth stages of the Plan, and there will cover 75% of the insurance income of the affected persons in closed businesses, and 75% of the employer's contributions will be borne. We expect approval, signing an Agreement with the European Commission, with regard to the Human Resources Development Operational Programme, the new Operational Programme, where additional funds under the measure will eventually be directed. You know that the design for these measures is in support of the business, especially the occupation for you.The employment of unemployed people who are employed again for a certain period of time is subsidized. Usually so far this has been applied within six months, our proposal is that this measure will also continue to apply. We will also continue to apply it, the patronage care for elderly people over the age of 65 and for people with disabilities who are unable to serve themselves. So there will continue the assistance to these Bulgarian citizens for the supply of food products, medicines and other necessary materials for daily use. We continue the measure to assist parents with children up to the age of 14, when school closures and switch to distance training are needed, to help those parents who will be on unpaid leave. So all these measures, which are planned and which we are ready to trigger at every stage of the complication of the epidemic situation, will be in support of the Bulgarian citizens, in support of the business. Moreover, here the measure 75/0 has expanded, and we have included all self-insuring persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u175	Mr. Donev, you'll have time in the back eventually. Here's a line for you, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u176	Thank you for your information, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I sincerely hope we don't go that far, so we can stop the process before we get there. And in this regard, I'm going to use some of my time as a line for a call to my colleagues. Colleagues, a few days ago, I had the opportunity to say three words about vaccines saving lives. Please, together, all of us, when we go to our electoral regions, to call on people to vaccinate against a horse so that we can save lives. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u177	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Simidchiev, the really personal example of each of us is to support that Bulgarian citizens are motivated to be vaccinated. Indeed, vaccines save lives. I would like to turn once again from this high tribune and call on all Bulgarian medics who have not been vaccinated to do so because Bulgarian citizens watch and trust mostly the medical staff, their doctor, whether to be vaccinated or wait and not to be vaccinated. The Bulgarian doctors are the ones who can explain the benefits of inoculating the Bulgarian citizen and, accordingly, the harms that could subsequently occur in the post-covid syndromes, which are much more severe in those who have caused COVID-19. Here is the place to say that although vaccination, the vaccination process in Bulgaria is voluntary, all social workers who have contact with people who have long-term care who are placed in homes, in resident services for long-term care, health-social services are to be vaccinated because they will also keep the old, elderly and disabled in these homes. Similarly, we could appeal to those who work in hotels, in restaurants, in restaurants, in shops, where daily manopotok is very large, where they meet different Bulgarian citizens, too, to be vaccinated. Our message should be to the different groups in the Bulgarian society and we should examine why they refuse vaccination? Why do young people not want to be vaccinated? Why are the elderly still hesitant to receive vaccination? We need to have targeted policy and communication, information with each of these groups on different communication and information channels, depending on this, each of these groups...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u179	Thank you, Mr. Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u180	...which of these data channels uses. But there's nothing better than vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u181	Thank you. A question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Deputy Prime Minister Pekanov, last week we had a relatively good hearing dedicated to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Your part of the work on coordination, as we understand it, is done relatively well, which we cannot say about the transparency and openness of the work of the ministries that have participated in the process of preparing and updating the Plan. I am making this introduction because it is directly related to my question, and it is: what work has been done by the caretaker government to prepare for the next Multiannual Financial Framework and, more precisely, how far has the Partnership Agreement reached the last public version of April this year, as well as the work on the various operational programmes whose latest publicly available versions have been since October last year? An integral part of my question is also the status of implementation of horizontal and thematic unlocking conditions for funds. If you find time, do not forget to include in your response the aspects of transparency and inclusion of business and active and free citizens in the process. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u183	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u184	Thank you very much for the question. Firstly, something that is not related to the subject, but it was simply important for me to get involved, I want to support my colleagues and what is said about the need to encourage vaccination as an important process for the next months in our country better, encouraging this to be strengthened and all Bulgarian citizens who can do so. About that. Actually, some things aren't exactly like that, I'd say. There are new versions of the operational programs. There was a public discussion on July 15th. It did not have such a big response in view of the political situation in my opinion, but it is recorded online, you can watch it, that is, the process is ongoing. With regard to the Partnership Agreement, I held a meeting with the Economic and Social Council at the beginning of June and there were discussed the open issues of the Agreement. They are two and concern one problem, which stems from the fact that there is still a discussion with the European Commission services how many regions can fall as transition regions under the Fair Transition Fund, and here we continue to draw up our proposals. The proposal of the Bulgarian government is that they are more than the three currently admitted. In these three regions, the resources of 1.2 billion will eventually be concentrated. Euros. Yes, this, on the one hand, is an important resource for these regions, but we continue to defend the position that some of the adjacent regions must also be included. That is, not to focus this resource only on these three, because the endangered citizens of the socio-economic risks of green transition will ultimately be not only in these three regions, but also in some of the surrounding regions. There's a discussion going on here. As you know, the discussions with Brussels in August would not say that they are very active, as this is the season. We are continuing these discussions at the moment. The second question that is open is about focusing or the funds that will be allocated to the South West region. As you know, due to the fact that Sofia is part of the Southwestern region, this automatically raises GDP per capita and ultimately requires less money to already come to the Southwestern region. It is because the capital is present in this region that it looks relatively richer, and that is actually not true. A large part of the cities, if Sofia is taken out of this Southwestern region, something I have said that it may be time to take, an important step, unfortunately, it is too late for this agreement to do, but we need to start framing now. This was also spoken to the Economic and Social Council in early June. We need to start now to talk about this subject so that we can do it for the next two or three years, if there is such a political solution, so that for the next Multiannual Financial Framework this is a fact. And I say again, right now, the way it's being set, the Southwestern region is going to get too little resources. Here, too, we are negotiating this in a different way to frame and in some way to protect more funds for the rest of the Southwestern region than Sofia. I mean, these processes are running right now. We hope that in September we will be able to lock these two open topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u185	Thank you, Mr. Pekanov. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u186	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Our group is a little bit more readable and I would love to see programme texts, because videos broadcast during the election campaign must have missed them, as well as most of the country. I hope that at least you in the service cabinet understand the need for synergies between the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the related instruments, the Multiannual Financial Framework, the national efforts, and here I want to put a special focus on the European Union's policy and programmes. I particularly stress the latter because the MEPs from the DPS Renew Europe used all their political weight and influence in ALDE, the party and the group of Renew Europe, so that many of these programmes had special funds allocated to Eastern Europe and Bulgaria, such as the Horizon Europe Programme. As you know, at the end of July, that is, very recently, together with the Multiannual Financial Framework, the Council has finally approved them along with the regulations and some of them are already under open admission. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I have a supplementary question: exactly how is the additionality and synergies between the Multiannual Financial Framework, the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the national efforts and the horizontal programmes of the European Union and are you already taking into account the new legislative package, a proposal from the Commission, to speed up climate neutrality? Thanks again and good luck with your endeavors.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u187	For the back, Mr. Pekanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u188	Thanks again for asking. In depth, thank you, it is important that we have such discussions. Let's put it this way: any project that is embedded in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan has been discussed with the services of the European Commission and within the framework of the question of demarcation and synergies, namely to avoid duplication, to avoid the same actions being overlapped by the same programme. There were, of course, comments that recommend that, for example, some project change in this particular area. So each of the 7 investment projects are addressed in this area. On the other hand, of course, the managing authorities in each ministry are involved in preparing both the Recovery Plan and the current version of the operational programmes. It is they who are responsible for ensuring that this demarcation is guaranteed, and so far we do not have much criticism about the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, that there is any overlap or any such technical problems. In this line, I wouldn't say we have any concerns. This is guaranteed, as it should be, that the demarcation and synergy are present. There are projects that, on the other hand, are just like this.. have a synergy.. build something that happens on some of the operational programs through another action in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, without overlap of actions. I believe that all this is addressed to the moment so as to respond to these criticisms if they are criticism. I share. I would say that at the end of the day, the plan for recovery and sustainability goes along the line of green transition, that is, everything that has been at stake before and now. Yes, even more ambitious goals have now been presented, I agree, that is the case. It is in this connection that we have been trying in recent months to move also towards more ambitious goals of green transition within the framework of the Plan. Whether each one of the new climate law fifth five is laid down in the Plan, it depends at what point the project was framed within the Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u189	Thank you, Mr. Pekanov. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Dear Prime Minister, it will now be almost three months in which you are Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. What are the violations you saw in the cabinet Borisov 3, how can you characterize them and what have you done to prevent the practices ahead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u191	Thank you. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u192	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Capon, one question which I think within these nearly three months has received multiple answers and repeating them once again I do not see what will bring us a new one. However, the violations that we have found are primarily linked to money that is directed in areas where their transparent and effective spending is not clear. In the field of responsibilities of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, what is said in the field of economics and precisely the State consolidation company and its responsibilities with advance paid money for the repair of dams are sufficient examples. It can also be talked about the effective or ineffective financing of other activities. In practice, money has been given for activities that will be implemented in the future and at the same time the money for current needs is not available. This issue of money is sufficiently commented and spoken, it is explained through all ministers and I do not see the possibility and reason to say something new in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u193	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u194	Dear Prime Minister, it becomes clear that the path of money is the path of the mafia. But what I expected from you is to find out how many files have been handed over to the prosecution, what are the real actions that the government has done, and what is the condition that you will leave to the next cabinet anyway, and your readiness, as you can see, perhaps taking on a severe political crisis, if it is to come? We monitor the actions of this government, but we also support in all actions through the Revision Commission, which is the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u195	Prime Minister, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kapon, the process of engaging the judiciary, respectively the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, continues at the moment. Literally yesterday, we handed over materials. We don't have accurate statistics on ministries right now. I expect the analysis of the aggregated activity of all ministries of portfolios in order to analyse and prepare a final one of the entire government to be ready literally by tomorrow so that on Monday we have the aggregated data. But I do remember that in just one feather related to the theme "Strength Roads" more than 60 signals have been sent.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u197	How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u198	Over 60. I'm telling you again, the statistics aren't accurate, and I can't say right now. I guess we'll have more clarity on Monday. However, today we are talking about blitzcontrol, we are not definitely going to prepare ourselves on pre-set issues. With regard to what we have done where possible, we have changed the actions of certain decrees of the Council of Ministers, with which this type of behaviour was possible. We have made it possible for new contracts and contracts to necessarily go through the Public Procurement Act regime. That's what we've done. Unfortunately, living life is such that there are mechanisms that we have used. The existence of decrees allowing for inhouse orders, we used, for example, to buy the additional machines for the Central Election Commission for the 11 July elections, so I do not want to enter into a debate on whether it is right or wrong. When it is in public, people will be able to tell what is right and what is wrong. It's about us saying what we know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u199	Thank you, Prime Minister. With that, the blitz control for today is over. I thank the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister for participating in today's blitzcontrol, and we continue with our work. [[Applause from ICN and DB.]] We continue with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Madam President of the Temporary Commission, please report to Art. Ninety-five and the next.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u200	Under art. 95 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 95: Art. 95. The questions shall be answered within 14 days of their registration. The answer may be oral or written. The answer is written when the people's representative who made the question expressed an express desire to do so. A Member of the National Assembly having asked an oral question may request in writing a change of the type of response in writing by 18:00 of the day preceding parliamentary control. The time limit for the reply shall be 7 days from the date of the request for the change and shall not be postponed by the Minister. The requests and replies to them shall be submitted in paper form and in electronic form or in full electronic form, such as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures, shall be registered in a public register without delay, and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly in the section of the Parliamentary Control. The Commission shall support the text for art. 96. The Commission shall support the text for art. 97. The Commission shall support the text for art. 98. Under art. 99 there is a proposal of the MP Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 99: Art. 99. (1) Once the National Assembly shall proceed to the examination of the questioning, the importer may develop it within 3 minutes. The answer to the question is in five minutes. (2) After the answer to the question, the national representative who asked him shall have the right to ask no more than two supplementary questions within 2 minutes in total and the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister shall answer within 3 minutes. In the case of written answer to the question, subsequent supplementary questions shall not be allowed. (3) No debate shall be held on the answer to the question and no lines shall be allowed. The people's representative who made the question may express his attitude to the answer within 2 minutes. There is no reply from the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister. Under art. 100 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 100: Art. 100. Where a written reply to a question has been received, the President shall communicate it at the parliamentary control meeting. The date of publication of the written reply to the questioning of the National Assembly's website in the section "Parliamentary control" shall be considered as the date of receipt by the National Representative. Under art. 101 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall propose the following version of art. 101: Art. 101. (1) Upon the proposal of one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly on the questioning shall become debates and a decision shall be adopted. Following the response to the questioning, the registered proposal for a debate together with a draft decision shall be submitted to the President in the same plenary session. (2) Debates shall be scheduled for the next plenary session designated for parliamentary control. After the debate is scheduled by the President of the National Assembly, MPs cannot withdraw their signatures from the proposal. The debates shall be held in the presence of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister in accordance with the procedure set out in Chapter 7 and shall last for one hour. The time for discussion shall be allocated among the parliamentary groups depending on their numbers, with 5 minutes for the smallest, and for the MPs not members of a parliamentary group, a total of up to 5 minutes. (3) Projects for a decision may also offer MPs other than those under para. 1. Where there is more than one draft decision, they shall be voted in accordance with the order of their entry. The vote shall take place in accordance with Article 1. 63. The Commission shall support the text for art. 102. The Commission shall support the text for art. 103. Under art. 104 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish a name: A vote of distrust. The Commission shall support the text for art. 105. The Commission shall support the text for art. 106. The Commission shall support the text for art. 107. The Commission shall support the text for art. 108. The Commission shall support the text for art. 109.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I give the floor for speeches. Anyone? I can't see. I put to the vote Articles 95 to 109, including the name of...................................................................................................... A vote of confidence. They voted 167 MPs: for 167, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u202	Section II - Parliamentary hearings. The Commission shall support the text on the name of Section II, which shall become Section III. Under art. 110 has a proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Atanas Slavov: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 to change (3) Parliamentary committees may oblige ministers, officials and citizens to attend their meetings and answer the questions asked. Interested organisations and citizens may attend these meetings. The existence of judicial and other pending proceedings before an authority shall not prevent the submission of documents or the hearing of the persons invited by the committees. The persons invited to be heard are obliged to answer the questions asked by reminding them that they are criminally liable. Within 7 days after the hearing, the relevant committee shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a report on the hearing to the Members of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 110: Art. 110. (1) The National Assembly or the committees elected by it may hold hearings on matters affecting state or public interests. (2) When the National Assembly shall proceed to the hearing, the proposer of the hearing shall make a statement of the questions within 5 minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions to be heard within 10 minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to 2 questions and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within 2 minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question within 5 minutes. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to comment on the answers of the persons heard within 5 minutes of asking all questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u203	Quiet, please! Mr. Bikov, Mrs. Doncheva, Mr. Hristo Ivanov, Mr. Ivan Ivanov to take their seats. [[Applause. Loud noise.]] Mr. Hadjigenov, I'm asking you very much to speak outside the room. Mr. Hristo Ivanov obviously didn't hear me and Mr. Radostin Vassilev I told you, the second time I repeat, please! Your conversation must be very thorough. [[Loud noise.]] Continue, Mrs. Vassileva. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! I'm making a remark to Mr. Philip Stanev about these jeans. [[(Laughter) (Applause)]] Very please, no jeans in the hall! [[(The People's Representative Philip Stanev stands up from his place, worships. Long applause from IHN. It's a thrill. (Laughter)]] And quite seriously, Mr. Stanev. Continue, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u204	Colleagues, can we proceed with the Rules now? [[Noise.]] (3) Parliamentary committees may oblige ministers and officials to attend their meetings and answer the questions asked. Interested organisations and citizens may attend these meetings. Within 7 days after the hearing, the relevant committee shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a report on the hearing to the Members of the National Assembly. Under art. 111 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall propose the following version of art. 111: Art. 111. All state authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration and citizens are obliged to provide the necessary information and documents in relation to the issues subject to hearings, even when the information is state or official secrecy and to appear at the invitation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u205	You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The Committee on the Drafting of the New Rules has not supported the proposal to change para. 3 of art. 110 of colleagues Yordanova and Slavov. This proposal is actually about adding two new sentences to the text of the paragraph, namely sentence three and sentence four. Since the two sentences concern quite different hypotheses, I will examine them separately. First of all, I will read you the third sentence: The presence of judicial and other pending proceedings before an authority does not prevent the submission of documents or the hearing of the persons invited by the committees. Colleagues, there have been cases in the practice of previous national meetings where persons invited to be heard have been called by other bodies, e.g. by the prosecution on previous days, questioned as witnesses or other procedural qualities. Then they fall into the trap of the so-called investigative secret and cannot disclose any circumstances of the ongoing investigation. For this reason, these persons refused to provide any information to a committee of inquiry formed on this very basis that they were warned that pre-trial proceedings existed. This is a procedural grip that the prosecution used to block the work of the legislature in the past. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS. Communicating: "Eee! "]] I think we should take precautions and not do this again, Mr. Manev. Colleagues from the committee for illegal wiretap... [[Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] I gave you an opportunity to explain yourself. Colleagues of the Committees of Inquiry for Illegally Eavesdropping believe that they will be confronted with the same case at the moment when they request to hear officials of the authorities dealing directly with special intelligence means, i.e. this case is to be on the attention of the Committees of Inquiry. Colleagues, in this case, the delicate issue of the independence of the authorities is being raised and the danger that Parliament interferes with the work of the other authorities, in particular with the work of the judicial authorities. I think the practice so far is the opposite. The practice is the prosecution to thwart some kind of committee of inquiry from parliament. Here I just want to say that the independence of the authorities is not absolute. Authorities are controlled by each other and the law allows careful intervention of one power in another when it is judged... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u207	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u208	...that it is necessary to avoid, for example, overpowering or abuse of power. I believe that with the acceptance of... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u209	Mrs. Doncheva...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u210	I believe that with the adoption of this text, Parliament will not influence... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u211	What are you doing? How many times do I have to tell you? Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u212	Thank you. With the adoption of this text, my fellow Members, I believe that Parliament will not influence the decisions of the other authorities, especially the judiciary, but will have the opportunity to obtain sufficient information in order to implement its powers, the adoption of laws and parliamentary control over the executive power. This is in terms of sentence three in para. 3 of art. 110. The next sentence is a proposal for amendment of the Rules of Procedure Project, which is a sentence four: The persons invited to be heard are obliged to answer the questions asked by reminding them that they are indicted. The persons who are invited to a hearing, colleagues... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u213	Mrs. Doncheva, please don't cause any trouble in this room!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u214	Thank you, Madam President. The persons who are invited to a hearing are not invited to a friendly conversation and they must clearly understand the responsibility they bear, tell the truth and not conceal facts at their discretion. My practice so far in two committees of inquiry or temporary committee shows that those invited to be heard are generally responsible for their duties to be present, but they do not seem to be aware clearly of the responsibility they are responsible for speaking the truth. I think such a reminder will cheer up their memory and stimulate them to stick to the facts. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The two proposals that have been made concern not so much an extension of the instruments of the parliamentary committees to polls or permanent surveys, but rather about additional guarantees for the implementation of their powers. Since the two proposals are quite different in substance, I would like to propose that they be voted separately, if such a thing is, of course, possible under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u215	Which sentences: The availability of court proceedings and other pending proceedings......................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u217	And the invited persons...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u218	Yeah, they're different hypotheses.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u219	They are obliged to respond by reminding them that they are carrying...............then they are carrying........ Okay. I would like to remind you that such a text was in the Rules of the National Assembly in 2009 and was declared unconstitutional by Decision No 9 of 2011. Just because it has special opinions does not mean that a constitutional solution is not, it is a fact and we are obliged to comply with it and implement it. I have it and any MP can get acquainted with this decision. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of Nadezhda Yordanova and Atanas Slavov. [[Reply.]] Okay, I'll put the fourth sentence to a separate vote. Please vote third sentence of the proposal of Nadezhda Yordanova and Atanas Slavov. They voted 187 MPs: 36, against 126, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the fourth sentence of the proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Atanas Slavov. Vote 186 MPs: 42, against 101, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the name of Section II, which becomes Section III, and Articles 110 to 111 inclusive. They voted 147 MPs: 142, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u220	"Department III "Studies and polls ". The Commission shall support the text on the name of Section III, which shall become Section IV. Under art. 112, 113 and 114 no proposals were made. The Commission shall support the texts for each of the three articles respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u221	Excuse me, speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote Section III the name which lists Section IV and Articles 112 to 114 inclusive. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Heckling]] With the new rules, the result by group will come out automatically. Please report Chapter 10th.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u222	Chapter 10 of Parliamentary Monitoring and Control on European Union Issues. The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter 10a. Under art. 115 there is a proposal made by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposed by MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 115: Art. 115. (1) The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union within 7 days of its adoption. (2) The President of the National Assembly shall distribute the annual programme under para. 1 of the Standing Committees. Within three weeks of its receipt, the Standing Committees, with the exception of the European Union Committee, shall draw up their proposals for the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs, taking into account the European Commission's Work Programme for the relevant year. (3) Within 14 days of the expiry of the term under para. 2 The Committee on European Union Affairs, taking into account the proposals of the other Standing Committees, shall draw up a draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs. The annual work programme shall contain a list of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union on which the National Assembly supervises and controls. The draft annual work programme shall be discussed and adopted by the National Assembly. (4) The President of the National Assembly shall send to the Council of Ministers the adopted annual work programme under para. 3. (5) Under new circumstances, the European Union Committee may propose, on its own initiative or on a proposal from other Standing Committees, the examination of a draft act which is not included in the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs. In this case, the Commission on European Union Affairs shall inform the Council of the draft act and the examination shall be subject to art. 116-118. The Commission shall support the text for art. 116. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 117: Art. 117. (1) The President of the National Assembly within the term laid down in art. 71, para. 1 allocates to the Commission on European Union matters and to the competent Standing Committees the framework position submitted by the Council of Ministers under art. 116, para. 1 and the draft of the act. The draft act shall be provided by the database under art. 120 and applies to the framework item. (2) The Commission on European Union matters on its own initiative or on a proposal from a permanent committee may impose a parliamentary reserve on the draft act of an institution of the European Union included in the annual work programme under art. 115, para. 3. The Parliamentary Reserve obliges the Government not to express an opinion on the draft act in the Council of the European Union until the National Assembly has given its ruling, but no later than the third meeting of the Council preparatory body dealing with the draft act. The Commission supports in principle the text p proposes the following version of art. 118: Art. 118. (1) The Commission on European Union matters shall discuss the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union and the framework positions thereof, taking into account the reports of the competent Standing Committees, if any. The Commission on European Union matters shall draw up a report on the draft act. (2) The Standing Committees shall examine the draft legislative act to comply with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, subject to the time limit laid down in art. 6 of Protocol (No 2) to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u223	Please, just a moment! [[Applause to the left of the room.]] Mr. Marinov, I beg you very much not to speak on the phone in plenary. Please, outside! [[Radio.]] Continue, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u224	s (3) Where a failure to comply with the principle of subsidiarity is found in a draft legislative act of an institution of the European Union, the Commission on European Union matters shall draw up a reasoned opinion. (4) The Committee on European Union Affairs shall present the prepared report or reasoned opinion to the President of the National Assembly, who shall send it to the Council of Ministers and to the Presidents of the European Parliament, to the Council of the European Union and to the European Commission within the time limit laid down in art. 6 of Protocol (No 2) to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 119: Art. 119. The National Assembly shall make a reasoned request to the Council of Ministers to bring an action for non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in a legislative act of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Under art. 120 no proposals made. The Commission shall support the text of art. 120. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 121: Art. 121. (1) The European Union Committee shall hear candidates for positions in the institutions of the European Union proposed by the Council of Ministers. (2) The candidates under para. 1 are obliged to attend a meeting of the European Union Committee on Affairs and to answer the questions raised by its members. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 122: Art. 122. (1) The National Assembly shall participate in the mechanisms for assessing the implementation of the European Union's policies within the area of freedom, security and justice, in Europol's political control and in the assessment of Eurojust's activities. (2) The National Assembly shall participate in the review procedures of the Treaties of the European Union. (3) The National Assembly shall examine applications for accession to the European Union. (4) The National Assembly shall participate in the process of interparliamentary cooperation in the European Union. Under art. 123 has a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 123: Art. 123. The National Assembly may hold a hearing of the Prime Minister on the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in forthcoming meetings, as well as on the results of the meetings of the European Council. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 124: Art. 124. (1) The Council of Ministers, acting in accordance with art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution, informs the National Assembly on issues relating to the obligations arising for the Republic of Bulgaria from its membership in the European Union. (2) The Committee on European Union Affairs shall report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the obligation of the Council of Ministers for prior information in its participation in the development and adoption of European Union acts. The Commission shall also draw up reports on other acts of the institutions of the European Union. Under art. 125 and 126 no proposals have been made. The Commission supports the texts of the two members, respectively, for art. Art. 125, Art. 126.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u225	Thank you. You have the floor. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I put to the vote the name of Chapter 10 together with Articles 115 to 126 inclusive. Vote 184 MPs: for 183, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u226	"Chapter 11" "People's representatives". The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter 11. "Section I......................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text on the name of Section 1. The Commission shall support the text for art. 127. Under art. 128 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 128: Art. 128. The Members of the National Assembly shall retain their post of office or employment in public or municipal establishments or enterprises, commercial companies with more than 50 per cent of state or municipal participation in capital or budgetary organisations, taking unpaid leave until the end of their mandate. Upon termination of the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly, the use of unpaid leave shall be terminated. Under art. 129 no proposals have been made. The Commission shall support the text for art. 129.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u227	Maybe so far, Mrs. Vassileva. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 11, the name of Section I and Articles 127, 28 and 129. Vote 187 MPs: 187, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u228	Under art. 130 has a proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Julian Nenchev and Galina Tavalicka-Georgieva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 130 is created a new para. 3 containing the following content: (3) The Member of the National Assembly may continue to exercise his profession as a doctor and medical professional in medical institutions registered under the Law on Medical Institutions, except for participation in sole and collective bodies of management and supervision. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text for art. 130.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u229	Thank you. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u230	Madam President, honourable Members! I will not hide the reason for proposing this text, and it is the presence of a doctor in our parliamentary group, who works on the front line in the Kovid ward of the hospital in Kyustendil, but this hypothesis may also apply to many other doctors who now or in a subsequent parliament would fall into the National Assembly. It is at all about the crisis with doctors and medical staff and nurses, especially in hospitals in the countryside. Especially for the hospital in Kyustendil Dr. Tvalica really is an invaluable shot, an invaluable doctor, and then when the human power in the coffin wards practically counts on the toes, you give duty practically 24 hours, then one such person is really priceless. On the other hand, there is no possibility to engage in work, particularly in a hospital which is not regulated by a contract of employment. So the specific reason to make this proposal is the situation in the Kyustendil hospital and the fact that Dr. Tavalica is a MP, but in this hypothesis This is the reason why we are making this proposal, and I now leave it to your discretion to support or not this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of Maya Manolova, Julian Nenchev and Galina Tavalica-Georgieva, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 177 MPs: 33, against 62, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission for art. 130. They voted 178 MPs: 175 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u232	Under art. 131 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 131: Art. 131. (1) The Members of the National Assembly may not carry out any other public service or carry out an activity which, according to the law, is incompatible with the situation of a Member of the National Assembly. (2) The Members of the National Assembly shall not be entitled to participate in management or control bodies of commercial companies and cooperatives. (3) The Members of the National Assembly may continue to participate in the collective management bodies and scientific bodies of the higher schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, with the exception of sole executive positions. The Commission shall support the text for art. 132. The Commission shall support the text for art. 133. The Commission shall support the text for art. 134. The Commission shall support the text for art. 135. The Commission shall support the text for art. 136. The Commission shall support the text for art. 137. The Commission shall support the text for art. 138.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u233	You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I put to the vote Articles 131 to 138. Vote 182 MPs: for 182, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u234	Section II "Ethical Codes of Conduct." The Commission shall support the text on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text for art. 139. The Commission shall support the text for art. 140. The Commission shall support the text for art. 141. The Commission shall support the text for art. 142. The Commission shall support the text for art. 143. The Commission shall support the text for art. 144. The Commission shall support the text for art. 145. The Commission shall support the text for art. 146. The Commission shall support the text for art. 147. The Commission shall support the text for art. 148. Under art. 149 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 149: Art. 149. The National Representative shall be entitled to no more than three material collaborators. The National Assembly shall establish and keep a public register of the things collaborators in the National Assembly. The register shall also include persons participating in the preparation, discussion and adoption of acts or documents in the National Assembly under a civil contract, the task assigned and the level of remuneration, subject to the requirements for the protection of personal data. Under art. 150 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 150: Art. 150. (1) The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs shall establish an infringement under this Section and rule by a decision which may impose the following measures: 1. note; 2. reprimand; 3. suspension from one to three committee meetings. (2) When determining the measure, account shall be taken of the gravity of the infringement and its expediency, recurrent or systemic nature. (3) The Member of the National Assembly shall not receive remuneration for the meetings from which he has been removed. Under art. 151 has a proposal from MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 151: Art. 151. (1) Any Member of the National Assembly, natural or legal person may submit a complaint or a signal of violation of ethical standards of conduct to the Sub-Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics by order determined by the rules of para. 4. (2) The subcommittee on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics shall propose to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs that a decision be taken to impose a measure under art. 150, para. 1 after hearing from the Member of the National Assembly and getting acquainted with all the materials related to the violation of ethical standards of conduct. The subcommittee shall publish the decision in a public register of the National Assembly after communicating it to the National Assembly. (3) The Members of the National Assembly shall have the right to express an opinion on the decision to be published in the Register under para. 2. (4) The subcommittee under para. 1 shall adopt rules on the application of this Section.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u235	You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the name of Section II and Articles 139 to 151 inclusive. Vote 184 MPs: 161, against 20, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u236	"Department III "Parliamentary Behaviour." The Commission shall support the text on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text for art. 152. The Commission shall support the text for art. 153. The Commission shall support the text for art. 153. The Commission shall support the text for art. 154. The Commission shall support the text for art. 155. The Commission shall support the text for art. 156. The Commission shall support the text for art. 157. The Commission shall support the text for art. 158. Under art. 159 there is a proposal of the MP Nadezhda Yordanova and Atanas Slavov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 37. The Commission shall support the text for art. 160. The Commission shall support the text for art. 161.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u237	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Section III together with Articles 152 to 161. Vote 180 MPs: 177, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u238	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the text on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text on § 1. The Commission supports the text on § 2. The Commission shall support the text on § 3. The Commission supports the text on § 4. According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In secret voting, the members of the National Assembly shall be considered to have participated in the vote. The Commission shall support the text on § 6. The Commission shall support the text on § 7. The Commission supports the text on § 8. The Commission supports the text on § 9. The Commission supports the text on § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u239	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the name of the division to the vote, together with paragraphs 1 to 10. Vote 178 MPs: 161, against 13, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u240	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following name of the division: The Commission supports the text on § 11. According to § 12, there is a proposal of the MP Iva Miteva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... The drafts and drafts of decisions, declarations and addresses shall be submitted in paper form and in electronic form until the electronic signature certificates are issued and the technical capability to do so is ensured. The Commission supports the text on § 13. The Commission supports the text on §14.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u241	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the section of the Board of Directors "Transitional and final provisions" together with paragraphs 11 to 14 inclusive. Vote 179 MPs: for 178, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u242	"Acceptance to art. 70, para. 3 - Methodology for carrying out preliminary assessment of the impact of the drafts. The Commission shall support the text of the Annex to art. 70, para. 3. "Application to the Rules of Procedure Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly." Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Julian Nenchev and Galina Tavalicka-Georgieva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 of the Annex to the Rules of Procedure in the part of the Financial Rules under the budget of the National Assembly and the expression "three medium-term salaries" is replaced by the expression "one medium-month salary." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Julian Nenchev and Galina Tavalicka-Georgieva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10 of the Annex to the Rules of Procedure the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) Every parliamentary group and parliamentary committee shall have the right to use one motor vehicle of the National Assembly. 2. Alinei 2, 3 and 5 are canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Iva Miteva and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Maria Kapon, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following amendments to the Annex to the Rules of Procedure: "Application to the Rules of Procedure" Financial rules on the budget of the National Assembly Art. 1. (1) The separate budget of the National Assembly is part of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The budget of the Economic and Social Council shall be part of the budget of the National Assembly. (3) The budget of the National Assembly shall include all revenue from the activities of its secondary officers with budget, administrative and economic costs, the maintenance of the parliamentary groups, the expenses of the committees, the Members of the National Assembly, the international activities and the interparliamentary organisations. (4) Specific projects and programmes related to the formation of democratic civil culture, leadership skills and democratic practices in the decision-making process can also be financed from the budget of the National Assembly, as well as courses for qualification of MPs and leaders from all parliamentary represented parties and coalitions with a view to the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. (5) The secondary officers with a budget for the budget of the National Assembly shall be the heads of the Economic and Social Council, of the editorial office of the State Gazette and of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies, of the Regional Secretariat for Parliamentary Cooperation in South East Europe, of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, of the Medical and Restorative Base of the National Assembly of Velingrad and of the Food Complex. (6) The budget of the National Assembly shall provide funds for the Programme of the National Assembly. Studies are published on the program website of the National Assembly. (7) The budget of the National Assembly shall provide an annual reserve for unforeseen and/or urgent expenditure. Art. 2. (1) The President of the National Assembly or an official authorised by him shall establish a budgetary procedure setting out the order and time limits for drawing up a draft medium-term budgetary forecast and draft budget of the National Assembly on the basis of the decision of the Council of Ministers to adopt the budgetary procedure for drawing up a three-year budget forecast and state budget for the following year. (2) The Parliamentary Budget and Finance Directorate shall coordinate and prepare the projects of the medium-term budgetary forecast and of the National Assembly's budget and the draft of the accompanying reports. The summary draft budgetary forecasts and budget shall be drawn up on the basis of the drafts of the senior and secondary authorising officers by budget. The subcommittee on the control of public funds to the Budget and Finance Committee shall discuss draft budget forecasts and budget drafts and deliver opinions on them. The draft estimates, draft budget, draft reports and opinions of the subcommittee shall be made available to the President of the National Assembly. Art. 3. The use of the reservation for unforeseen and/or urgent expenditure on the budget of the National Assembly shall be carried out by order of the President of the National Assembly. Art. 4. (1) The Parliamentary Budget and Finance Directorate shall draw up a report to the Annual Cash Statement on the implementation of the National Assembly's budget on the basis of the accounts of the Executive and Secondary Officers with a budget following an audit of the National Assembly's Annual Financial Statement by the Court of Auditors. The report shall be submitted to the President of the National Assembly, who shall send it for an opinion of the subcommittee on the control of public funds to the Committee on Budget and Finance. (2) The report to the Annual Cash Report on the implementation of the budget of the National Assembly together with the audit opinion and audit report of the Court of Auditors and the opinion of the subcommittee under para. 1 shall be made available to the President of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly shall inform the Minister of Finance in writing of the opinion of the Standing subcommittee under para. 1. (3) The report on the implementation of the budget of the National Assembly shall be adopted by the National Assembly together with the annual report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 5. The Members of the National Assembly shall receive a basic monthly salary equal to three monthly salaries of employees by employment and service in the public sector, according to data from the National Statistical Institute. The basic monthly remuneration shall be revalued each quarter, taking into account the average monthly salary for the last month of the preceding quarter. Art. 6. (1) The President of the National Assembly shall receive a monthly remuneration of 55 per cent higher than the basic monthly remuneration under art. 5, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly with 45 per cent, the Chairs of the Parliamentary Committees and the Chairs of the Parliamentary Groups with 35 per cent, the Vice-Presidents of the Committees with 25 per cent, the members of the Permanent Committee with 15 per cent, and the Secretaries of the National Assembly with 10 per cent. (2) In the co-chairship of the parliamentary group, remuneration shall be paid for one chair. (3) A Member of the National Assembly who holds more than one office shall receive the higher remuneration from among them for one position, and for the other posts he shall receive remuneration as a member. (4) For participation in subcommittees, temporary committees, as well as for working groups selected by the Standing Committees, the Members of the National Assembly shall receive remuneration in proportion to the time of work, but shall not exceed 5 per cent of the basic monthly remuneration. In the event of an extension of the duration of the temporary committees and working groups, it shall be decided whether or not those involved receive additional remuneration. Art. 7. (1) To the basic monthly remuneration set out in art. 5 and 6, additional monthly remuneration for service and professional experience shall be charged for each year served, for the scientific degree of Doctor and for the doctor of the sciences and 15 per cent of the basic monthly remuneration for the national representative. (2) Of the accrued remuneration under art. 5 and 6 and by para. 1 and 2 shall be deducted at the expense of insured persons for insurance contributions under the Social Security Code, the Health Insurance Act, tax under the Income Tax Act of natural persons, other deductions determined by law, as well as deductions under art. 13. Art. 8. Members of the National Assembly shall be provided for all insurance cases with a percentage of the third category of work and shall be insured under risk insurance. Art. 9. All additional costs of accompanying and assisting a national representative with disabilities shall be borne by the budget of the National Assembly. Art. 10. (1) The transport costs of a national representative shall be recognized when travelling with the state and municipal inland transport, rail, road and water transport, first class, and sleeping space for the entire internal transport network. (2) The transport costs of the Members of the National Assembly on private bus lines shall be recognised in relation to their activities as Members of the National Assembly. (3) The transport costs of the Members of the National Assembly, selected in areas with which there is an airline connection and adjacent areas and located more than 250 km from Sofia, up to a total of 40 airline tickets per year, shall be recognised, and of the other two-way or one-way plane tickets per year up to a total of 12 aircraft tickets per year, one-way or two-way, in relation to their activities as members of the National Assembly. (4) Members of the National Assembly who do not own a family home in the territory of Sofia Municipality shall be provided free of charge by the National Assembly's Residential Fund, such as the costs of major repairs, type furniture, security through signal security equipment or otherwise, taxes and fees under the Local Taxes and Fees Act shall be borne by the budget of the National Assembly. (5) Members of the National Assembly shall be entitled to accommodations and daily expenses on behalf of the National Assembly when visiting the electoral regions. The size of accommodations and the limit of travel when travelling by your own car shall be determined by the President of the National Assembly. This issue is governed by an internal act issued by the President of the National Assembly. (6) The National Representative shall be entitled to a working room in Sofia, provided by the National Assembly with the necessary technical and communication means, as well as to an official web page on the Internet maintained on the server of the National Assembly. Art. 11. The National Assembly shall bear additional expenses of the Members of the National Assembly organised in parliamentary groups and of the Members of the National Assembly not members of a parliamentary group, amounting to two thirds of the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly under art. 5. The amounts shall be transferred to the Members of the National Assembly by bank transfer on the basis of a decision of the parliamentary groups. The decision shall determine the allocation of funds, their reporting and control. These funds are used for the payment of assistants, consultations, expertise, premises and other activities related to the work of the Members of the National Assembly and their electoral regions. Members of the National Assembly, organised in parliamentary groups and non-members of a parliamentary group, shall announce on their website information on the expenditure spent, indicating also the recipients of the funds (own and last name or name). The additional costs are subject to tax under the Corporate Income Tax Act. Art. 12. The budget of the National Assembly shall include the means of representative expenses of the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Chairs of the Parliamentary Groups, the Chairs of Standing Committees, and the means of welcoming guests invited by the National Assembly. Art. 13. (1) In the event of undue absence from a plenary session of the Member of the National Assembly, a retention equal to its daily remuneration shall be made. (2) In the event of undue absence of a meeting of a parliamentary committee, subcommittee and working group of the Members of the National Assembly, a maintenance shall be made equal to the corresponding addition for participation in the meeting. (3) In the event of undue absence of three consecutive or total 5 plenary sessions for the respective month of the Member of the National Assembly, a maintenance shall be made equal to two thirds of his monthly remuneration, and the National Assembly shall not bear more than one third of his additional expenses under art. 11. (4) Where, due to the absence of a quorum, the meeting of the National Assembly is not opened or terminated, the Members of the National Assembly who have been absent for disrespectful reasons of the meeting shall be held at the same time as two thirds of the daily remuneration. (5) The data shall be taken from the registration and voting records, references from the Chairs of Parliamentary Committees, subcommittees and working groups and from the stenographic protocols. Art. 14. The amounts set out in art. 13, refer to the budget savings of the National Assembly. Art. 15. (1) The wages under art. 5 and 7 are charged from the election day and for the additional Members of the National Assembly from the day on which the People's Representative has been elected by the Central Election Commission. Under art. 6 remuneration shall be charged from the date of election of the Members of the National Assembly to the relevant posts and to members of committees. (2) Ministers elected as MPs in the next National Assembly shall declare from which state body they wish to receive their due remuneration for the period until the election of a new Council of Ministers. Art. 16. (1) A parliamentary official who has acquired the right to a retirement pension and age shall, upon dismissal, be entitled to one-off monetary compensation of as many basic salaries as there are years served in the National Assembly, but not more than 10. (2) The parliamentary staff shall be paid each year an amount of clothing up to two months' salary per employee in the budget area. Art. 17. The National Centre for Parliamentary Studies shall publish on the website of the Center of the website of the National Assembly its plan for work, the research or studies carried out at the request of the National Assembly, a parliamentary group or committee and the subsequent assessments of the impact of the laws assigned by the committees under art. 25, para. 3, financed by the budget of the National Assembly, published publications and archived by years and topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u243	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u244	Madam President, honourable Members! There is no news in my proposal, as the Parliamentary Group is standing up! He made the same proposals for the Rules of Procedure in the forty-fiveth parliament. These proposals concern the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly, and our proposal is: instead of three average salaries in the public sector, the Members of the National Assembly will receive a monthly salary of employees in the public sector, which means that the main remuneration will be within BGN 1500. I'm not gonna argue. The proposal is clear why it is made because of the scissors that exist, between the people who work on a minimum wage and those who receive the lowest income and the representatives of the various institutions. This proposal, it is correct to say, will also affect ministers and other representative institutions, such as the President, the Constitutional Court. Along with this proposal, we are making several other proposals, which are also related to some other features that the Members of the National Assembly receive. Since I have no illusions that my first proposal, which concerns the salaries of the Members of the National Assembly, will be supported, I would still suggest that you consider whether transport costs should be recognised for travelling in state and municipal inland transport, rail, road and water in the first class, sleeping space of the Members of the National Assembly, provided that salaries are obtained which would allow everyone to pay their ticket if they were to ride in urban or long-distance transport. The same goes for airline tickets. I think it is possible for anyone who receives three monthly salaries in the public sector to pay their own plane tickets to Varna or to Burgas and vice versa, regardless of what the purpose of their visit is. As far as parliamentary cars are concerned, the Parliamentary Group is standing up! In the previous parliament, there were no parliamentary cars, and our suggestion is that each parliamentary group should have one car, the same applies to each committee. Once again, I declare on behalf of our parliamentary group that we will not use a parliamentary car, so there will be justice for the larger groups. I propose that my proposals be voted separately. And at least those relating to the free use of urban and long-distance transport should be considered by the national representation. And if you decide to cut your wages, that would be a good sign to the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u246	Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u247	Thank you, Madam President. I think I should take the floor, at least as President of the National Assembly. I know that this topic is very sensitive, I know that it is sensitive to every Bulgarian citizen, and this topic has sounded in this Chamber many, many years back. In 2017, the former Minister of Finance had said that a revision of a new wage model in the state administration will be started at the first meeting of the National Assembly, unfortunately, we have not seen such a model until today. What Mrs. Manolova is proposing, I do not know if she is aware of how the public administration's remuneration is determined at all and at all in the state. There has been a Decision No 240 since 1990 which determines the salary of the Prime Minister, the Minister, the chairmen of agencies to the chairmen of committees and the President of the Grand National Assembly. Unfortunately, this is the decision that has not been reviewed and is being applied to this day. Also a decision of the Grand National Assembly to determine the President's salary, which is tied to the salaries of the Members of the National Assembly. From there, you know, all the laws are tied up and the salaries of all the regulatory authorities in the country are fixed. What really needs to be done outside of any populism is really reconsider these salaries, and we are here to make a serious commitment that we are going to sit down and broadcast people who understand this thing. I see Mr. Ananiev against me, and I think it is high time that this happened, because it is not even permissible for members of regulatory bodies to receive a salary determined by the salaries of the President of the National Assembly, a MP, to be tied to the salaries of ministers in percentage. This has to end. A truly unified approach must be found to determine how these salaries will be determined and how they will vary. I and the Commission have told them that I have prepared letters and I believe that we can decide either on my behalf or on behalf of the chairman of the committee concerned, for example on constitutional and legal issues, to send requests to all regulatory authorities, to all executive bodies, to respond to what remuneration they received last year, including additional material stimulus, including clothes money, in order to be able to see the real picture. What is currently and in the public administration is being observed, I have given for example the Regulation on the determination of remuneration in the public administration. Under this regulation, the lowest position for a junior expert ranges from 700 to 1600 BGN. You want to tie the MPs' salary in a parliamentary republic with the salary of a junior public administration expert. Yes, the fact is that there are many employees in the administration, especially in the local administration, who have even lower salaries. This is shameful, and I think that this really needs to be reviewed too. The fact is that we, with many laws and with many commitments, have burdened many employees in the administration. Here I will set an example with the Social Services Act. Social workers are very busy with many commitments, at the same time they are really very miserable salaries. You know for yourself, Mrs. Manolova, that in the Commission, when we looked at the law then, and Mr. Ademov, I see that the social workers themselves said: "Well, we will leave and become personal assistants. Why do we have to work as social workers? ".. It is not the idea to end this country and to close all institutions because, agree that if the President of the National Assembly, the President and the Prime Minister receive 1500 BGN each, how much will they receive down the chain. Well, an expert will get 200. 300 leva. It's just how wages are formed in the country. I would also like to say that the MPs, including the ministers, including the President, they do not receive additional material incentives, they do not have attestations, they do not have an increase in wages. This thing, you know, if you even know the Civil Service Act and the Labour Code, you have an attestation every year and an increase in the state payroll administration by up to 20% annually. Not only that, you have additional material stimulus on a quarter, in this case in the National Assembly, for the staff of the National Assembly. So when such proposals are made, they must be made so as to reflect on what consequences this will lead to. Here I appeal to everyone to really start thinking about this new model for determining the remuneration in the whole country, the local administration, the central administration, because I assure you that in the administration, including in the ministries, including in the National Assembly, you have a difference in wages between experts with the same position from 600 to 1000 BGN. That's unacceptable. So we need to eliminate this march, this disproportion in pay, and we need to raise the salaries that are very low, to all those people who really work conscientiously in administration and perform their duties. I also set an example the other day that the salaries of the Secretary-General in the National Assembly and in the Council of Ministers and in other institutions are higher than the Prime Minister, President of the National Assembly and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u249	It is also unacceptable for employees to have salaries higher than the authority that manages them. So I really appeal and appeal very sincerely to stop with this populism, and to really start working in this direction and make sure that everyone's wages are fair and fair. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from IHN, IBGNI, BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. For a line, Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u251	Madam President, honourable Members! I know that when it comes to salaries and the privileges of the people's representation, [[noise and lines]] , draw arguments from 10 wells. Yeah, I'm familiar with the legal base. I do not think that the example of personal assistants was particularly appropriate to sound from this parliamentary tribune. I will not enter into this dispute because for the Bulgarian citizens who receive 700 BGN. salary, this dispute is really quite hypocritical and absurd. In fact, what everyone sees is their pay slip, which they get every month. Since both you and we have seen our tickets, it is unnecessary to talk about BGN 1,600, adding all the allowances and other privileges that the other civil servants do not receive. But I leave the vote on this subject to the assessment of each Member of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mrs. Miteva, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u253	I said yesterday in the Commission that I am ready to announce my ticket as President of the National Assembly in the 45th Parliament, even now what I have received, but it is not for a full month to see that I, as director of the Directorate, have received higher remuneration than as President of Parliament. [[Long applause from IHN, IBGNI, BSP for Bulgaria, DPS.]] Not just that. I call on and ask the journalists and all those who write on this topic to make a Day of the National Assembly and a Day of the President of the National Assembly from morning until evening, with all the commitments, with plenary, and to see if this populism and this sounding will sound that way. Thank you. [[Long applause from IHN, IBGNI, BSP for Bulgaria, DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-05.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Are there any other speeches? There are no other speeches. With that, I think we've run out of agendas. Let's vote. We vote on the Financial Rules of the National Assembly budget as presented by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Manolova's first proposal under art. Five votes now. Vote 148 MPs: 8 against 109, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mrs. Manolova's next proposal under art. 10. Vote 149 MPs: 11 against 105, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the texts proposed by the Commission at once, all of them. They voted 167 MPs: 161, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. With that, I think we're done with today's work. [[PHONE RINGING]]
