ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! We've been on biometrics since yesterday, so please, registration mode. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] My fellow Members, under a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents and under my orders from yesterday to convene today's sitting, I will allow myself to read to you the Programme for the Work of our plenary sitting today: "1." Draft decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. Adopted in the first vote on 23 April 2021 We move to the first point of the so-read program: PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION AND CLEARANCE OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE ACTION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In today's National Assembly will consider amendments to the Election Code, which is very important for the whole country, which is why I am also making a proposal for direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u3	Thank you, Mr. Popov. There's no other offer. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Popov for direct transmission on BNT and BNR. Vote 204 MPs: 173 against 2, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Please direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. A declaration from a group, please, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u4	Dear Bulgarian citizens, events took place yesterday that led to different interpretations and we think all of them are wrong. Yesterday morning, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria did not support the agenda and we were immediately defined as the status quo, the bad behind-the-scenes, the new Triple Coalition DPS, GERB, BSP, which stop the path of progress. In the afternoon, we voted together with the "Democratic Bulgaria" and the change in the judiciary and closing of the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office, and immediately we were defined as the new OF quote: "BSP and Sorosoids cover criminals, closing the court and prosecution according to who is more cryptic." Dear Bulgarians, many wondered where he was and who BSP was in this complex situation in Bulgaria. Of course, everyone can have their own opinions, but no one can have their own facts, they're the same. BSP are the only ones in this Parliament who did not turn away from what we were doing for four years and what we promised you before the elections. Firstly, our priority is the health crisis, incomes, poverty, job retention, protection of people's rights, aid to the economy, and we have introduced these laws, and we have not put them on the agenda, and that is why we have not supported it. Second, breakdown of Borisov's model. We have introduced the Public Finance Act to stop the promiscuous spending of the Jeep money, but this law is not being watched to this day. Thirdly, order and rules in the state and the return of parliamentaryism. These proposals must be made through the budget update in order to have money for pensions, salaries, education and health care. We also don't look at this proposal. Fourth, the fight against corruption. The closure of the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office have been our priorities for at least three years. I recall that we were against it when they were created and we stood up for this position to this day, and that is why we voted this way yesterday. We have voted, but also the Democratic Bulgaria..... were also for this... well, their work. We follow our agenda, our programme and our promises. What happened? It turns out that after yesterday's reaction, our social laws will be included and viewed in the Budget Committee at the next meeting. The update of the budget will take place at the next meeting of the Budget Committee or will begin this process at which the Minister of Finance will attend and these topics will be discussed. Why did we have to come this far so that Parliament could start working on the most important priorities, not for our party interests, but for those of the people and the state?! We want to state categorically that we will not blindly follow the new political subjects in parliament, because they have taken the right to be the change, nor GERB, because they are the embodiment of the behind-the-scenes and the model we have been fighting for four years, nor the DPS, who believe they can pull the strings as they decide. BSP is not an empty check for everyone to use as they see fit. BSP are consistent and principled! In this, the National Assembly has priorities and we follow them regardless of which other parliamentary group votes, and they are: breakdown of the Borisov model to the end, measures for the people and for the economy, order and rules in the state and Election Code for a transparent and fair process. Anyone who needs our support is welcome to discuss it in a reasonable dialogue, and anyone who does not need us should follow his agenda, but let him know that we will not allow this to happen on the back of the BSP, at the expense of the authority of the BSP and the people who follow us! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Stanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u6	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! I am using the National Assembly stands to tell you some undisputed facts which the whole of Bulgaria saw yesterday and understood. The first fact yesterday the parliamentary groups of GERB, BSP and DPS did not accept the proposed agenda of the parliamentary meeting and meeting so there was no meeting. The second fact is that all the MPs in this House have been sent to work, to legislate, to repatriate, to offer ideas [[noise and lines]] , to offer solutions in the name and in the interests of the Bulgarian people, not to sabotage the MP's own work assigned to him by the Bulgarian Constitution. Third fact from yesterday at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers in resignation, led by the Prime Minister in resignation Boyko Metodiev Borisov why from his home in Bankya and not in the Council of Ministers [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "He is in hospital. "]] , and this same prime minister in resignation said the following: Do you see the contradiction in that statement? Mr. Borisov, it was your parliamentary group yesterday in co-operation that stopped the work of the parliament. This is such a controversial logical statement by Mr. Borisov that if anyone finds logic in him, colleagues, he should be nominated for the Nobel Prize for Logic, and you know that such a prize does not exist! I would like to ask two questions: how does the Political Party?There is such a people to work fully in parliament, which is not behind-the-scenes, but here in plenary, yesterday sabotaged its main function? The second question is: how was the political party expected to accept the false support of 165 MPs, as Mr. Borisov said 165 are his words?! This support is impossible to accept, because it is a pseudo-support and there is such a people that would immediately become hostage to all 165 MPs. Let's add the fact that there is such a people in its election application told Bulgarian citizens that it will not work with the so-called parties of the status quo. For the finale, I want to tell you a thought that more than you know, I guess, because they're smart people. It belongs to one of the world's largest politicians, Winston Churchill, and he says: "Don't be content to be a smoke when you can be a fire! " Have a good job, guys! [[Applause from ICN and ISV.]] Thank you, Mr. Stanev. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u7	Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday we voted against the agenda for several reasons. The least important of them is that we are not part of the majority in this Parliament and it is normal to express our disagreement with the agenda proposed by the current parliamentary majority. The fact that the current parliamentary majority has not been able to negotiate at some point is not our problem at all, and it is yours. Obviously yesterday, however, you negotiated because I see that two points on yesterday's agenda are no longer on the table. The first point is for the Rosenets. Let's see who's squatting for Rosenets, first. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Secondly, there is no point for the political parties and for the reduction of the subsidy from 8 to 1 BGN. Now, let me ask you, who squatted for the grant and to whom? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The more important reason why we voted against this agenda, however, is that we do not agree that this is the agenda of the Bulgarian society. We see the powerful legislation that is produced per kilogram of the brotherhood of the honorable. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS]] , and we are extremely worried about what can happen to the state. First, item one on the agenda of the Bulgarian society is currently the choice of the Council of Ministers. You abdicated yesterday from this commitment to the Bulgarian people. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] You have not proposed a structure, a composition, or a programme to a new government. On the other hand, you have proposed legislation that will cost the roughest calculations between 10 billion and 15 billion. lv. to Bulgarian taxpayers, without it being clear who will implement it, who will govern these laws, which provide for very substantial changes in both the budget and any spheres of the state. You want us to change the Election Code with full awareness that the elections are likely to be in just two months. You want us to adopt laws per kilogram that serve you only and only for the upcoming election campaign to explain to people how many things you have proposed, but how they have not been adopted, because that is probably what will happen because there will be no time, but at the same time you are making some very radical changes in the judiciary, for example. It has already been adopted by the Legal Commission to dismiss the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office without public consultation, without consulting the European institutions, because I will remind you that these bodies were established after in 2009 the European institutions recommended that they be created. In 2012 they were established, in 2016 they were developed with new legislation again after a report by European prosecutors, in 2018 the monitoring of Bulgaria in the part of the organized crime fight................................ They are currently dealing with cases involving very severe and serious oligarchs, as well as representatives of serious organised crime. And here I ask: who benefits from stopping these cases? Is the brotherhood of the honorable to return some favor at the moment to someone who needs to be paid back the money that has been seized or confiscated because he can't prove it and can't prove their origins? [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Did you guys have some kind of commitment or something? How is there such a severe judicial reform in three days, I ask, since you yourself have adopted the new rules to have a text saying that there should be a public discussion that there should be an impact assessment, that non-governmental organisations should be included? Which non-governmental organizations were involved in this public discussion, which we did not realize happened? What are you doing? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because it feels like you're making a coup! You are making a coup both with the Election Code and with the closure of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Specialized Court. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] During the Election Code you are trying to increase your rates. But how? And you won't do it most likely, because you don't have that kind of intellectual potential. [[Replications, applause by GERB-SDS.]] How do you try to increase your rates? By transferring the CEC to the presidential candidate five months before the presidential election. Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed of what you're doing? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I ask Mr. Radev, isn't he ashamed of the situation you're putting him in? I don't know if you guys got along, but you probably got along because he's not talking. Two months before the election, you're doing this. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "Do not talk about issues on the agenda! "]] Yes, I will comply with your request. We'll talk about it later. However, what you are doing is visible from everyone. Do not think that it will not be understood by the Bulgarian people. He's not as stupid as you think, and that's why he put you in second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth place because he's not stupid. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And whoever thinks they can lie to him with such mooshings that they can fool him with some kind of legislation that could mask what's actually happening in the back has gone very wrong. You're not fooling anyone. Everyone sees you. And in the last three days you have seen how much courage you have, how much you desire, how much responsibility it is to rule the state, as you otherwise explained long and wide before that. That's why you don't have a government right now. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because if there was a braver man in your party and he was your leader, I'm talking about a people like that, you'd probably be broadcasting a government and you'd be looking for support. At least you'd be looking for a conversation, checking out what's going on, doing it in public, not from some couch somewhere. You'd be acting responsible if you'd come in here for something important, not for agreeing with this guy and that guy doing this and that without making this public. We will continue to be constructive opposition to this majority of over 160 MPs. We call on you, if you want to make changes, if you want to make reforms, with the third term of office, one of the political forces that has not yet taken a mandate to propose a government and then, when there is a finance minister, ask for a financial justification for your proposals to make an impact assessment and then reform and not before. First the first task, and it is the political government to be elected first, and then do everything else and bear responsibility, and do not hide behind the irresponsibility of a majority that is gathering today, tomorrow is falling apart and the next day is gathering again, on the base, I repeat, of unknown compromises. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u8	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mrs. Vassileva's manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u9	Honourable Members, Madam President! Please very much do not allow the microphone of the National Assembly to be used for speech deception and for telling honest lies. [[Applause from ICN, DB and ISV.]] The colleague Bikov apparently even after his long stay in the National Assembly does not yet know how the agenda of the National Assembly is formed. I don't know if you're talking to your representatives who are attending the Chairman's Council, but to tell such honest lies here how someone has drawn a item from the agenda....just look at the basis on which today's meeting is called. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I understand you don't like everything that's going on. It will continue to dislike you, but fortunately, we are not sent here to do what you like. [[Applause from ICN, DB and ISV.]] We will do what Bulgarian citizens need. [[Applause from ICN, DB and ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u10	Mrs. Vassileva! Mr. Hadjigenov for a statement on behalf of the Stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u11	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The trouble of the disrespectful we of Stand up! GERB out! Yesterday we supported the agenda, despite the fact that the important points for us that we promised our voters, such as pensions, KEWRC, support for business, partly health reform were taken off the agenda. However, what we would like to draw attention to is our view of what happened yesterday is the removal from the agenda of the establishment of a temporary committee to investigate the police violence of the protests last year on 2 September and 10 July. On these two dates, known as bloody Wednesday, specifically for September 2nd, were beaten, tortured, gassed Bulgarian citizens. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Most of you, I guess, are away from the criminal trial, and better. Perhaps none of you have asked yourself what is the former Interior Minister doing, responsible for this particular violence, in this Chamber? He's sitting over there. The reason he's here is to be hidden. The reason why yesterday the agenda of them was blaming...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u12	He's been chosen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u13	The reason why he is here among us is that none of them wants a temporary committee of the National Assembly to investigate why the janitors of GERB would, tortured, detained, dragged Bulgarian citizens to school, children, youth, women, elderly people. Why? Why? That's exactly why he's there. That's the reason. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u14	Mr. Hadjigenov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u15	This is the reason why the temporary committee was taken off the agenda. And yes, we supported the agenda, and yes, we're here to do the things we don't like, we're here to do the things that we're here to do, which includes Stand up! GERB out! We're here for a reason. We promised the Bulgarian citizens to remove Borisov. This is done. Now we have to move forward. Yesterday something happened that few appreciated, namely through the Legal Committee passed the specialized courts. That's an important fact. And to explain to you, especially the middle part of the room, what lobbying is, is when your chief prosecutors are preparing bills that increase the weapons in the hands of the prosecution. The same increase arms holding weapons in the Ministry of Interior, which are then used against the Bulgarian citizens, after which these same people blame the establishment of a temporary commission. Why? You all predict that this Parliament is from today until tomorrow most likely, and yet they are afraid. Well, I want to tell you, we weren't afraid to face you for 116 days. We're not scared now either. And if you think that the new elections will save you from the anger of the Bulgarian citizens, not retribution, not rematchism, it is GERB, no, justice is called, cruelly mistaken. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from ICN, DB and ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. For a personal explanation? Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u17	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I would like to support the speech of my colleague, Toma Bikov, because Mr. Hadzhigenov's statement proved his thesis that with different topics you are trying to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u18	But that's not a personal explanation anymore. You're entitled to a personal explanation. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u19	Here we go. Yeah, I'm gonna say it right now, just to get started. Be patient. ...you're trying to divert the subject from the real agenda. As always, especially you, use the police, use the Ministry of Interior for your political aspirations, for your political greed. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] On September 2, I think the whole Bulgarian society witnessed... And not only on 2 September, almost all the time of the protests, including you, these were coffins, these were black flags, gallows, burning, I don't know how many more things to list that humiliated all the policemen who were there. They humiliated them in front of their families, their children, in front of the Bulgarian society. If you really are for democracy, if you really are for working institutions, you must come out here from this tribune and declare that you do not support such actions against democracy, against the people who protect democracy. The police are there to protect democracy. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I've been a cop my whole life. I've done this for 90% of the people who stay here. You saw before the Presidency yesterday that the police did the same for the newly represented political power here in Parliament.......................that is their job...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u20	Your time is up, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u21	These are the modern heroes. And if they weren't there, at their post...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u22	Mr. Marinov, your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u23	... at the moment there would be a civil war in Bulgaria, Mr. Hadjigenov [[(bourn applause and cheering) (bravo!) by GERB-SDS)]] And I want you to apologize to these people here, from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u24	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria. [[Heckling]] You can't personally explain yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u25	Colleagues, in these hours about two thousand years ago, the question was asked: what is true? Each of us will look and in these days, I suppose that in all the days of our lives, an answer to this question, but in these days we have too many reasons to see what is a lie. We see the acting prime minister, though resigned, becoming a machine of false news. False news is, as Borisov said at least three times, that parliament has raised its salaries and that "Democratic Bulgaria" has anything to do with it. [[Heckling]] We'll get to Rosenets! This is false news and I am ashamed of your silence because you know that there is nothing true about it. I see another false story here that someone is squatting for the Rosenets. By the way, it is interesting that you care about Rosenets after having had one year after these events in parliament and did nothing. It's really interesting why you didn't do anything to investigate all these events? By the way, I observe an interesting evolution in you.. You have found the value of compliance with the Rules, the value of good legislation and, so to speak, the careful approach to all procedures. You have recently discovered the importance of the rights of the parliamentary minority, although there is no majority and cannot be in this Parliament until there is no government. It's a commendable evolution. You will also find out why it is really important not the police who are on the street, but the Interior Minister to be responsible for what the police are using. And I hope when you find this thing, it doesn't have to be bad. I'll do my best not to let that happen. But it is really important that the cases of police violence against journalists, against protesters, are actually investigated, not as you did. And that's why I assure you there will be a committee for the Rosenets and a commission for violence. We haven't stopped dealing with everything that's related to the Rosenets. The last thing that happened was that the beach was registered as a beach. Something that the institutions under your control have not done so far for so many years. And all the other elements of this case will be put in the legal order. I see you also find the importance of how justice is legalized. I would like to call on you to really close down the specialized courts and the special prosecutor's office. You claim that they were created in fulfillment of some recommendations. There may have been recommendations, but certainly no one imagined that Bulgaria would create a series of instruments, a series of instruments for electoral repression. And I want to tell you that the closure of these courts and these prosecutions, the limitation of the head prosecutor's controllessness, the removal of the Attorney General's ability to use the Witness Protection Bureau as his personal Praetorian Guard will also be a gift to many of you. Because it's not about someone being able to deviate from justice, it's about having equal justice for everyone, it's about having a conventional justice that applies to each of us, according to the same law. Not according to who is in power and who is opposition, not according to whether Tsvetanov is part of the majority or has sharply moved to the extra-parliamentary opposition. And some of you have learned that lesson already. I hope no one else has to learn this lesson in Bulgaria, and that is why my call is: there is a public consensus that these bats will be closed. Let's close them down and not make this cheap politics. Because it is for the good of every Bulgarian to have one law for all. So I can assure you that a committee for the "Rosenets" will be submitted on Wednesday and will have the opportunity to really take a clear view of it. If you are as concerned as you are now, you suddenly got up after the elections, you will have the opportunity to support the composition and support a better proposal for a decision on this committee. There will be a Committee on Violence. These bodies will work professionally and provide answers to questions that Bulgarian society never received until you had a majority. Again, I would like to ask: why so many months in the previous parliament, having a majority, did you not create a Commission for the Rosenets and for violence against protesters? Now you're concerned?! Maybe Mr. Bikov knows more about squatting than he wants to say, doesn't he? [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]] But I would like very seriously outside, so to speak, the reality that we are all already moving towards an election campaign, again to call on you: support the elimination of the existence of uncontrolled repression bodies, which are used to apply electoral repression in Bulgaria. Let us not make this cheap policy, let us ensure that in Bulgaria there will be one justice for all, one law for all. This is a really important goal. Let's face it, we need to do this thing. To argue exactly how to do this is important so that good legislation can be obtained. But let's not make this a policy, because God forbid any of us on our own have to learn the mistake if we haven't done it this time. Thank you. [[Lowered applause from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The way you're leading it? Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group is standing up! Gourmets out!???????????????????????????????????????????????????????
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u28	What is the manner of conduct, Mr. Hadjigenov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u29	Last sentence, Madam President. The families of the policemen were with us in the square. Their superiors were driving...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u30	Mr. Hadjigenov, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u31	...to beat the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u32	Thank you. We're done with the declarations. From the DPS? A statement? [[Noise and lines.]] There's no such thing, we haven't started. What's your procedure? Ah, and you in the manner of conduct. I hope to understand the specific violation I've committed?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u33	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u34	Yeah, okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u35	My procedure is with you. Please, there are people in the room, first, no masks. The situation is such that we all have to wear masks and I haven't heard you make a remark to anyone so far. One. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u36	I see they're wearing masks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u37	Second, I can tell Mr. Hadjigenov that he forgot his slingshot.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u38	Mr. Valev, I never understood your procedure in the manner of conduct? Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, Mr. Hadjigenov. Please, now procedures... Let's start on the agenda. [[Noise and lines.]] Moving on to item one of the agenda... PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION AND CLEARANCE OF THE RULES FOR THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING Please put on all your masks. I see all my colleagues are wearing masks. Mr. Hadzhigenov, I think there are health authorities, there is a law, so let the relevant authorities take appropriate legal measures and impose appropriate penalties on the MPs. Thank you. The sitting is transmitted directly, so I think there is no problem with taking appropriate action. Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament last week, we adopted a decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After carefully familiarizing ourselves with the transcripts, it has been found that the name of the draft decision and the basis has not been voted on, so I am voting on the decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the text previously adopted pursuant to the Commission Report. Please vote on the name and basis of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u39	Ah, speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u40	All right, statements, Mrs. Atanasova, if you think that... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, okay. Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote. They voted 179 MPs: 130, none, abstention 49. The proposal is adopted, with this and we conclude this item on the agenda. We move on to a second vote on: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u41	Honourable Members, we are beginning the discussion on the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. Let me draw your attention to the fact that some of the proposals are left without consideration on the grounds of art. 84, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 82, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not reading them. I am only reading the texts which the Commission has examined, on which there is a vote and on which proposals have been made. Here you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I will present to you: On 15 April 2021, submitted by Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 23 April 2021. "Ideas for amendment and supplement of the electoral code (prom., SG No. ...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u43	Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Do you have statements on the title? They voted 133 MPs: 132, none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Tsvetkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u44	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the request of many citizens from the towns with district division and from the districts in the capital, I have submitted a proposal for amendments to the Election Code, providing for the restoration of the selection of district councillors in the cities with district division. There is also a six-month period for public debate, discussion and adoption of changes to the CSMA and other laws regulating their specific powers. Already in cities with district division, on a proposal and with a decision of the MPs from BSP, was restored and successfully functioning the restored direct choice of district mayors. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] More and more citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u45	Mr. Tsvetkov, please take the floor as per procedure. Tell me the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u46	The procedure is as follows. In a double standard, some Members of the National Assembly have already rejected the proposal for a change to the Election Code, and the proposal that I support to restore the direct choice of voting in small towns from 350 to 100 people, we accepted it. This, in my opinion, is a double standard, so I wanted to motivate why all the proposals I have made and are very much on the text concern two simple things: one is restoring the direct choice of district councilors in cities with district division. And the second is a six-month period in which after a public debate to regulate their powers. I demand a vote in the draft we are reading on amendments to the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u47	Okay, I understand the procedure. Mr. Tsvetkov has the scope of the bill adopted at first reading. It concerns exclusively the parliamentary elections that awaits us, so in this case, art. 84, para. 2 is fully applicable I have announced that all these proposals, which are left unattended to the Commission, will not be read in this House. You have the opportunity from the stands to properly announce to the media everything you have foreseen in the Law and to promote it. Here you are, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u48	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u49	That's the name, and we voted it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u50	Paragraph 1 (c) is replaced by the following: 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u51	For art. 7 is: all are left unattended on the
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u52	It's an importer. I suggest I read those who have dropped out so that there are no mistakes. Mrs. Chairman suggested I jump over them, but we'll do it in a row.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u53	No, we're not going in a row. All of them under art. 84, or we won't read them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u54	Paragraph 1 shall be by importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u55	Well, you don't have it in the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u56	There he is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u57	Where? He's gone. This is also unveiled under art. 84, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u58	No, Boris Tsvetkov's proposal has not been considered.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u59	Well, you should be hurting him. The words in art. 7, para. 1 The territory of the country is divided into..... is replaced by.......................................................... is replaced by............................................................................................ Is that your text? Well, you should've bled it! [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u60	Well, I don't hurt them. [[Noise and excitement.]] The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's right. The importer shall not be subject to proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u61	Voting mode. Vote 141 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 38. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u62	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u63	Which reads: "Art. 11, para. 2 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u64	Do you want me to read them?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u65	Yeah. What we're going to accept should be read. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Do you have any comments? Okay. I'm canceling the voting regime. Please come in for a statement under § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u66	Dear Madam President, ill, unholy things, when something is voted on, you should be able to make speeches. In principle, is there any statement accepted?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u67	All right, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u68	If there are no speeches then. You automatically move to a vote that is not very appropriate. A little about authoritarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u69	Are there any other statements under § 2? I won't. Please, voting mode. Vote 138 MPs: 99, none, abstention 39. Paragraph 2 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u70	.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A sentence 12 first is finally added on the basis of the aggregated data under Art. 12. Madam President wants us to read the texts to the importer as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u71	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to bring some clarity to the report. The importer's proposals shall not be read. Only the final version of the Commission, the unsupported proposals of the Members of the National Assembly and the proposals in the case of Boris Tsvetkov are reported, reading from below, did not consider it and the reason on which the Commission did not consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u73	Paragraph 3. Read the text to be voted on. Do you have any statements under § 3? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] By § 2 we announced and ended the vote. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] You want a re-vote? Okay. Come in for a re-vote. Make your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u74	Mrs. Chairman! As part of the colleagues failed to vote on the wording of § 2 due to confusion in the presentation of the Report, I ask for a procedure for revoting § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u75	Okay. I'm going to rethink § 2. They voted 209 MPs: for 101, against 64, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u76	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u77	Paragraph 3 statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode. They voted 213 MPs: 105 against 70, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines from IHN.]] I don't see any demand for re-voting. Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u78	We're proposing a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u79	Please, re-election mode. Vote 219 MPs: 107 against 70, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u80	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 4 by proposing to add a title to the formation of polling stations outside the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u81	Besides Mr. Enchev, are there any other people who would like to speak? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u82	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In 2016, the Forty-third National Assembly decided: in countries outside the European Union, the number of polling stations to be limited to 35 sections in a country. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u83	Just a second, Mr. Enchev. Please be quiet in the room to listen to the arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u84	This proposal on the Patriotic Front was supported by the GERB party and then the Reformation Block. However, at the initiative of the party, there is such a nation today being proposed in the Election Code to return to the old pre-2016 situation, which envisages reducing the number of requests needed to open polling stations outside the European Union to 40, as well as to create automatic sections if at the previous elections in the last five years there has been at least one section in which they voted no less than 100 voters. My fellow Members, my question is one thing. This question is now being asked tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens: who serves this proposal? It must be answered immediately: it serves the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Reply from DPS.]] It brings the Republic of Turkey back as a decisive factor in the Bulgarian electoral process! [[Radio.]] It allows Ankara to be a broker in the Bulgarian Parliament in the Forty-Fiveth Bulgarian Parliament. Again, I ask you: why do you, honourable Members, give this electoral gift to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Ivanov, Mrs. Manolova?! Are you really going to press the green button and allow the Turkish state to have a decisive word in the electoral process in Bulgaria? I also appeal to the MPs from the party.There is such a people: will you obey this decision of your leaders, which is anything but nationally responsible? Do you realize what the unlimited disclosure of polling stations in a country where democracy is a foreign word, women's rights are a myth, and prisons are full of journalists?! Dear colleagues, in this country they don't even give a chair to a president of the European Commission to sit as equals to President Erdogan! The Turkish President refuses a chair to the President of the European Commission just because he is a woman, and you will now give him the uncontrollably right to determine the number of polling stations in Turkey, the number of votes in them and ultimately to take up residence in this room! If this National Assembly accepts the suspension of the limitation on the number of polling stations in countries outside the European Union, then in the next elections, the upcoming elections, the open sections in Turkey are only 40 applications, there could be hundreds, and the tens of thousands voted in them! Many of these voters, honourable Members, have no bearing on life in Bulgaria and you know it well. In their vote, they do not exercise their free will, but are manipulated almost as feudal possession of a party, let me say its name From there, from Turkey, thousands of voices of so-called dead souls can also come, which are no longer held in the Bulgarian CITY and cannot be verified. On 4 April this year, honourable Members, thanks to the cameras of Bulgarian observers in Turkey, we saw how in sections, in violation of the requirement to fill out the declarations in person, declarations of people, neither speaking nor writing in Bulgarian. Do you, MPs of the "There is such a people" realize what you will support in a moment with the drop of the limit on the number of sections in the Republic of Turkey? And if you realize that, aren't you ashamed of what you're going to do? What really happened to your long-standing play with the patriotic feelings of thousands of your sympathizers, thanks to which you earned more than half a million votes? Were your concerts with revival songs really just a decoy? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I appeal to the MPs from GERB and "Democratic Bulgaria" with many of whom we know well in 2016 you voted for the limit to 35 polling stations. Why, honourable colleagues from GERB party and "Democratic Bulgaria" party, then you placed this reasonable limit on the number of sections, and now you are serving the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u85	First see how I vote and then!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u86	The weather, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u87	I apologize. If you hold on to your principles and beliefs, protected five years ago, what broke you, so now you're going to vote on your conscience? I hope I'm wrong in those words. In a nutshell, I'm gonna finish. Do not let the party directive stand higher than national interests! And before you vote on this text, I mostly address this part of the House (GERB-SDS and DB), please ask yourself once again: who is it profitable? Don't you see that Turkey wins and Bulgaria loses? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u88	For a speech or a line? Maya Manolova was before you. [[(Reply by National Representative Tosko Yordanov:]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u89	Dear Bulgarian citizens who watch on TV, I am happy that it is broadcast to see political hypocrisy in parliament. There is no thought for you here, there is hypocrisy here, you will probably see a majority of GERB and BSP. I am happy that all Bulgarians who live in Britain, in Canada, in the United States, who are over a million, understand how some people forbid you to vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u90	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u91	And it was uniquely stupid to focus like Turks would vote. That's where the accent is. In fact, we are talking about Bulgarian citizens who are around the world. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u92	Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u93	Like a line. I hope that Bulgarian citizens in Britain, the United States of America and distant Australia are watching us at this time. They'll understand. This is about the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. It's about a controlled vote. It is about the interests of Bulgarian citizens who have no interest. Here, in this House, to be sent to the next parliamentary elections, people elected personally by President Erdogan, people elected personally by a regime that has been condemned by all democratic Europe; a regime that you know of, I will repeat once again the prisons with journalists who do not respect human rights, which pursues democratic protests in the territory of the Republic of Turkey! Let's remember what happened in a park in downtown Istanbul. Again, in this country, women have no human rights! We saw him once again with the attitude towards European Commission President Ursula von der Lyon. So, our dear friends, the UK, the United States of America and Australia, you need to understand why we are going to vote against. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u94	Mrs. Manolova, come in for a statement. Any other requests for speeches? I saw Mr. Babikan and my colleague from "Democratic Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u95	Ladies and gentlemen! With this vote, the masks fell! [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] It became clear with the vote on the previous text.. about the restrictive regime of Bulgarians abroad, the masks fell. It is clear which political forces are afraid of the free vote of Bulgarians abroad. It is clear which political forces are and we will make sure that this is made clear to our compatriots abroad: who does not want the Bulgarians in Western Europe, in America and everywhere in the world to vote; who is afraid; who is betting on a controlled vote; who is betting on pressure; who is betting on buying votes?! [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "Who?") Who?]] You're scared, you're scared! Because if Bulgarians abroad vote, it will completely change the political picture in Bulgaria. And the parties, I will not characterize them, let them put their own assessment on those who are afraid of free will, defend the status quo with teeth and claws! A little fact, because what sounded from the parliamentary tribune just now is definitely not true. I'm just gonna say it's untrue. The facts are as follows: in 2013, when there was the same restrictive regime that you imposed, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, and which is in force in the Election Code, 117 thousand people abroad voted, of which, note, 67 thousand in Turkey against 40 thousand in Western Europe and America, under the most restrictive voting regime, under the Code, made under the leadership of Mrs. Fidosova, which is no longer here and supported by GERB. In 2014 the Code we developed then and which was then supported by the Left, I ask: why is he now giving up his vote then, who opened the door for Bulgarians abroad? [[Applause from ISV and ICN.]] Under the 2014 Election Code, a record number of Bulgarians were voted abroad, of which 145,000 people, of which, notice, in Turkey, 63 thousand, i.e. 4,000 less than the restrictive regime in 2013. But in Western Europe they voted for the first time thanks to these sections 82 thousand 500 Bulgarians. In other words, the restrictions in the form of sections do not affect or affect the vote in Turkey and this is proven by facts! Stop lying from this tribune! The restrictions in the sections only and only restrict the free vote of the Bulgarians in Western Europe and in America. In the last election, our compatriots in Britain, in Germany, in Chicago were lining up for tens of hours and finally could not exercise their right to vote. Twice as many sections have been requested than they have been opened. In Britain and America, twice as much. Aren't you ashamed in front of the Bulgarians abroad, in front of those who wanted to give their vote in the parliamentary elections? Personally, if there are no changes to this Election Code, I will be ashamed of the parties that will limit the vote of Bulgarians abroad. This retreat, this restrictive regime, indeed, is a disgrace to the forty-fiveth National Assembly! In my capacity as Ombudsman, I opposed the cutting of sections for Bulgarians abroad, against these 35 sections for Bulgarians in the UK! How will you look them in the eye? With what eyes will you go to campaign in Britain?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u96	Don't talk to me about Britain. You don't know how I'm gonna vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u97	Or just like you, when you look in the mirror, you see something else, like the people in Britain asked you. This text has already been voted on if you do not understand. You cut off the opportunity of Bulgarians abroad to vote, and that is shameful! [[Applause from ISV and ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u98	- What's the line? I call on this House to observe order and silence. And I am uncomfortable not to make a remark, but just to look at you, Mrs. Karayancheva. You understand what I'm saying, don't you? [[Noise, Applause from ISV and ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u99	All right, Mrs. Doncheva, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u100	Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u101	Mrs. Manolova, I ask you very much, in your speech, you should have made it clear on several occasions that I am talking about countries that are not members of the European Union and not members of the European Union. And now the most important part of my line: I don't mind at all in the territory of the Republic of Turkey citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria voting. I am talking about these citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria who neither know how to speak nor can write and fill out declarations outside the polls, which is a gross violation of the law! We have seen this with our own eyes from the direct transmissions of our observers on the territory of the Republic of Turkey. Don't you know which televisions were transmitting to people who neither speak nor read nor understand how they speak Bulgarian?! Do you close your eyes to that fact, Mrs. Manolova? I ask myself: with what eyes do you defend the interests of the Republic of Turkey, you, Mrs. Manolova? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u102	Second line of speech Mr. Georgiev from GERB. I can't see a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Manolova, several times out of this tribune you have called not to lie, however, you, loyal to your nature, have done so several times. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Excuse me, but what is this country in Western Europe where the Bulgarians could not vote? One and only, given the facts and the development of the foreign policy scene, that Britain left the European Union. Several times you said "In Western Europe, Bulgarians can't vote." Where exactly did the Bulgarians in Western Europe fail to vote? Geographic concepts, as you mistake political concepts, clearly do not give in to you, but do not stand here and take advantage of the media cameras to suggest to our compatriots that someone has restricted them. For the first time, even in the conditions of a pandemic, under severe restrictive measures, the Lockdown has revealed an unprecedented number of electoral sections in and outside the countries of the European Union. Each vote, application, declaration for the voter's will to open a section was respected. Despite attempts to restrict Bulgarians abroad, because this election to be on holiday was such an attempt to sabotage the electoral process. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] It is in this direction that another institution works with which you are very close. This was not allowed and the Bulgarians even more, in cash, compared to the previous elections were able to go out and exercise their right to vote again, under the conditions of very severe repressions. This was helped by the Bulgarian government, so the Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs helped, so the Bulgarian administration helped and the electoral process was secured. Not now to click on the phone, but to be careful what you say. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because from this tribune here is where you have to be honest with people. I'm sure the conversation you're having right now is very important, but it certainly doesn't serve people's interests. What's the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u104	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u105	Who serves your interests? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u106	I can't see another line. A hole, Mrs. Manolova. Then Mr. Peykov should alternate the participants in the speeches, as stated in the Rules. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u107	You mistake me, Mr. Georgiev, with members of your parliamentary group who have problems with geography. Not to mention them from this parliamentary tribune. [[Applause from ISV.]] I'll just look at them like Mrs. Doncheva. It's about the Bulgarians in Britain. They had applied for the creation of 87 sections, and they really only had 35. The lines in London were huge. I'll send you videos to see. They stood for hours and finally closed the sections without collecting their IDs and passports so that they could vote. They hoisted all day, all day, and finally they didn't vote. These are Bulgarians, Bulgarian citizens who have exactly the same rights, even though they live in the UK. It's the same way that tails were turned in Chicago. Excuse me, the fear of the free vote of Bulgarians abroad cannot be a reason to limit them to a constitutional right, which says that Bulgarians have the same rights regardless of where they are located abroad or in Bulgaria. I won't comment at all on Mr. Enchev. Your speculation is now shameful. I pulled data in Turkey, regardless of how the sections are formed, there is one ceiling that has been reached as early as 2013 and which is not skipped. At the moment it is about the vote of the Bulgarians in the UK and in the United States and your vote will be decided..................... the vote of the Bulgarians in Western Europe, Britain and America will be decided......................... or not? That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u108	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u109	No forgery or manipulation of the truth will stop us from proving it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u110	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u111	Who doesn't want the Bulgarians abroad to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u112	I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u113	There are statements before you, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u114	For procedure. [[People's representative wants the floor for a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u115	There's no personal explanation, sir. The fact that you're mentioned hasn't affected you at all. There's no harm in commenting on each other. [[Heckling]] It's a de facto backdrop now. It's clear to everyone in this room. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u116	Madam President, I take the floor in the manner of conduct. I ask you to stop the rather shameful debate that is being held in this Chamber. I do not understand what causes the Bulgarian Turks to be fewer citizens than the Bulgarians in Canada. [[Heckling]] What is this opposition?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u117	Mr. Rashidov, you asked for the word in the manner of conduct. You explained what you wanted to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u118	That's right. I want you to end this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u119	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u120	And me, if you ask me, Mrs. Leading Court, is more important to me than those who pay taxes to the English Queen and to someone else, but the Bulgarians who live here and pay taxes for our pensioners. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] What is this debate we're having? Yeah, let them have the right to vote. They have the right to be Bulgarians and Bulgarian citizens, but I do not like to share them with one another. They are the same worthy Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u121	Mr. Rashidov, I only pay attention to you that what you have done was a statement worthy of respect, but not a procedure in the manner of conduct. Let me not cancel the discussion quickly from the first members, because it means that no arguments will be heard. There are requests for speeches on this side. [[Inserts to the parliamentary groups of ICN, ISM.]] Come on in for a procedure. I hope it's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u122	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I appeal to you, Mrs. Doncheva, when some untruths are spoken in this Chamber, to make a remark because there are no Bulgarian Turks in Bulgaria, but there are Turks born in the Republic of Bulgaria. That's my way of doing things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u123	Thank you, colleague. I hope you'll be tolerant to listen to arguments and not be so touchy. A certain sense of humor and a little looking over things has never harmed politics. Here you go, Mr. Peykov, then Mr. Babikan. Other requests for speeches on the text do not see yes, and Mrs. Rupcheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u124	Look, if you had to make a remark when telling the untruths, Mr. Bikov shouldn't have set foot on this stand at all, so please don't abuse the procedure. Secondly, it is not just Britain that is going to be the whole of Europe. In America, people couldn't vote in a fair way, waiting in endless queues. There are people who traveled 1,000 miles to exercise their voice. You started today, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, with words of justice. It is unfair for Bulgarians abroad to be treated differently than Bulgarians who live here. They're an integral part of this country's body. They are the biggest investor in the Bulgarian economy. [[Applause from DB.]] Don't forget that for a moment. These are also lies in Turkey, only six additional sections would have been found if there were no restriction. In the UK, 53 would have been found. [[Applause from DB.]] Please handle facts, not just politicize them. [[Applause DB, BMI, ISV. Noise and lines in GERB-SDS.]] If you do not vote no restrictions on the sections abroad, you are not worthy to take your seats in this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from DB, ICN, ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u125	Mr. Babikan, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I'm very concerned about what I'm hearing in this room today. I have a feeling that there is a conversation not about civil rights, but about which ethnicity is more Bulgarian citizen and who is less. There are only Bulgarian citizens. And if you're going to open 1000 sections in a given country, it's 1,000. If it's 10, it's 10 and don't weigh. All Bulgarian citizens. I'm saying this to make it very clear. Please discuss civil rights, not ethnicities. The fact that someone does not like Recep Erdogan's policy is his question, but it is not a Bulgarian civil issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u127	So what?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u128	This is a matter which should be addressed by the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry. The Bulgarian Turks living in Turkey voted against Erdogan in the local elections both in Istanbul and in Bursa and in Ankara and it is good to know. [[Applause from ISV.]] What do we do with the rights of Bulgarian citizens if we do not like Trump or do we not like Biden? Should we limit them? That is, according to the domestic policy of a country we will decide what the rights of Bulgarian citizens are. If in some African country eat people how to vote Bulgarians? What are we gonna tell them? We're gonna shut down their sections? Please be responsible to Bulgaria, not to your own fantasies about who is attacking us. The revival process is over. We are a NATO member, and so are Turkey. Thank you. [[Applause from ISV, ICN, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u129	Mrs. Rupcheva for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u130	I have a statement to make.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u131	Okay, here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u132	I will be very brief in my line to the honourable Mr. Babikan. Mr. Babikan, how do you know how the Bulgarian citizens voted on the territory of the Republic of Turkey and if you really know how they voted, because the vote is secret, even in the Republic of Turkey, maybe this does not confirm my thesis that there is no secret of the vote on the territory of the Republic of Turkey? [[Replys: "Eee! "]] In fact, my question is, where do you get this information? Would you please provide the source of your information? [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u133	I can't see any other lines. Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u134	Dear Mr. Enchev, there are open sources, as they used to say in your services and are called media from there. [[Applause from ISV, DB and ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u135	Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Once again, we return to the main text related to the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Article 14 is the subject of debate for many years in the Bulgarian National Assembly. For the first time, the opening of sections and voting outside diplomatic and consular representations was introduced in 2006. In 2006, Mrs. Nino, with the votes of the Bulgarian Socialist Party Once again, we share Bulgarian citizens from living in Bulgaria, from living in Member States of the European Union and from living in non-EU countries. I do not know of such a practice in another Member State where their citizens share in principle where they live. Yes, a fundamental principle in most European countries, in general and in countries outside the European Union, is to vote in diplomatic and consular representations. But yes, that's because in these countries you have a postal vote, you have an electronic, remote vote, you have all the possible forms of voting. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Until the electronic remote voting is introduced in Bulgaria, until the post vote is introduced in Bulgaria, it is not permissible to restrict the rights of Bulgarian citizens regardless of where they are in the world. Moreover, with the votes of GERB a mandatory vote was introduced. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 of the Election Code it was written that voting is an obligation and the fulfilment of civil debt. How do these Bulgarian citizens around the world fulfill their civic duty, colleagues? How do they meet the requirement you set for them? The limitation of 35 sections, which was introduced in 2016, was the subject of huge agreements between political parties. There it was on principle: let it be 40, let it be 30, let it be 50, because they voted so much because they voted, we will limit one country, but in others they will not reach them. You can see that in Britain they have reached them and surpassed them. Eighty-eight thousand Bulgarian citizens said they want to vote in Britain! What happened? Because of your restriction, they were deprived of that right. Not only that, the Central Election Commission took and rounded up all the applications of these Bulgarian citizens and scattered them along these possible 35 sections, which it made absolutely categorically in violation of the Election Code. If you are currently opening the CEC website, you will not even be able to see for example Bulgarian citizens from Liverpool that they have applied for Liverpool because there is no section, and they are scattered somewhere in England. I believe that it is absolutely unacceptable to hinder the exercise of the right to vote of Bulgarian citizens. Here and at first reading I paid attention to the fact that obstructing the right to vote in Bulgaria has found its place in the Resolution of the European Parliament of 2020 on the rule of law and human rights. Why we continue to restrict the rights of these Bulgarian citizens when we do not provide them with the alternative way to go and exercise their right to vote. In my opinion, no one in this House can reasonably state a reason other than that we have to limit one country and thus drag all the other countries down. I do not know if you have bothered to look at how many Bulgarian citizens live in such third countries. There are about 76,000 in northern Macedonia; there are about 26,000 in Moldova. Do you think that only Turkey is the problem? [[Heckling]] I don't. I believe that you restrict the rights of the Bulgarian citizens around the world... Britain, America and all other third countries. Again, I call on you: please, let us not restrict the rights of Bulgarian citizens. I hope that all Bulgarian citizens who are around the world who have some obligations to Bulgaria, who have some connection with the country, and most of them do so, will really resent your behaviour. They will be outraged and everyone will go to vote, exercise their right to vote and express their attitude towards you. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u137	Who's gonna speak first?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u138	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that you should have seen it, and if you didn't or if you didn't, and if you forgot, I would remind you of the extremely touching campaign that led the Bulgarian citizens in Chicago and which was launched by the Bulgarian diaspora all over the world. She said: "You have the right of Bulgaria." That is why this debate that we are having today is extremely important. And, as colleagues said, it is not led today, it is long, it is controversial, it is extremely politicized, ideological and full of many lies and delusions. There is not a single person in this Chamber who can identify relevant data to protect those of the representative of a service with very poor reputation before democracy. No representative, however he raised his hand for the previous member, who did not pass, can present numbers to protect that the vote from Turkey can flood the Bulgarian vote so that there is some, as frightening us from this part of the room, a brutal distortion. Bulgarian citizens, wherever they are, must have equal rights and we are obliged to thank every Bulgarian citizen in Bulgaria and outside Bulgaria who came out and voted in these elections. Under particularly difficult circumstances the Bulgarians showed, no matter where they are, that they want to vote and their political rights for them are important. Historically, the highest vote abroad was produced precisely in these elections, in this severe, incredibly complicated environment, the pandemic environment. One hundred and eighty thousand Bulgarians abroad voted, hundreds of volunteers mobilized their networks and made the sections abroad, sought premises, became advocates. Unique mobilization of the Bulgarian diaspora and Bulgarian citizens in the country and abroad who requested change. I call on GERB's group to support art. 14 and not to refrain, as they did in the previous one, and to really support the words of Mr Rashidov that all Bulgarian citizens for them are equal. And once again: they have the right to Bulgaria! [[Applause from DB, ICN, ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Here you go. I hope this is the last statement on this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u140	It wouldn't be the first time I've been last. Dear Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Bulgaria, the Bulgarian state owes to the people who had to emigrate and abandon their homeland to live elsewhere in the world. This should be clear that it is the result of Bulgaria's mismanagement over the last 30 years, because many of these people who live abroad do not want to live there. They would return, but they should be given the right to determine how the state will develop. We're all talking about bringing the Bulgarians back from abroad, aren't we? But I want to ask: two million immigrants, if they return to Bulgaria, do they have a place to work? Has the Bulgarian State taken care of opening new well-paid jobs to bring these people home? No! And this is the result of the mismanagement of the state. Citizens who live abroad have the right, and we must not deprive them of determining how the state is to develop which policies are useful, which policies are harmful to the state. By giving them the right to vote in the elections, we give them the right to give themselves and their families the opportunity to go home to Bulgaria. We are the most moving nation in the world, the most disappearing, with the greatest population reduction. This will not improve if we shut the mouths of people who live abroad. These people will continue to live there, to have their children born there. These children will speak less and less Bulgarian, less and less will have a relationship with their parents' homeland, and this relationship will not be able to be restored. An hour rather, the voice of these Bulgarians must be heard and we have a historic obligation to give them that right. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u141	- What's the line? I can't see. I think we should focus on closing the discussion on the paragraph. Mr. Dilov, your circumstances show that you can stay for the next paragraph. [[Relations from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u142	Thank you, Madam President. It's a human mission to fight against circumstances. That's the point of our presence here on Earth. One single line to the previous Imam, and it is: thank God the Bulgarian state does not open jobs. We remember the time when the Bulgarian state opened jobs, and it was no better. And the fact that there were not many immigrants back then was because the Bulgarian state prevented immigrants from leaving Bulgaria. I call on you, colleagues, if we try to remove this topic from the election pathos, let us still acknowledge a few facts. Whether you like it or not the management of GERB, it has made maximum efforts as many Bulgarians abroad to vote and they managed to vote in their large majority. [[Heckling]] In their vast majority, they have succeeded! All the previous people have just said how many people voted and how much more they wanted to vote let's see how we can do it in the smartest way possible. So far, the whole debate has not shown the smartest way possible. Think about it, I'm sure there are at least three or four ways out of the simple arithmetic determination of the number of sections that should be discussed. But do you know why it won't happen? Because with three days of time to amend the electoral legislation, that's not gonna happen. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] There is no way to discuss active registration, there is no way to discuss all these mechanisms, which since 2006, as you say, are being discussed here. Just don't make this theme hostage in the upcoming election! There will be more interesting elections, be assured Fiki Storro will run, we will not be able to manage with opening sections. It will be interesting, but let's think about how this process will not be the victim of any other choice. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u143	Your time. I'm asking you to focus on voting. The arguments have been put out quite a bit... [[Noise.]] For some time now, there are lines and replicas that deviate from the text we are discussing. Are there any speeches? [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov wants to make a reply.]] All right, here's a second and third line. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov wants to make a replica of the MP Lyuben Dilov.]] Lyuben Dilov announced he was making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u144	Hole!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u145	No, the doppelganger can do the one who's been speaking. [[Heckling]] You're saying he actually made a statement? No, you made a line, so... [[Noise and lines.]] On the dashboard was written a statement, but Luben Dilov himself announced that he was making a reply. The guy who's gonna do the doppelganger is just the last speaker, and he doesn't want to do it. [[Noise and lines.]] Do you wish to make more speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u146	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am ashamed of you. To tell you the truth, this is not a political debate, because in democratic political culture there is no place for discrimination. And what you're doing now is pure discrimination. Are the people who live in Turkey or Israel or in America less Bulgarians? I'm telling you, it's just embarrassing. This is not a political debate, this is a shameful debate. Let our citizens, who are, by the way, as our colleague said, the biggest investor in Bulgaria because they send the money that they earn there, here to the Bulgarians who really fail. I'm asking you why two million are out? Why? Because they couldn't find a place here and couldn't feed the families. [[Applause from IHN]] We are the ones who must create the conditions for these sons, brothers and sisters to return. Ask yourself the question not to whom are they paying taxes, but why are they out? I'm just ashamed of you. Madam President, let us put an end to this shameful debate, because the Bulgarians are equal and have a right everywhere, because the people of America and Canada traveled a thousand kilometers to vote. A thousand kilometers because they didn't have sections! I'm asking you why? Why? Ask yourself the question and let's stop with these petty bills, and I'm even more shocked because socialist colleagues, those who fought and were communists in the old days, and they fought for people's rights, now they come up with some kind of discrimination. Tomorrow you will forbid the Bulgarian Jews to vote because they are Jews. Aren't you ashamed?! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u147	Mrs. Zaykova, you can't take your card out of the console.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u148	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u149	Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u150	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I think the debate is over because we all united around the thesis that these are all Bulgarian citizens. In the previous speech, I only said that to absolutely dispose of the lives of the Bulgarians have the right Bulgarians who bear the heavy cross here and who pay their taxes for the Bulgarian state. Those who pay other countries don't seem to have to define my way of life, but whatever. The legislation requires us to recognise that we are all citizens of this country. And Mr. Babikan spoke correctly, and my speech was in that direction, but please stop this: someday these investments will come back. Gestures aren't investments. We are fighting the Bulgarian economy to develop. Second, will they come back? Forgive me, for thirty years the only one who has emigrated from the good in Bulgaria is Georges Ganchev. God rest his soul! And stop with that mantra. Nobody's coming back from the good stuff. My two granddaughters will probably never come back from Austria again. Why? Because it's a better life and a better order. And that is why I think that the debate should move on to those points where we should think about how to arrange our lives, those who live in this small Bulgaria. We'll handle this ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u151	Gentlemen, you have been speaking on free topics for a long time now on the subject of the emigrated Bulgarians abroad. The text we are discussing and I urge you to stick to it, because we will also vote on it, is the opening of sections abroad. It's been a long time since we've been on the subject. Out of respect for Mr. Rashidov, I didn't allow it. Please still stick to the text. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Bikov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u152	Madam President, my line is to Mrs. Zaykova's statement and it will be related to him. Dear Mrs. Zaykova, I agree that all people who are Bulgarians are Bulgarians, wherever they live and those who live in Bulgaria are also Bulgarians. We who stayed here didn't do much. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] We didn't do a little! And here I do not speak as an MP, I speak as a person who has lived in Bulgaria all his life and there are very few relatives who live abroad, but we who stayed here also did something for this country. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] This country, Mrs. Zaykova, is developing in the right direction. We may have remarks, we may have problems, but it's much better than it was in 1990, in 1997, in 2007, if you'd like in 2018...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u153	Mr. Bikov, you understand that you're deviating from the subject and you're not doing...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u154	I answer to Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u155	Maybe, but not by the text we're discussing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u156	And when we talk about the Bulgarians, my request is that they really be equal. Those of us who remain here, we are not a second category. We create jobs, the private business that stands in Bulgaria and which has invested, creates jobs, it develops the economy, it makes life. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] And all the people in Bulgaria contribute to this above all. Yes, let everyone who lives in the world feel Bulgarian and be able to vote, but we answer above all to those who work and live here. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u157	Please, long time ago the lines are not any lines, but a free story on the subject: Do we love Bulgarians abroad? Please, Mrs. Zaykova, I beg you to come in and finish the discussion. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u158	Dear Mrs. Zaykova, colleagues from GERB obviously could not understand the difference between handouts and the best offices in all the years because Mr. Rashidov is absolutely right. I ask all of you to say "Bulgarian citizens" and not just Bulgarians, because Bulgarian citizens everywhere are equal in their rights. What they cannot understand is that between the biggest investment in the country, it is about every lev, which is an investment in the lives of the families in the country who are in distress. It's obvious that we go to different streets and different villages. Finally, I would like to say: I too, colleagues, do not like a regime that poisons citizens and blows up warehouses, but I have nothing against the Bulgarian citizens in Russia to have as many sections as necessary. Thank you. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u159	Mrs. Zaykova, do you want the back, or will you be generous? We're closing the discussion. Please proceed to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] I shall put to the vote § 4 by importer with the title of "Employment of polling stations outside the country."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u160	Vote 231 MPs: 116 against 3, abstention 112. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. Vulnerable and long applauses from ICN, DB and ISV, are made with shouts "Bravo!" Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] The motion is accepted. Wait a minute! We are showing in groups, but I am told that the voice of the voter Atanas Kostadinov has not been reported. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u161	Mrs. Chairman! I'm doing a re-voting procedure because we have a colleague who's expecting inclusion and can't. That's why I asked the tech guys to check it out. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u162	Please re-vote § 4. Todor Todorov turned out to have expired quarantine and was not online. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Maybe, but it wasn't filed online. It's an expired quarantine, so... Hospital or not... Please rethink § 4. Vote 232 MPs: 117 against 8, abstention 107. [[(Worldly, long applause from the ICN, DB and ISM, are made with shouts: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u163	Proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva for the creation of § 5. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5 with the text: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. The fifth sentence is created: "The devices for the machine voting are stored under conditions and in order determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u164	Are there any statements on the paragraph? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I begin by saying, Madam President, that I am generally a supporter of the approach that has been applied when proposals come out of the subjective scope of the first reading of the Law, they should not be considered. This is something we fought for in the previous parliament and I support it. However, we must have the opportunity to argue why the proposals made by us fall within this scope and my statement under § 5 relates precisely to what has not been considered and proposed, such as the creation of a new § 4b, just before the relevant § 5. Madam President, in order not to waste any more time, I would like to tell you that the proposals made by the BSP and signed by Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly aim at a question that concerns all other issues. It is about the establishment of adequate electoral lists in the Republic of Bulgaria through the maintenance of a public register of voters at last. This issue falls within the scope of the bill adopted at first reading both essentially and purely formally. I'll give you only three reasons why he comes to the point. One of them is related to the hot debate about how Bulgarian citizens vote abroad. Watered many times, this debate gets hotter and hotter, which makes more pathos, gets more applause and everyone sounds credible. Why? Because as on many other issues, we are talking about things that we can only think we know about, but we do not have accurate information because we do not have adequate electoral lists. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand that Bulgarians abroad, for whom we have rightly debated, are recorded in the polling stations, in the sectional election committees and here in the country. You also understand that everyone can pull out the data they like and, in general, cover them through different principles, because everyone speaks in a created environment where there is no precise and clear information. Another issue addressed in this draft law, which, if it were to happen, would largely solve the issue of the number of sections. However, this vote is, of course, impossible if we are not aware of the exact addresses and the location of the people who would like to benefit from it. At the moment, such a thing is impossible because active registration and the relevant public register were never created. Third issue, which is concerned in this bill, is the one for the majority vote. We are principled opponents of this system, but further in the bill we will see a proposal, according to which from the "There is such a people" propose, according to their understanding, that the next elections be voted majority. If this happens on unclear election lists, you understand what will happen. 240 regions... [[Heckling]] Listen to me for one second, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u166	Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u167	240 regions...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u168	Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u169	Let me just say why this...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u170	Mr. Zarkov, I'm very, very sorry and I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u172	But we're discussing text...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u173	Public register, we choose.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u174	...which reads: "The machines are kept in order and conditions defined by a decision of the Council of Ministers. "
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u175	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u176	If you spoke at first reading, I understand, but you were extremely thrifty there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u177	No, no. Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u178	Now at second reading to tell everything that is left without consideration on the basis of art. 84...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u179	Listen to me for a second!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u180	...is a little...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u181	Madam President, listen to me for a second. Do not force me to enter into a dispute with you, which I have had with the previous Presidents of the National Assembly. I am talking about § 4b, which was not reported because it was considered not to be within the scope of the subject matter, and I am arguing why it enters. Give me another minute and a half, believe me, I won't abuse you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u182	Okay, I'll give you one, but so gentlemanly...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u183	240 electoral regions on wrong electoral lists, 240 one-mandated regions will have fewer votes, which will cost one term, in number of votes. And when this term is determined by 200, 300, 500 dead people, it will be distorted. The price will be reduced in cash terms, but the price will increase. Cash will increase the price. Therefore, Madam President, and purely formal in the next paragraph, we will make amendments to art. 36, related to the electoral lists and the entry therein. That is to say, this issue is within the scope of the Law. It must be discussed and voted in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. And in essence, the question of the electoral list and its adequacy is the question of questions, without the decision of which everything else could be a field for very strong speakers' statements, but they are unlikely to improve the electoral process.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u184	Okay. Now, let's join... [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Please, we are discussing § 5. He says what I read to you. Please, let's get back to the paragraph. Are there any other statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u185	I'd like to speak on the subject from...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u186	And there is § 5. It says what I told you it says. I don't see any requests for speeches. We vote on the Commission text for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u187	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u188	They voted 121 MPs plus one online: for 119, not against, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u189	Colleague Zarkov, just one clarification. If you recall, at the second viewing in the Commission, we felt it was right to make this proposal of yours under § 4a. Part of its systematic place is in § 10, t. 34. It's just there, and that's where it belongs, so this is where we deliberately pulled it out. Yeah, he's practically out of range, but he doesn't belong here. [[Reply.]] It's about video surveillance, that's right. Moving on to page 12. According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vassileva and Toshko Hadjitodorov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 the words "the corresponding municipality at the current address of the person" shall be replaced by "The Head Office of the Department of Economic Registration and Administrative Service" in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and shall be created sentences three and four: "In the electronic application, the voter shall enter his name by ID card, type and number of his identity document, date, place and authority of issue, single citizen number, compares his permanent and present address and shall indicate a telephone number with a signature not required. The Directorate-General for Civil Registration and Administrative Service shall verify the data in the electronic applications received automatically at the same time as their submission. 2. In para. 3 A sentence is created second: A sentence first applies to the electronic applications submitted on the website of the General Directorate for Civic Registration and Administrative Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u190	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! I propose that we accept that the statement by colleague Zarkov was made under § 6 because the issue of active registration and the way in which the electoral lists are drawn up, including proposals by him and a group of MPs § 4b has a systematic place here. The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up! We have made a similar proposal, with which we demand the introduction of active registration in the upcoming elections. The Legal Commission has adopted that in this case it is about texts that are outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first reading, with which we from the Parliamentary Group of. We don't agree. Let's read the text of art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules on which the National Assembly is working: 83 These are such proposals as the committee responsible's proposals included in her report. Editorial amendments are also eligible. Proposals which are contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote shall not be discussed and voted. Let us raise the question whether these proposals contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u192	Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u193	Just now, just now...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u194	I would like to draw attention to the fact that these proposals have not been addressed on the basis of art. 82, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u195	Art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u196	No, on the grounds of art. 82, that's what the report says. On the basis of art. 82, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u197	We are talking about specific proposals that are being debated whether or not they are within the scope. Dear colleagues, we have just adopted texts that have extended the possibility of creating sections for our countrymen abroad. Some of these sections will be created automatically on the basis of citizens who have already voted. In a moment, we will put to the vote proposals relating to the vote by mail. I ask, because for everyone who is interested in more or less in the rules of elections, it is clear that the so-called dead souls on the lists in Bulgaria, which give deviations of several hundred thousand to one million deviations, these are the Bulgarian citizens who live abroad and who are on the electoral lists in Bulgaria only because they have a permanent address in Bulgaria. Of course they will. There is no Bulgarian citizen who does not have a permanent address in Bulgaria. So all Bulgarians who, according to data from the Foreign Ministry, already have more than two million living abroad, appear on the electoral lists in Bulgaria. Those who are over 18 and have election rights. So what are we doing right now? We are untying the possibilities for creating more sections, which we heartily supported by the parliamentary group of. Goons out! We give the opportunity to vote in the mail of Bulgarians abroad and I ask: how will those, I hope, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians, over a million Bulgarians, two million Bulgarians who are abroad exercise their right to vote when they appear on the electoral lists in Bulgaria, and how will this again give opportunities for manipulation? While there are thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who do not live in Bulgaria, who will now vote abroad with an easy way for sections, with the mail vote, how will this give opportunities for manipulation in Bulgaria? We open a huge door, and it's clear to anyone who monitors election legislation. Let us not stick to procedural tricks, ladies and gentlemen of the Legal Commission, and I specifically address its chairman. It is clear why and how the bills that we have submitted were not supported and the other parliamentary groups - Democratic Bulgaria and BSP - were not supported. Why were they not supported, although they are basically repeating the proposals that we have made to ensure concentration on important topics in a bill and not to waste unnecessary parliamentary time, which, in fact, is expensive. Well now this is not on a formal basis to drop active registration. It's a cause...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u198	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u199	...who we've been standing behind. And I propose, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u200	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u201	...to vote on whether these texts are outside the principles...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u202	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u203	...and the range or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u204	I'm sorry, but the Rules, Art. 82, para. 2 states that texts of rejected bills cannot be introduced as proposals between first and second readings. That's the rule book we're working on. Don't put me in a conflict of interest. You know, I'm part of the Protestant group, but that can't be a reason for the President to break the rules. [[Laughter]] [[Applause.]] Mrs. Nadezhda Yordanova has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens! I would very briefly like to return the debate to the proposals § 6 of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code. It is very clear and aims to make it easier for our fellow citizens who want to vote at this address to say it quickly and electronically. A consistent policy of "Democratic Bulgaria" is to do everything possible for our most important actions to be able to perform them from our phone or our computer, so in fact what we need to vote now is to give our fellow citizens a better opportunity to exercise their right to vote. And that's actually what the debate is about right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u206	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. Please vote on § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u207	I'm in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u208	They voted 195 MPs plus one online £ 196: for 126 plus one online...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The motion is accepted. At 11:30, I think I'm gonna take a break, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u209	Proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva for the creation of § 7. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7 with the following text: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: 2. In para. 3 the words....................................................................... is 3. The creation of para. 3a: The Authority referred to in Article 3 (3) (a) shall ensure that the following conditions are met: 23, para. 1 establishes the existence of permanent damage to the voter, which prevents him from exercising his selective right in an election room: 1. professionally, as an internal electronic administrative service under the Law on Electronic Governance; 2. by requesting a document from TelK (NELK) when the official inspection under point 2. 1 is not successful.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u210	Are there any speeches? I can't see. Please vote for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u211	I'm in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u212	They voted 213 MPs plus one online.. 214: for 141 plus one online.. 142, against 14, abstention 58. [[Applause from DB.]] The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u213	Colleagues, p. 18. Proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. The Commission does not support the proposal. The present § 5 becomes § 8 and is amended as follows: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Commission shall be composed of 9 members, including a Chair, two Vice-Presidents and a Secretary. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The President, Vice-Presidents, Secretary and Members of the Central Election Commission shall be elected by the National Assembly. 3. Allinei 8 and 9 are canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u214	Do you have any comments? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u215	The committee's Sanction has been read. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] After we vote, then we read the edit. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The Sanction I've said it, the Commission does not support the proposal. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u216	Read the unsupported proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u217	I read it. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u218	Mrs. Karayancheva, watch the meeting. [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor for procedure.]] Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u219	Thank you, Madam President. In relation to the manner of conduct, but not your manner of conduct, Madam President, but the rapporteur, the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please note that it is reported and read the unsupported proposal of MPs and then the Commission's version, together with the proposals supported by the Commission. This has not been reported, Madam President, and there has therefore been a confusion in this House............................................................................................................................................................................ Please follow the rules. I understand that the President of the Legal Commission is yet to learn, but these are extremely important, extremely important procedural issues on an extremely important bill. [[ITN lines and lines]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u220	He's a fast learner. [[Noise and lines.]] Finish the text, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u221	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Commission shall be composed of 15 members, including the President, Vice-Presidents and Secretaries, which shall be proposed by the parliamentary parties and coalitions. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The Central Election Commission shall be appointed by decree of the President of the Republic following public consultations and procedure determined by the President on a proposal from the parliamentary parties and coalitions. The proposals shall be announced on the website of the President of the Republic. 3. Alinea 5 is canceled. 4. In para. The 6th sentence first the words the Members of the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Groups shall be replaced by the parties and coalitions represented in Parliament and in a sentence second the words the People's Representative or the Parliamentary Group shall be replaced by the party or coalition represented in Parliament. 5. In para. 7 the word "selected" is replaced by "supplied" and the words "parliamentary group" or by MPs from the same parliamentary group "supplied" are replaced by "parliamentary represented party or coalition." 6. In para. The 8th sentence first is added by using the method of the largest remaining, a new sentence is created second: the Parties and coalitions with equal leftovers fill in the unoccupied places, starting with the smallest parliamentary party or coalition. 7. In para. 9 words and parties, and coalitions that have been elected with their candidate lists, but are not parliamentaryly represented, shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u222	It's 11.25. I suppose this is a text that will cause a long discussion, so allow me to give the rest now. Thirty-minute break. Then we proceed to debate on the paragraph. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u223	Colleagues, I am opening the discussion on § 8. 46 of the Law. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u224	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First, we must realise that in such a short time to make such radical changes in the way the CEC is drawn up is at least unreasonable. So far, the electoral system has been working on that is what international observers tell us. In the last election, all international observers told us that the elections have provided sufficient legitimacy. None of the parties involved in the election process challenged the legitimacy of the elections. This one, first. Secondly, when we are talking about holding elections and forming a Central Election Commission, we must say the following: international standards require central electoral authorities to act on the basis of certain principles that are transparency, impartiality and independence. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u225	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u226	I ask the following: how is it that when you give the President the power to appoint the CEC, you will ensure that these principles are implemented? Again: impartiality, transparency and independence. You are giving an opportunity to a man who, in the last year, has proved that he is neither impartial nor independent, who has emerged from his constitutionally defined powers and taken a position in the political process outside the powers which the Constitution gives him. How do you give him the opportunity to determine the members of the CEC and are you convinced that he will be impartial and independent in this role? [[Loud noise.]] I'll give you an example of the way you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u227	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u228	They're hiring ambassadors. The Bulgarian constitutional framework, unfortunately, does not describe well the way in which coordination with the presidential institution and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is carried out when ambassadors are appointed. In recent years we have also been convinced that the Bulgarian President does not fit with the necessary amount of responsibility when appointed ambassadors. Therefore, we could not in any way believe that such a procedure giving him the power to appoint the members of the Central Election Commission would be formed on the basis of these international principles, which Bulgaria should not seek to implement in any way. You are creating a danger that the next elections will be challenged and that their legitimacy will not be recognised in fact. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u229	The line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitov, my reply to you has two aspects: common and concrete. The general aspect is: do not enter into this topic, which is contained in every time looking for something to attack President Radev. Such statements of the kind that he has come out of constitutional powers are at least irresponsiblely said. What and when did President Radev get out of constitutional powers? Can you tell? Or did the fact that he stated his clear civil position and said powerfully and clearly what everyone else sees, but did not dare to say, is exiting constitutional powers? That's the common sense. The specific part. You've said a lot of wrong things. What they offer from "There is such a people" does not give much power to the President. For your information, let me tell you: both so far and now, and under this Code, the President appoints most of the members of the CEC, with the exception of the management of the CEC. In addition, it is envisaged to act under bound jurisdiction on a proposal from the parties concerned. When I heard what you were saying, when I understood what your idea was, when I saw to what extent you were willing to manipulate the text, I, who initially did not support their ideas, am now inclined to do so. Stop embarrassing yourself at least! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u231	Is there another line? I don't see any other line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u232	Dear colleagues! What I am saying, not only is it true that the President has come out of his constitutionally defined powers. He hasn't called a Constitutional Council for National Security in a year and a half and hasn't called it because he took sides during the protests, took sides in the political process. He could take a real civil position as a uniting man when there was a severe division, and continues this severe division to stand in the Bulgarian political life. He contributed to this that we were largely unable to speak here from the very beginning. The dialogue must be restored, and that is clear. But the powers that are currently given to the President with this text are coming out of the framework that has been assigned to him so far. Until now, he was merely appointing, merely proving Parliament's proposals by decree. Now, according to this text, the way we read it, he'll be able to choose who he likes and who he doesn't like. If parliament offers him people who at some point he decides he doesn't like, he will be able to sift them out by his own criteria to refuse Parliament's proposals. That's unacceptable. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u233	Statements? Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u234	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The theme of the CEC may really need to be spoken today. Currently the CEC is in a very strange configuration and apparently Mr. Mitov has not read the Election Code and does not know how it is appointed. Currently, the CEC is appointed by the President by decree of the President, but without public consultation and without public procedure. The CEC leadership... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Well, you read the texts in the Election Code, Mrs. Atanasova, because I don't think you've read them either. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] With regard to the leadership of the Central Election Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u235	Please don't shout from the ground!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u236	The management of the Central Election Commission shall be elected by the National Assembly after a public procedure. Currently, the election commission, which ended its mandate 2019 because of a text proposed by you, colleagues from GERB, is envisaged to increase the CEC in each new term of the National Assembly with one member of the newly represented parties in the National Assembly. Therefore, the CEC 2014 - 2019 reached 23 members. I think it is not a good approach for the CEC to increase with one member in a newly formed parliament, because if this happens at the moment, I do not think that representation at all, the principle of proportion of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly will be implemented, and it will debalance the committee itself, as you see that there are three new parliamentary groups in the National Assembly and their ratio does not at all show that they should have all one member in the CEC. On top of that, this additional member of the CEC, who was appointed, was appointed directly by the President, without absolutely no procedure, simply giving his party to the President the man and the President was obliged to appoint him. What's on the table now? It is now proposed that the parties that have representatives in the European Parliament but are not parliamentary represented should be removed from the participation in the CEC, as the CEC is accountable for representation in the National Assembly. The other means that, since the parties that have representation in the European Parliament but do not have representatives in the National Assembly, to provide for the same principle in the regional electoral committees and the sectional electoral committees, and then there to lay down the territorial principle, or strong local parties that are represented in the municipal councils to also have representatives in the SEC and the RIK. Why is that off? This was done 2009 on a proposal by the MP Lachezar Ivanov for GERB party, which had already entered politics then. I believe that this representation is not real and is not right. That is why we propose that this be removed. Currently, the Central Election Commission consists of 20 members, including representatives of the Reformation bloc, who are not currently present, as it is formed on top of everything before the European elections 2009, are representatives of the Bulgarians without censorship, who are also not in the European Parliament at the moment, are entering representatives of NFSB, of Volja. Five parties that currently do not have any representation in the Bulgarian Parliament or in the European Parliament. With regard to the appointment, we propose that this hybrid way between Parliament and President should be completed and we propose that this be by a decree of the President, who cannot interfere with the decision of the parliamentary parties and coalitions, but what we have pledged is to have a reasoned proposal, to be clear what are the professional qualities of the candidates who are being proposed. We introduce a requirement for the President to make public consultations, that is, everyone to see what the candidates are, how the consultations are conducted between the parliamentary parties and coalitions and the President to provide for a public procedure under which these candidates will be seen and heard, that is, the President cannot take a decision beyond what the parliamentary parties and coalitions propose to him, he acts in conditions of absolutely bound competence. Why do we want to change the CEC? The CEC doesn't want to change it just so it's not this CEC, it's some other CEC. We propose, first, a reduction in the composition of the CEC, as we believe that 20 members is too many. I don't know if there's anyone in this room who can give us an example of another body in the country with so many members. This is only the CEC with 20 members, which has no administration. Mrs. Manolova's idea is here, which has been the bearer of these texts, it was the CEC to be a small permanent committee, but with a large permanent electoral administration and a permanent electoral administration on the ground. It hasn't evolved to this day, and it hasn't. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm looking at the reports and preliminary conclusions of... Is the time running out?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u238	Okay, thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u239	Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u240	Dear Madam President, dear Mrs Miteva! I have a very short line and a question. Is there going to be a proportional ratio because it is not provided for in the Law and what will it be? On what principle will the President choose.. because so far we have heard that he will see the people, people will also see those people who are broadcast by the parties, and what you propose the President to decide in the end. We can offer him twelve candidates, he will choose three of ours. You're going to offer him ten, you're going to choose eight of yours because that's what's written down, or it's probably going to happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u241	Mr. Zarkov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Miteva! Obviously, colleagues from GERB-SDS have not read the text, have not understood either what the President will do, nor how it will be suggested that you read them relatively slowly paragraphs 1 to 8 to understand the answer to their questions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u243	Third line, Mr. Babikan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I think it has become clear to everyone, and I was hoping Mrs. Miteva for this is my line to explain clearly that what is being proposed is a law and not a discussion about this to Mr. Mitov, the personal qualities of someone who is currently head of state. I am purely humanly very moved by this protest that is a quote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u245	Mr. Babikan, I'm sorry, Mrs. Miteva has spoken and there are lines being made on her.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u246	That's right. For her, I'm explaining how she should have dealt with what the conspirators said while explaining the Law. Your people have made it clear that we want to be governed by people with morals who do not steal from us and do not lie to us....These people will hardly be picked up from the street.............................................. these people will hardly be picked up from the street..................................I quote your President................................................................................................................................................. Make a comparison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u247	Since that was more of a statement, but in the replica procedure, I give the floor to Mrs. Miteva for the duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u248	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, today again this sitting is proof that you not only do not read, you do not know the Election Code. Since last week, we are talking about the Election Code and I see in the Commission, and here, questions are being asked, which are absolutely.. I do not know how to say it... which show real incompetence and ignorance, but no provisions of the Election Code. [[Applause from ICN, DB and ISV.]] About what you asked me a question about. [[a line from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva: "Don't lecture us! "]] , in art. 46, para. 6 is explicitly said, para. 7: For President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary, no persons proposed by the same parliamentary party or coalition may be elected. In the appointment of CEC members, the ratio between parliamentary parties and coalitions is maintained. The representatives of a party and a coalition cannot have a majority in the committee. I think the regulations are clear, there are no concerns. The President acts the way you submit your proposals to him, and there is no doubt about the provisions from now on. And I would ask you only in relation to the CEC to read carefully the OSCE's preliminary conclusions on these elections, to read the Ambassador's letters to England for the elections in England, including the CEC Public Council, to understand why we are doing this shift. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN, ISV and DB.]] Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u249	I am making a procedural proposal on behalf of the "There is such a people" to extend the working time until we have to, in order to accept what we have to accept. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u250	Proposal for an extension of working time until the item on the agenda is completed. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u251	What do I have to do as long as it takes? What question?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u252	Please vote on extending working hours until the point is completed. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Until the point is complete. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] They voted 207 MPs: 121, against 8, abstention 78. The offer is accepted. Second procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u253	Thank you, Madam President. I am taking a procedure in the manner in which you should suspend speeches which have a very instructive tone to the plenary about who is what and what is discussing. I note, my colleague Miteva, that the colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" have made a proposal, which, although not supported, has no obstacle to be discussed in the plenary for the annulment of para. 8 and 9 of this Election Code. So you won't be looking for what Al is saying right now. 8 and 9 will tell you that they say the ratio between the parliamentary parties represented. That is, everything said by both Mr. Zarkov and Mrs. Miteva that we cannot have a debate about the ratio between the parliamentary parties represented is not the case, because the Democratic Bulgaria is asking for the annulment of these terms and we have the right to discuss it, honourable Members. I hope you'll apologize at the gym because you just let her down.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u254	Mrs. Atanasova, it is discussed § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u255	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u256	Before § 8 on the Commission was read the proposal of colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" and their proposal is also being discussed at this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u257	Exactly!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u258	By discussing it at this point, no one has spoken on it until now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u259	We speak on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u260	You may speak on it, but it is nice for someone, at least in the front row, to carry the original of the law and make an account of what it says. No, not what it is, Mrs. Karayancheva, the new... [[(Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva:]] Well, okay, okay. Then we won't be reading the law, because next time I'll start reading to Mr. Bikov the law by text. Mrs. Miteva, you want the floor for? Here you go. [[Replications from the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Dessislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u261	Mrs. Atanasova, I have to answer... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, statement. Okay, statement. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I didn't. I've made a line for Mr. Mitov. I didn't have a statement. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I have to explain... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u262	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u263	A statement, then. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I didn't say anything. I was doing a line on Mr. Mitov. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u264	Quiet, please! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u265	For the CEC, I was making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u266	She spoke! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u267	Quiet, please! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, I think it's nice to have those who look at us know what we're discussing and what arguments we're talking about. Let's not drown everything in the process and in the way. We're discussing this paragraph, okay. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u268	Madam President, as far as I have been accused of leading this House astray, and as far as you rightly say that the people watching us should know what it is, my procedure is as follows. Please explain to the Chamber before this vote that the gentlemen and ladies of GERB are confused between two texts that they have made a reply to the text of the gentlemen and ladies of the Since I am sure that most of the people who are watching us have understood, unfortunately, those who are here, some of them are not, I ask you really in the vote to clearly identify the relevant sentences. We are offered the following: to cut the CEC from 20 to 15 in a ratio between the political forces. "Democratic Bulgaria" has a different attitude, which, if they decide, they will tell themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u269	Okay. Here you are, Mr. Glauchev, but I hope you're not intruding your parliamentary style to me, it doesn't suit me. [[Laughter and applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u270	You would only benefit from such a style...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u271	No, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u272	...because he stepped on the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, but whatever. Please explain to colleagues who say that when there are proposals and are not accepted, they are subject to vote and to discussion before a vote, respectively. This is the proposal of colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. So the wrong guy is probably Mr. Zarkov. You can ask for a personal explanation, like the chairwoman of parliament, of a procedure... [[Reply from MP Krum Zarkov.]] You know you can't ask for a personal explanation, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u273	Mr. Glauchev, please don't enter into dialogue with each other, because he doesn't understand anything. What do you want to tell me after all?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u274	If you don't understand, I think most people understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u275	Sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u276	So please stick to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. It'll only help you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u277	Thank you. [[Heckling]] Whatever he wants to say, that's what he's gonna say now. Are there any statements on the paragraph? Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u278	Madam President, honourable Members! One thing is clear from this paragraph is that there is a demand for an increase in the authority of the President, who will be running for president in six months. He has already announced his candidacy and, in fact, as is not subject to any control, he can do whatever he wants with this central election committee. However, I would like to ask: what happens to the sectional election committees, on what principle will they be built? Because the sectional election committees are proportionate and there is a party represented by each parliamentary party plus a party represented in the European Parliament. No party has a majority and this is a guarantee of the normal conduct of the electoral process. There are observers, advocates and party representatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u279	Mrs. Karayancheva, excuse me...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u280	I'm speaking right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u281	No, I know you're speaking, but the text we're discussing says: "The Central Election Commission."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u282	But let me speak. Here's the thing, guys, I'm doing the following math. On this project, which you are proposing, it turns out, because there are 15 members, it turns out that GERB will have four, BSP three, there are such a people. Goons out! Why do you get this thing if you have to, yes, Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u283	"Democratic Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u284	I apologize, "Democratic Bulgaria." This becomes clear from the sixth point in para. 8: The first sentence is added using the method of the largest remainder, a new sentence is created second: "Parties and coalitions with equal leftovers fill in the unoccupied places, starting with the smallest parliamentary party or coalition. This place is due to GERB and we must have five representatives in this committee. This is how accounts have been made in the Central Election Commission. I want you to tell me here, from this tribune, how many members of the Central Election Commission will each party have? Because since 1995, the Association for Fair Elections and Civil Rights has been repeating that there should be a permanent electoral administration that should be more transparent rules chosen here in Parliament. Because members of the CEC are not chosen in a strange way in the dark, Mrs. Miteva. It is a pity that you have worked for 20 years in this administration and have not yet understood what procedures [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] , how are the members of the Central Election Commission elected here in Parliament, the leadership of the Central Election Commission and what to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u285	Ms. Karajancheva, let's at least stick to each other former and current leaders of parliament to a bon tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u286	No, no. Because Mrs. Miteva had a reproach on our group for not reading. We're reading too! We read too! [[Applause from GERB-SDS, lines and chanted by ISN, ISM and DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u287	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u288	Thank you, Madam President. Well, don't read! You really don't read! So, the formation of the sectionals, the precincts... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u289	Please be quiet so you can listen to your arguments!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u290	...and municipal electoral committees follow the principle of proportion of parliamentary parties and coalitions in the National Assembly. Therefore, there is an additional provision in the Code that says what a parliamentary party and coalition is. It has nothing to do with the formation of the CEC and the way the residues are determined, Ms. Karayancheva. In the case of these residues, up to the fifth digit you all have the same residue, so some decision had to be made. That's what we're offering. You suggest something else. You can offer by lot, but there are two places that need to be filled by three parties that is, and you need to see which is the party that will not fill the place. So if you want to offer by lot, offer another model. We'll vote on it. We've proposed this one. But to say that the downward ratio is not changing. All texts relating to representatives of the European Parliament have been deleted in these texts, i.e. the principle is the same from the CEC to the sectary electoral committee. On the subject of which text we are discussing, Mr. Mitov commented on the ratio in parliament. That is why we commented on our text on the ratio in Parliament and Mr. Zarkov spoke in this direction. There is no ratio in the text of "Democratic Bulgaria." He is whatever we choose them and whatever votes we have in the National Assembly for them. There is a clear choice, and the President is currently, Ms. Karayancheva, appointing the members of the CEC. Take it and read it. [[Applause from ICN, ISV and DB, replica by MP Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u291	Are there any other statements on the text? Mr. Hamid, I'm going to give you the floor for the back, and then I'm going to give you the floor for Gadget. I'm just trying to figure out who's taking the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u292	Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you, Mrs. Miteva, for dispelling my doubts that there will be such a regulation to change the proportion of groups in the SIC. I hate to say it, but you're turning the president into a governor, because the governor is doing the consultations and you're doing this. The other thing that comes to me at first reading by giving the president so much power, give him a choice of a party, make a government, manage his own and make his own elections without a problem! [[GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u293	Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will support the proposed model for the election of the Central Election Commission. We believe that this is a model imposed more than 30 years, but it has been amended by you, colleagues from GERB, accepting the model that the new parties that appear in parliament will simply be added to the composition of the Central Election Commission. We see the number of members growing in the Central Election Commission. Colleagues, as has started at the rate at which new parties appear in the National Assembly, and in this there is nothing wrong, of course, soon the Central Election Commission will have a larger composition than the National Assembly. [[Applause from DPS.]] So let's stop this model. We are of the opinion that the ratio of members of the Central Election Commission should really correspond to the current political situation in the country, and that it should not refer to 2013, for example, since it started, or 2016. Therefore, our proposal, without referring to it in Law, is to unite around a principle in which, within six months after elections, there will be an update of the Central Election Commission and match the new ratio, so that we will support it. But, colleagues, there is another reason for this Central Election Commission to leave. It is in an illegal formation, and the reason for this illegal composition is in the leadership of the 44th National Assembly............................in spite of two written signals............................................. Instead, we were answered: "Well, make a written proposal and let us reject it. " Therefore, Ms. Karayancheva, let us explain in the line why you were so fiercely guarding your obviously incompatible coalition partner in the management. Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. People's representative Tsveta Karayancheva wants the floor for personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u295	No, no, there's nothing personal to explain. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] The mention of your name is no reason for a personal explanation. " He has neither offended nor offended you. If you want a line, please come in. That's what the rules say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u296	But read this rule book!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u297	Here you go, for a cue, no problem. The Rules of Procedure say that you must have been affected by it.................................................................................................... The fact that he mentioned your name didn't affect you! I give you the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u298	Okay, line. Dear Mr Hamid, I have been extremely correct and I have given several letters to your parliamentary group. I explained that in the Committee on Conflict of Interests of the National Assembly, which was chaired by Mr. Yachev, your letter of incompatibility of a member of the CEC and it turned out that there is absolutely no conflict of interest. There were also two of your representatives from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms who voted inviolably that there is no conflict of interest. I have the papers, please. I've tried very hard to keep the papers, and they're with me. The President of the National Assembly shall not submit acts to be dealt with in the National Assembly. There are 240 MPs who, if they had any problems on this subject, could bring it into the Chamber to debate. I'm one of the 240 MPs. So the group that you had about 25 people, given that two people were in the Commission, Mr. Simeonov and Mr. Hakke, I quote, have also unanimously voted that there is no conflict of interest! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u299	For the doppelganger, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u300	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ms. Karayancheva, thank you for the edifying tone and for a moment I felt at a meeting in Lom.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u301	Are you sorry you didn't attend this meeting?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u302	For four years you have been President of the National Assembly, and you have not learned the difference between conflict of interest and incompatibility. It's a totally different thing, something like making a bucket of metal and making a wooden bucket. At least that's what you know! [[Applause from DPS.]] You have not learned that the management of the CEC is chosen by plenary and not by the Commission. The Law states that the verification is carried out by the appointing authority. What Committee on Conflict of Interest are you talking about when the appointing authority is plenary? You haven't learned ten terms to pass, yet you won't learn, Mrs. Karayancheva! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u303	I want the floor for a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u304	Allow me to make a comment to you, fellow Hamid, that such a relationship between us is unacceptable. I hope we'll all accept it unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u305	It's only because of Mrs. Doncheva that I'm going to sit down. Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u306	You wanted the word Mr. Gazhev to speak, and then Mr. Yordanov. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I'd like to thank you for the remark you made. I hope that the tone and the conversation in this room will suit this tribune and not come to the same downfalls as it had just now. I have a few questions for the importers. I will speak on the text and on the version of the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u308	Please show which text you are expressing on the one of the importer, or the ladies of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u309	Madam President, I just said in the version of the Commission. I think it's clear which text I'm speaking on. I hope they answer a few questions. Yes, so far the National Assembly has elected the leadership of the Central Election Commission, and the President has appointed them on a proposal from the parties represented by the parliamentary groups or the parties represented by the European Parliament, and this is changing at the moment. The importers explain that this dual competence of Parliament and the president is actually maintained, only the text is not read in this way. At the moment, it is rather the option: the parliament proposes, the President has. With all due respect to him and the institution he represents, because the text is specifically on the proposal of the parliamentary parties presented, but the President has his own will whether to comply or not to comply with this presentation. If you are really correct and we want to maintain dual competence and the President to comply with the proposals presented by Parliament, I am making an editorial proposal in para. 4 words after the President to be replaced by "On the basis of a proposal of the parliamentary parties presented." Based on the current current text in...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u310	This is the third row of al. Four in the middle, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u311	Yes, the word "po" to be replaced on the basis of the "on the basis of" which is now the existing text in the Election Code, in order to have a little more clarity as to whether it can actually comply or not comply with Parliament's decision. Here I am impressed by the change in wording. Until now, the parliamentary groups have presented proposals for members of the CEC, and we are currently going to parliamentary parties and coalitions, not groups, that is, there is a change in this regard. Perhaps this is also the reason that has been mentioned that some parliamentary groups will make more proposals and the President will actually choose which of their proposals will be adopted. I hope this is not the case, but I strongly oppose the drop of the elected in the European Parliament to present their nominations and candidates for members of the Central Election Commission. Excuse me, Members, the European Parliament is also a representative of the power of the Bulgarian citizens. It is elected by Bulgarian citizens, and thus it is as if we say that we are not part of the European Union, we do not care about the European Parliament, we do not care about the European identity of Bulgaria. Well, no, here we're gonna watch our own shack, because some new parties want to join the Central Election Commission. Yes, well, it is understandable. There is a new representation, it must be reformulated and it must respond to representation in Parliament, but it must in no way deprive the people who voted for the European Parliament, which is one of the foundations, excuse the Treaty on European Union and one of the foundations of the European community that we are part of. That way, what do we say? What signal are we broadcasting not only to our citizens, but to our European partners? We don't care about Europe. I'm sorry, but I can't agree with that statement. I therefore categorically call for a separate vote on point 7 to be dropped and voted separately. That is, I am proposing a split vote on item 7 so that we can ultimately show whether we are Europeans or whether we are looking at our own interests again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u312	Colleague Gajev, do you mean someone who is wronged and is currently in the European Parliament and we will deprive him of his presence in the CEC? Just so we're clear, because if you're proposing a separate vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u313	This isn't about the intuit persona. I don't want to make legislation or the proposal for the intuit persona. Here's the question of principles: are we part of Europe or are we not part of it? So far, the European Parliament has been represented in the CEC and the members of the European Parliament have their representation, the main dogma of Bulgarian participation in the European Union. By the way, it was done in 2009, but let us not forget when Bulgaria joined the European Union. It was logical then to do it, and before that it made no sense because we did not have members of the European Parliament before 2009. [[Heckling]] She made a line for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u314	I didn't make a line. I just asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u315	I answer your question: 2009 for the first time Members of the European Parliament were elected in Bulgaria and that is why it was done before 2009. Before that we did not have a representative office in 2007 we had a professional appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u316	Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u317	Dear colleagues, it is absolutely imperative that we change the composition of the current CEC, and for another reason there are two people inside who are lawbreakers, and now I will explain how. Members of the current CEC "Yordanka Gancheva" and Georgi Bahanov, who do not know why they are from GERB, in violation of the CEC Act voted from the budget to pay rents for freely selected apartments on the free market, which is a violation. I know it's a violation, because as a journalist, I put in a request to ADPI and they told me it was a violation. I've signaled Conpi, but I haven't had an answer for a long time. Now, as a member of the parliament, I asked whether they should have declared these apartments that rent them, because it is not clear who hired them and the CONPI replied that yes, they should have. So there are people in this CEC who don't belong there at all and it's bloated. The young man who was just a while ago, say that this is about the man Jambazki, who drives drunk, do not be ashamed! Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u318	I can't hear anything, Mr. Nenkov. You want a statement? Yeah, come on in. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u319	I've been raising my hand for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u320	So what?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u321	Well, you have to give me the floor, that's what.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u322	If I have to, I'll decide if I have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u323	I think you're the first among equals and you don't have to restrict my right to speak. If not, you're not in this room. So, colleagues, who are we kidding? What you're doing right now is insolence and nothing else. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I don't know who you're lying to. Could that be, excuse me, Mr. Yordanov, then give me a line, could that be grounds for the change of the CEC what you just said? I understand the reason that no one admits the last election, that people haven't done their job. And I've had criticism of the Central Election Commission, we've even done with fellow tribunes literally before 4 April, you can check this thing out. But what you're doing is brazen. I'll leave it by hand that you're making a three-day election code. What you fought against, Mr. Yordanov, to you, you fought against it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] You have adopted rules in the Rules of Procedure, which I think you are deliberately delaying them from promulging in the Official Gazette, because they guaranteed greater transparency, agreement with NGOs, public discussions. Where are these public discussions, colleague, of this Election Code? Who did you discuss them with? Show me a non-governmental organization. I don't know. But the tip of the insolence is what you do in this paragraph, with all the colleagues here watching me both outside the hall and on TV. You give more power to the president, whom I personally do not trust. How can you guarantee me that the next election will be fair? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] How? This guy came out and took sides. When a president takes sides, I'm not sure of his impartiality. And you're giving him another crowbar in the next parliamentary election. And the tip of the insolence is that he himself will be elected by the CEC, which he will appoint in five months as a candidate for president. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Well, can we talk at all, if not for insolence, what else? But let me tell you one thing, and I'm done with it. Whoever tried, colleagues, to set up the Election Code on his ideas to win a dividend, has always been mistaken, and you will see that in the next parliamentary elections this will not go unnoticed. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u324	Okay. A line, Mr. Yordanov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u325	A line, of course. We'll see what happens in the next election, they're very soon, and I'll remind you of what you said. Second, for the CEC. Read it, people. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 4 is said of the members of the CEC that they should have a good professional reputation and enjoy public interest and trust. People who break the law do not enjoy public interest and trust. And as for your presidential fixation, you're very funny. I know where your cock tightens, in a manner of speaking. The problem is that he, the president, will issue a decree for the members of the CEC, which all parliamentary parties will propose, he will not choose. He will appoint the ones we propose. Read. And as for a literary amendment, that's okay. It's okay to stay calm. But don't talk nonsense. For Radev, why don't you talk to him directly, directly?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u326	You want a hole, Mr. Nenkov? Another one please, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u327	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nenkov, because you wanted facts as to why the Central Election Commission should be replaced, you do not accept the facts of the colleagues from This Central Election Commission 2019 saw no violation in that Mr. Borisov was also the head of the election headquarters, in his words, and Prime Minister. At two meetings, he rejected the complaints of the political parties who submitted them by not seeing a conflict of interest. The same committee in these elections again did not see a conflict of interest in the fact that Mr. Borisov and his ministers used all the state power to carry out election campaigning. And in the middle of the night, say, do you think it's normal, at one, at two, at three o'clock in the morning, when the cameras are gone, to gather, to sit down and to decide that there is no conflict of interest. I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't judge that there's a conflict of interest when you get on the state jeep, with the state money, on the public roads you go and hand out state funds, and you campaign for a political party. It's a violation, Mr. Nenkov, as much as you don't want to admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u328	A hole for Mr. Nenkov and we're done discussing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u329	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Yordanov, you don't understand anything. It's not about the President's fixation. I said I don't trust him. However, I will remind you that when he was elected President, GERB was the first party to congratulate him, by the same rules, with the same CEC, which means what? When we like the elections, then we agree, then there is no problem with the electoral rules, but when we do not like them, we look for the problem there. And the biggest problem in this room has always been exactly such that it requires still political class and will, as in sports, to recognize who is the winner, to recognize who is defeated, not to seek justifications in election law. As far as Mr. Svilenski is concerned, I will answer you this way, Mr. Borisov is still prime minister. But do you know why he's Prime Minister? You know why? Because no one can take responsibility, and that's why he's still prime minister. Make a government, vote a new prime minister, make a cabinet, take responsibility, now you are a mandate carrier and wait to take this responsibility so that Mr. Borisov can quietly withdraw in this function he is currently performing. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u330	Okay. I don't think there are any more speeches. We've run out of arguments. You want a statement, Mr. Bikov? Didn't you speak on that text? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u331	Madam President, honourable Members! The interpretations are clear. I'd rather share a few facts with you. One fact is that, obviously, in this House, this majority will decide to disband the CEC. This will happen somewhere two months before the early parliamentary elections and four or five months before the presidential elections. The early parliamentary elections will be organised by a caretaker government appointed by President Rumen Radev, there will be a new electoral administration. Keep in mind that this is not an easy job. It's not like Wikipedia to read four sentences and scratch them somewhere. It's more complicated than that. In principle, administrative difficulties are created. All elections are different, we are obviously also in a situation where the Central Election Commission in whatever composition it is going to be subjected to public pressure. You are now taking full responsibility, along with your president, because he is not ours to hold the parliamentary elections. Any violation, any deviation, any scandal will be your personal responsibility to each of these parties here. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] who support this proposal. If you can guarantee that the new Central Election Commission will be able to literally enter this process in two or three days, because its work starts from day one, there is a chronogram, there are various attributes of the electoral process that need to be managed. Do you have one? I didn't hear you were so ready to take responsibility. Or you're gonna go out and say it again, well, she's independent, we have nothing to do with her. No, it will be your Central Election Commission. That's what you want to do right now. Secondly, I am very disappointed in the proposal to reject the members of the Central Election Commission from the parties that have representation in the European Parliament. This proposal was adopted a long time ago because of the Reformation bloc, which then had no representation in the Bulgarian Parliament and we decided to give them an opportunity to have representation in the Central Election Commission. Today you want to remove it with one goal only to remove the representation of IMRO, which are currently in the same position. It's a conjunctural solution. Don't talk to me about principles in this situation at all. That's what you want to read. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] If we had adopted such texts five months before the last parliamentary elections and had transferred powers to the Council of Ministers, I am sure there would have been a huge scandal. Today, however, you have a goal. Your goal is to win. You see that you cannot win the trust, you think you will arrange the CEC in some way and this will give you the opportunity to win the elections, the president to win the presidential elections and live together in a people's power of the brotherhood of the honorable. But, guys, it's not gonna work. It's not gonna happen because no one won like that. You don't understand the role of the CEC at all. It's not the CEC who wins the election, it's the people who win it, it's the parties who win it. This is the trust of people and people see you want to set your election rules to be comfortable, and you will still lose because we will beat you again. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u332	Okay. I think we're out of arguments. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u333	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal to end the debate and move on to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u334	I will not end this debate. I'll stop them after Mr. Bojankov, or you'll say someone did something wrong to you again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u335	Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerant attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u336	I hope, however, that you can justify it with the content of your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u337	Dear colleagues from GERB, with an enviable enthusiasm defend your electoral administration. I say yours because it is not in one or two choices that has proved how loyal and working for you it is. I can recall many examples. Some of the brightest are in the last campaign, when Mr. Borisov and the ministers who were also candidates for MPs were running around and making their campaign on national air. My colleagues and I have filed a complaint against this madness, but naturally, the CEC dominated by you has not taken action. Also, fellow Members, I would like to remind you in the local elections how many complaints have rained to the CEC, even in specific examples I can enter how candidates without registrations in the settlements themselves were identified by the CEC and how the CEC itself eventually failed to respect the decisions it had taken and failed to implement them. This naturally delegates the electoral process and disrupts the trust of the citizens in it. That is why one of the reasons why today and now we support the proposal of our colleagues from "There is such a people" is that this Election Commission has proved that it works only in your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u338	Here you go for the three lines. [[Noise and lines.]] At the same time, yes, like the three tenors.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u339	Mr. Bojankov, two and two is four, right?! Come on now, come on out on the back and tell me how GERB dominates the Central Election Commission, only in numbers, you can tell me if GERB has a majority, or if there is no majority? Give me a very clear answer to that question! You have a member less than GERB, it is simply funny to say these things from this tribune. And we've been giving signals, and we haven't been respected. That's why it's an independent body! But, look, the big problem is different. If you make a government, take responsibility and the first thing you do to make a Code of Elections, reform it, I would say well, okay, will enter into force in some year, two, three, next parliamentary elections and so on, only that we make election rules that will come in two months. Well, aren't you ashamed?! What nonsense are you talking out of this tribune?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u340	Mr. Nenkov, your mother and father have a much higher language. I hope you get close to them. [[Applause from ICN, ISV. Announcements by GERB-SDSS: "Woo!" "Replication by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u341	Madam President, may I remind you, however, that there are Rules in the National Assembly and you, taking up this high post and if you want to replicate someone, this is done by this tribune and not by these microphones there. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So, please, at least respect the Assembly! Dear Mr. Bojankov: Without going on leave, the ministers went around the country on election events to cut a tape of a newly discovered compressor station, there to make a first break. It's another thing to reap or film them near new equipment in a hospital. The most active, of course, turned out to be the prime minister and leader of BSP Sergey Stanishev and so on. [[(GERB-SDS Scandated: Bravo!]] Reference to Minister Evgeni Zhelev, who led the BSP leaves in Stara Zagora and so on and so forth. I read to you an article from the newspaper "Dnevnik" dated 24 June 2009. Then the ministers obviously made a campaign and were ministers. If anyone on the other side of the room accuses him, okay, I'll understand that, but you're the one I don't accept that kind of criticism from. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u342	Mr. Bikov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u343	Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Bojankov! We make principled statements here! We have an interest in this change that they are proposing because we will have a president in six months! The point is, this is not good for democracy. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u344	Would you like a douche bag?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u345	According to the first line, which was remarkable: "We give each other signals and they respect them, so they are an independent administration. I'm speechless, Mr. Nenkov! But now I will explain to you, if you have not understood how the majority of this CEC is formed... GERB plus.. United patriots.... and in some cases with the courtesy of the DPS..... who come out and look out from the door as we have seen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u346	Mrs. Vasileva proposed that the debate on the paragraph be terminated. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Maybe, but before you, Mrs. Vassileva made the procedural proposal, which I will now put to the vote. [[Noise and lines GERB-SDS.]] Reverse procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u347	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm doing reverse procedure for nothing else, but, first of all, because there's more people who want to talk. Secondly, let us not forget what we are looking at - the Election Code that you are adopting - in three days, with proposals between deadlines, with extreme hasty haste and in an extremely scandalous way. At least let the debate go. Nobody's in a hurry! We agreed to extend the time until the item was exhausted on the agenda. Let's at least have a debate here after you hid the bill from the public. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u348	I put to the vote the proposal to end Ms. Vasileva's debates. Vote 183 MPs: 107 against 74 abstentions 2. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on § 8. First, I vote on the proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. This is the text on page 18 below, and on page 19 above. I'm reading it anyway, so that no one gets confused. The Commission shall be composed of 9 members, including the President, two Vice-Presidents and Secretary-General; amendments to para. 4 The management shall be elected by the National Assembly; and respectively para. 8th para. 9 to be repealed which refer to the ratios of the parliamentary represented political forces. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote for the proposal of colleagues Yordanova and Tsoneva, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u349	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u350	They voted 225 MPs: for 8, against 113, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. Several additional comments were received on the Commission proposal. First, I will put them editorially to the vote and then the text as a whole. First, in para. 4 the word "in the third row in the middle of the subparagraph" shall be replaced by "on the basis of" the words "in the third row in the middle of the subparagraph."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u351	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u352	Vote 223 MPs: 160 against 1, abstention 62. The offer is accepted. Paragraph 7 of para. 4 which reads: in para. 9 words and parties and coalitions that have been selected with their candidate lists of MEPs, but are not parliamentaryly represented. This is Mr. Jambazki's point. GERB's proposal was t. 7 down. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Vote 223 MPs: 74, against 138, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the entire §8 to the vote, as proposed to the Commission, with the editorial amendment that we adopted in para. 4. Vote 229 MPs: 155, against 72, abstention 2. Paragraph 8 has been accepted. [[Reply from the National Representative Georg Georgiev.]] Colleague Georgiev, didn't you speak on this text?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u353	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u354	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u355	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the so-made proposal of the Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" because I did not receive both my colleagues and my Bulgarian citizens, the answer to the question: what is the procedure for selecting a leadership for the next Central Election Commission? Who will determine who will be the chairman of this committee, who will be the secretary of this committee, provided that there is more than one proposal that has been made by the parliamentary parties? This is a very important issue because the procedure, which has been completely amended so far, is the way of election, as we are talking about the way of election, which has so far been........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the moment you are doing something in the dark, something vague and something behind the scenes, and at the same time you are talking about transparency and honesty. I'm sorry, but that's a complete lie. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u356	Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u357	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against it for three reasons. The first reason is that you severely debalanced the Central Election Commission, making it an absolutely political political body. The second reason is that you have delegated the Bulgarian representation in the European Parliament, telling tens and hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens that the vote they have given for their representatives in the European Parliament means nothing. For you, representation in the European Parliament is de facto equalized to zero. Political parties, which have broadcast representatives in the European Parliament, are not even allowed to have a floor under the electoral rules, on the Central Election Commission and its presence. And the third, ladies and gentlemen, is that when you're insincere, when you don't believe what you're saying when you're unprincipled and inconsistent, you make even some subconscious mistakes in my opinion. Because of the t. 6 You bet that the method of the largest common remainder will form the additional broadcast of representatives in the Central Election Commission. But this method, also known as Hare-Nimaier, is used in the proportional electoral system, and you want a majority! You want majority elections! [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] . You are fighting for MPs to choose majority, and even in what you are proposing here, you want to use a principle based on proportional distribution of mandates. I am sure that you do not know how this principle works and when you were speaking here on the proposals for the Election Code last time, this has been seen, but at least when you are making such proposals, a serious lobbyist, and for the benefit of a third political figure, at least somehow structure it a little bit to be in line with the main cornerstones of political propaganda. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u358	Is there a third?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u359	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Negative vote as part of the Reformation Block. By the way, there are other representatives of the Reformation bloc of that time. I mean, we go with a double standard. One short detour. As a person with a longer experience, I would share with the new colleagues we are neither the first nor the last MPs. There's been a Parliament there's going to be after us. Let us observe the traditions, respect the vote of the Bulgarian citizens who voted for our MEPs. Although some of them are not represented here in Parliament, they represent Bulgaria in the European Parliament, not themselves. So don't make this exception. Working in parliament by exception, hoping that this will help someone in the parliamentary elections or some other elections, is not good practice. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u360	Here you are, Mr.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u361	Paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u362	He's not six, he'll be nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u363	Yeah. A proposal came from the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva: The present § 6 becomes § 9 and is amended as follows: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the 1. In para. 1 comma after the word "select" and the expression "sweep" shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) After the procedure under para. 1 Members of the National Assembly shall make a proposal to the National Assembly for the election of the President, Vice-Presidents, Secretary and Members of the Committee. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 9, by proposing to add a title to the public consultation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u364	And the text of the importer you want us to support, perhaps read it to us after all? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Article 47 is not read, but know what you are voting for.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u365	Okay. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 47. (1) In the course of consultations under art.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u366	I'm just gonna say two words. The text provides for the candidates what they should represent and how the request to the President is formed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u367	Mrs. Doncheva, don't underestimate your colleagues, they can read.... in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u368	I'm not sure. [[Happy tidings.]] Please, discussion. Words from the text? I won't. Please, voting mode. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva, not supported by the Commission. They voted 191 MPs: for 70, against 51, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. Please vote on the proposal of the importer supported by the Commission, which will become § 9 with the title of "Public consultations."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u369	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u370	200 MPs voted: 128, against 70, abstention 2. The proposal for § 9 is accepted. Paragraphs 7 and 8 below, p. 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u371	We'll vote separately on the paragraphs. First, we will vote § 7. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 7 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u372	Please, voting mode. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u373	Thank you, Madam President. Rather, I have a question for the importers, and it is: who will be your candidate for the CEC, honourable importers, as your proposal, which we were just about to vote on, is: from the current text in force, the requirement that the leadership of the election headquarters of a party, coalition or initiative committee cannot be proposed as a candidate for a member of the CEC. That is, you want someone who is in charge of your election headquarters or in the leadership of your party, your coalition or the initiative committee to be proposed as a member of the Central Election Commission. Doesn't that contradict everything that has been said so far that we have to have a professional CEC that is apolitical and that only respects the rules and the Law? I ask one of the importers to answer this question: why does this text need to be dropped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u374	Any other speeches? Mr. Hamid, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u375	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, let me make this very clear. This proposal is related to the already unsupported proposal of colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" to be formed a Central Election Commission with nine members, which is a professional Central Election Commission in which there are no party allowances and not a party. [[Applause from IHN]] And it's only right that there aren't any governing bodies of any party. But since the CEC will no longer be professional, this text, which is bound to this unsupported proposal, must be dismissed. There's no point in him. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u376	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u377	I don't see any other lines. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u378	Thank you, Madam President. That's really interesting! There is such a people who support them unconditionally, and the DPS explains why. [[Extreme applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u379	Any other speeches? Mrs. Yordanova and Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u380	Colleagues, a brief explanation, because it seems there's been a mix-up in the room. The paragraph we are discussing at the moment is not offered by the Democratic Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u381	- What's the line? Holes? I won't. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u382	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many from here use the word.... but change is also possible to hear those who criticize when they are right to do so. A moment ago, I reacted very strongly to GERB-SDS's statements because I thought they were not entitled. In this case, however, this proposal is also inappropriate. Seven has to stay. Whether it is a party or professional CEC, head of the election headquarters of a coalition or an initiative committee may not be a member of the CEC and enjoy confidence in its independence. In this context, we will not support the proposal that has appeared in the Commission. 7 down. Let this requirement of independence remain in the Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u383	Who is the bearer of this proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u384	I don't see any other comments. I shall put to the vote § 7, which provides for the deletion of part of the existing text. We are voting on this. Article 7 50, para. 3 to drop the words of the election headquarters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u385	First, the motion for dismissal shall be voted on. Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u386	It is the only one supported by the Commission to fall. There's nothing else for him. I'm calling off the vote. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u387	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the order to vote is that the proposals for dropping the relevant paragraph are first voted. You should put the Commission's proposal, which proposes that the paragraph be rejected, first to vote. It's a motion to drop out. We should vote first on the paragraph to be dismissed and, if not adopted, we should proceed to the unsupported text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u388	There's no unsupported text. There's an importer text. The text of the importer is for dropping out and the Commission does not support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u389	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u390	The Commission does not support the text of the importer, which is: the words of the pre-election headquarters shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u391	We propose that the entire paragraph be adopted.. The Commission proposes it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u392	No. Paragraph 7 reads: "In art. 50, para. 3, p. 7 the words of the pre-election headquarters shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u393	And the Commission proposes that the whole paragraph be dismissed. That's a vote first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u394	That's right, but it doesn't have a second one. There is one, and it is the Commission's proposal. I propose that §7 be dropped. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 201 MPs: for 199, against 2 abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. The text of § 7 is out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u395	................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1 sentence, second words, the choice, respectively, shall be deleted. 2. In para. 3 the words "select," respectively "save." The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 8 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u396	Statements? I can't see. Anyone who agrees to dismiss § 8 by importer, please vote. They voted 198 MPs: 71, against 79, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. The text of the importer remains.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u397	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 (b) and in the rest he did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope. There is also a proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev. In § 9, t. 1 concerning Art. 57 the following amendments shall be made: A/ after point (b), a new point (b) shall be created with the following text: (b) A new point 9a shall be created with the following text: 9a. Determine the templates for voter registration documents, registration information materials as well as the technical rules for registration and information exchange and complaint submission; B/ A new point (g) is created as follows: a new point 33a is created with the following text: It's 33a. Determine the terms and conditions for video surveillance and direct online broadcast with video recording of the ballot census, establishment of the results and preparation of the minutes of the selection committees, acceptance of the minutes of the regional election committees and municipal election committees and the introduction of data in the calculation centres. C/ New point (h) shall be created with the following text: new points 50 and 51 shall be created: 50. determine the arrangements for remote electronic voting and reporting of votes thereof. 51. Takes account of the votes of the remote electronic vote and prepares a protocol. The Commission does not support Maya Manolova's proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10, and in that regard. the following point 1 is inserted in point (j) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* It's 34. determine the terms and conditions for the video surveillance of the census of votes in the sectional election committees; the technical provision of the video surveillance shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers;
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u398	Discussion? Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u399	Madam President, honourable Members! On the subject of video surveillance, I have a few questions to ask the importers, because I personally don't know how this thing is going to happen. It's going to be broadcast directly on the Internet, is that what I'm supposed to know? What do we do with settlements where there's no Internet? Because if some colleagues do not know, there are settlements in Bulgaria where there is no Internet, there is no phone service. I say this once again for colleagues who only sit in big cities and do not know what happens in smaller settlements. There was a program of colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria"...Brohim together...............Broim together..... what was it like..........................I want someone to tell me what the result is precisely from this counting and this video surveillance. Because politics is made not only on yellow pavements, not only in large cities, but we also need to know the nature of work in small towns. I met what was debated in the Commission, honourable colleagues, and Mr. Zarkov said it was okay because the sections in the schools have cameras. However, Mr. Zarkov, I give you an example from my constituency. I made the effort to count the number of sections and where these sections are located in Kardzhali District 497 sections we have in Kardzhali District, 126 are in schools, 28 are in kindergartens, 50 are in community centers, 159 are in town halls, 57 are in private buildings. How exactly are they gonna set up cameras for everyone else outside those 126 schools where there are cameras in the rooms? Now that I understand that there is video surveillance I understand it this way: I am sitting at home and, for example, I want to see what is going on in section X in the yyck area. I go on the Internet, I go on the CEC page, as far as I can tell, it's written, and from there, when I click a button, I need to see exactly what's going on there, how the census happens. That's how I know it. Colleagues may be from Yes Bulgaria will explain to me because there is no clear description of how this is happening. [[Noise and lines from... Democratic Bulgaria.]] Don't scream out of the hall. Please explain to me here. I'm a technical person and I understand these things, so with a little explanation, I think I'll understand them. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u400	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u401	This cameraman, for example, at school, has several cameras. For these cameras is authorized an operator who administers, archives this data. How are they going to happen, how are these 12,000 cameras going to be connected? Where are those monitors gonna be? How exactly are we going to get in? We need a password, maybe we need a platform to download. Please tell us if all 12,000 sections of the House were inspected by them at the time when the ballots were counted. Just to tell you that many of the cameras that are placed in the schools I say this out of experience because for 12 years I have been in elections, many people are worried when they see a camera, because there are more settlements where the vote can be controlled, even if the camera is not released. Remember years ago, there was a case where one of the TV stations saw a camera, people were afraid to go in because they were worried, there was a party that told them that this would control their vote. If the electoral process is directly observed, we must take declarations from the people who come in to vote whether they want to be photographed. [[(Dictionaries from ……]] Don't yell at me, I'm making my assumptions and I expect answers from you, nothing else I say wrong, I don't blame you, I'm also on video surveillance, okay. However, I can tell you at least 50 settlements in Kardzhaliysko, where there is no Internet and you will immediately ask me: and how did the distance learning of the students happen? Well, I'll tell you what, but you need to walk the country a little bit to find out. Thanks to the teachers who were the people who gave heart and soul, the materials that trained children to be allowed on buses to use landlines. This is how you work in these small settlements that are off Facebook, outside the yellow pavements...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u402	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u403	I'm done. Because in small towns also live people, dear colleagues, smart and beautiful! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u404	Are there any lines? There's a statement on Philip Popov and Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u405	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, GERB manage 11 years Bulgaria. Why is there no Internet in the settlements? Did you now understand that question when the proposal came in?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u406	It's got nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u407	No, it has something to do with it. It has something to do with this because there should be Internet throughout Bulgaria, and thanks to your management there is no coverage in small or larger settlements. How else is it going to work, Mrs. Karayancheva? Yeah, a lot of people are gonna get scared, but those who fake the election are gonna get scared. They'll be scared of those who make the actual ballots invalid, they'll be scared. Otherwise, it's very easy. When it counts advocates, observers, camera will shoot and the whole of Bulgaria will know, the whole of Bulgaria will know what you are doing in the sectional committees. That's what I'm talking about. Why were you afraid in these elections to implement it and your Central Commission, which was, refused to have video surveillance so that you could have the necessary number of votes in... not to say what sections. But I will give you an example: only in the district of.............................................. These are your fans. They're your supporters. There Borisov takes the jeep to give gifts every day.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u408	Here you go, Mr. Filipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u409	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, regarding video surveillance, video recording or internet broadcasting, I would like to point out that this is the issue of the census itself, at the end of the election day, not throughout the day, which deprives you of logic that, in this way, you see, vote traders could account for themselves and count people. Because the video surveillance is already done, so people have already voted, only when counting the ballots. With regard to the declarations, this seems pretty insane to me, even wondering how to comment on it. By your logic it means that every Bulgarian citizen must walk with one badge, with one declaration here on his lapel, because even from the outside, when you leave the National Assembly, where there are cameras, at each intersection there are cameras, in every bank there are cameras, in virtually every institution there are cameras, which means that by your logic everywhere, even we now enter here, have to write a statement that we agree to be filmed because, you see, the person was personal data. This is insane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u410	The line is Ivo Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u411	Mrs. Chairman! Ms. Karayancheva, our platform is not called Broim together.You know that you count together, you at GERB heard with ballots, usually. Our platform is called "You Count." Before I tell you how it works, I'll tell you about the problem with settlements. We have proposed to the CEC and this is a very constructive technical solution months before the previous elections. There is mobile access in every settlement, we have described it in detail, unfortunately, there was no result and no measures were taken for this, and we were ready to help, including technologically. So this is not an argument that in some settlements access was relatively limited, they are few and this is decided very easily technologically, they know very well how mobile operators do it. That won't stop the CEC from organizing the election well. How does it work, you count and how video surveillance will happen and what was in the previous election? In the previous election, colleagues, it was forbidden by the court, remember that? Well, that's why we're voting. And since it was forbidden by the court, we were technologically ready in "You count" there was an opportunity through another application... Mrs. Karayancheva, listen to me when I'm talking to you, because it's very important that you understand it, next time you don't say such things from the stands. When you install the application of "You count" you can immediately in real time on the platform site broadcast what is happening in your section. This is very important for any advocate or observer. And don't scare people that someone's worried they're gonna take his picture. This is about after the election day is over. During the vote itself, the morning from 7.00 to the end of election day no one will be photographed in any way, but after the election day is over, the advocates and observers can remove their phones and film the counting process, not anything else. Taking pictures of the countdown process, anyone who has voted can go home, go to the website of the.. You count and play in real time how his vote counts. That's what we want. We want to ensure the integrity of the electoral process. If he had allowed the court, if that were legally possible, we would have realized it in the last elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u412	Your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u413	Back us up on this. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u414	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u415	Dear colleagues! Thank you for making your coats. First of all, to say that as interesting as it may be, Bulgaria is at the top of the Internet in Europe on fast Internet in Europe, but, unfortunately, there is no access yet in certain places. This is a problem of mobile operators, and perhaps the relief of Bulgaria is not something I can say, I am not a specialist on the issue. Yes, you're right, Mr. Mirchev. Thank you for what you've explained to me, but what I understand is that BSP colleagues have suggested is something completely different. I see that the success rate of your application is not yet covered by the hundred percent that you should have, and the CEC ruled on the fourth day after the election. I think that the guarantor of fair elections are all Bulgarian citizens. The people who participate in the committees. And I would like from here to thank the Bulgarian electoral administration, all members of the SIK who participated in these elections. They were really very difficult and had a long time to sit with the ballots and with the minutes before the regional election committees. Yeah, there may be video surveillance, but you're now out with a definition. In fact, if there is a video surveillance of one and there is no video surveillance in another place, it is also unfair among the Bulgarian voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u416	Are there any other statements? Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u417	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The video surveillance theme is wonderful. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u418	Can we have order in the hall, please? [[Heckling]] Well, there's no personal explanation. Out in the couloirs, you'll explain yourself to a coffee shop. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u419	Now that you've explained yourself, the video surveillance. Now let's come up with some of the product positioning of a software product, which, I guess, is a technical mistake that to this day is still 99%, but in general, it's a good idea. There's something else. The text we are looking at and which is proposed by the Commission is that order is determined by the CEC and is provided by the Council of Ministers. I mean, the phones, unless they're on the Council of Ministers, don't go into that text. Here should enter the video surveillance systems, registration and so on, purchased and provided by the Council of Ministers and not by private phones. Speaking of which, this is where the video surveillance at the schools was mentioned, how the exams could be watched. I bothered to check how many rooms in schools are with such video surveillance. They're 5162. So there are still about 7,000 sections of roughness that don't have video surveillance. It's all good to buy cameras, it'll probably be a quick procedure, only these cameras aren't enough. As technically literate people, we should all understand that. Besides the cameras, there should be a mandatory and additional power supply. Because, imagine, there's some kind of video surveillance going on and suddenly there's an accident, the power cut in the section in question. Everyone's first thought would be that there's manipulation. So these cameras have to have independent power to make sure there's no manipulation. Separately, it's about the Internet. You really need to secure the Internet, and double secure, so there won't be any interruptions. Here, by the way, I'm going to do a clamp with the media theme. After all, these cameras must have either DVR or NVR. People who understand the subject will tell you that without such appliances it will not happen. With a flash drive proposal, it's funny. There's no way they're gonna shoot there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u420	To the text, to the text, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u421	I stick to the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u422	It says here who will determine the terms and conditions, right? When you become a member of the CEC...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u423	And here all I'm saying right now is that this is determined by the CEC and provided by the Council of Ministers. Anything technically could happen. But here the main question is now the time. I have a question to which I hope there will be an answer from the future CEC staff, which will be appointed by the President, and it is: how will it be able to provide all this in two months? That's the main thing. If someone goes to the trouble of calculating how many human hours of work are required only to install these systems, then some major problems will create, and perhaps the CEC and the caretaker government will be unable to implement it. And then what if the new CEC and the office can't handle this task? [[Heckling]] Or maybe we're setting up an impossible task for the caretaker government. Let's think about that, too. And at the end of the day, I'm basically wondering what the effect is going to be when we read in the bill itself that there is a full machine vote. I mean, machines don't count ballots, is that what we're talking about? I mean, the printout comes back, the printout goes to the RIK, and everything comes out? Then what are we talking about, the ballots are all coming down? So this whole cost and this whole effort could be unnecessary and in vain. Every investment in the honesty of elections and rather in people's trust in the honesty of elections is worth it. But let's see if it's possible. And in conclusion, I would say that I will support your text. I hope the next caretaker government can do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u424	The line is Ivo Mirchev. [[Heckling]] They take turns: Krum Zarkov the replica, and Manoil Manev the replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u425	I'll be very quick. Colleague Gazhev, first of all, let me explain to you about the platform. She's 99%, because she collects data from observers and intercessors. That's what they've done, that's how numbered they are. That's the reason. The goal is really to do a parallel census to the extent that it can. What you're saying about the cameras. In the following texts, which we will consider, there is also the possibility that each of the people who are present in the SIC may, with their own phone, shoot a record or in real time. This requires absolutely nothing from the state, from the CEC, from the Council of Ministers. The goal here is for everyone to be able to pass to the maximum extent to ensure the vote at their discretion. It is clear that there is no way in classrooms right now to make such equipment to ensure such a high quality of broadcasting and so on, not to mention individual networks. But this opportunity must be foreseen, and that is the goal. Colleagues from GERB, I sincerely hope that you will support us with regard to video surveillance, although everything was done in the last elections not to have video surveillance in the sections. Our appeal to you is to support us because I believe it is in everyone's interest to have an honest election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u426	Colleagues, I'm paying attention to you because as the day progresses, we're getting tired. Please, at second reading, we are talking about texts, not video surveillance at all, at all, about CEC and at all. Mr. Zarkov. [[People from different parliamentary groups want the floor.]] They take turns, don't they? Well you have a basic, you have a first line, a second line of another group, a third line. If there's another group, I'll give it to her, but since there isn't, I'll give it to Mr. Manev. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u427	Thank you, Madam President, thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gazhev, through you and the questions Ms. Karayancheva asked. They're legit, in the sense, they have to be asked, but unfortunately, there's still a mix-up. I'll try to bring some clarity. The report is really complex, the proposals are many, the groups are different. The text that we are now looking at and to which Madam President has returned us has been adopted. The text is proposed by the BSP to use the available infrastructure where it exists and to centralize the broadcast via the CEC page. This text is not contradicted and is not an alternative to the idea developed by the "There is such a people" and protected by the "Democratic Bulgaria" for anyone who has the opportunity to photograph with a personal means, to transmit it where there is the Internet, or to record it in order to later use it in a dispute. That's the kind of text we signed. How it's going to happen, you're absolutely right to ask. Further in the report, you will see that there is a signature of what is possible to be signed, as are scheduled and cases where, for technical or other reasons, this cannot happen in certain places so as not to serve as an excuse for integrity. That is, we have tried, and this may be one of the differences with the previous National Assembly, in a debate to combine the different ideas, so that we can achieve as full coverage as possible for video surveillance from the end of election day, because this is an important issue, until the protocol is drawn up. And yes, you are right to stress that the sectional election committees are making great efforts and this is a great burden for them. Unfortunately, however, for many reasons, which you are not foreign, I regret that I have to say this, to a large extent people do not trust in the way the results are reported. And that's why it's necessary. Not for the SICs, not so much for ourselves as for voters, so that they are absolutely convinced that everything is done to be transparent. We had this debate about machines. Yes, there are difficulties, but these difficulties must be overcome in the name of greater participation and greater security of voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u428	Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u429	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Gazhev, first of all, you are wrong in part of your statement that there will be no counting. As far as I know, the texts exclude settlements with less than 300 voters, where there will be ballots and counting anyway. The question is this. We adopt a law, and the best thing is to take a stand in your speech. Unfortunately, with the topics that have opened up with the lines that have made you colleagues, I do, and time will not be enough for your duplicate, but let one of the other colleagues who is doing this answer a few questions. First of all, we're going to do it for all the sections. This is the technical option, isn't it?! So we're going to invest money on equipment. I understand that with personal phones, too, there's no harm in it. Colleague importers to understand whether it will be recorded or whether it will be broadcast is of great importance. We will not talk to the legal topics........................................................................................................ that this can be used as evidence. You can tell because I heard such a statement just now. It's not important, what's important is that we predict a machine where there won't be a countdown; however, we will provide video surveillance for the countdown, so it's written in the text. And we're doing all this for how much in three days, and it had to happen for a lot more. By the way, I have a question that I am asking to you, and you, as the bearer of the rights to speak, ask it to the other colleagues: who is the property of this platform that we are so commenting on here? The ownership of the platform you are counting is very interesting. Just so we know it, word is she's gonna have something to do with it. Last, colleagues, colleague, please respond to your colleagues that unlike the previous National Assembly, when we did something, we provided it in all our proposals with the money that will be spent. Now all is given, and who will pay for it God knows. Take a look at your colleagues for this, please. In the end, I was curious, do you know where else there is such video surveillance in the election? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Russia. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u430	Will there be a hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u431	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear replicating, thank you for some of the clarification. I didn't know that Russia was the only one with such video surveillance, and I have no idea what the ownership of the platform was. I can't answer those questions. As for the other two lines, mostly new questions have awakened from them. We are currently discussing the order provided by the Council of Ministers. Okay, well, we'll assume there'll be some phone surveillance. However, there are some other texts here that the technical media from the video surveillance are taken and referred to the RICs and the CEC. Does that mean we're gonna collect people's phones? [[Heckling]] This, in my opinion, is a clear question, since there will be video surveillance from private and private networks and phones. My concern is that the whole two texts will rather create distrust in the electoral process for the simple reason that the Council of Ministers will not be able to manage to secure it. By the way, this is a shared concern from you. It would be really difficult for after two months, in my opinion, and after six months for the regular presidential elections to be fully state-owned. Let us not forget that we are talking about video surveillance of sections abroad, as I see no distinction between sections in the country and sections abroad, but about all sections. To what extent this effort would actually make sense, given that there wouldn't be a countdown, I don't know. I can't answer that question. A little further, as far as I am concerned by a large majority, it will be assumed that the vote will only be on a machine. In the machine, what do the sectional committees count?! I mean, what are they gonna film exactly how the printout comes out of the machine?! Fine, let's have it, but the problem is that again we fear that it will not succeed, will create more tension in the electoral process and thus will not improve people's trust in the electoral process. I hope I'm wrong and that makes sense. In this regard, Madam President, to postpone the vote on this paragraph until the adoption of this for personal recording systems, because if it turns out that the text for filming with personal phones is not accepted, for example, it will mean that the work of the Council of Ministers will be blocked. [[Heckling]] If it's accepted, let's see. My point is, we don't want to do a bear favor for the caretaker government.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u433	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I'm doing the same procedure. I understand that there is the will of the majority to accept the video surveillance, but I propose that, after we vote § 39, which says: "video surveillance of the census, and if it is accepted, and it is likely to be accepted, we return to the text we have now discussed with regard to the powers of the CEC and the obligations of the CEC and the Council of Ministers on video surveillance. I think that would be wise. You, judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u434	Mrs. Atanasova, there's an order to clean up contradictions in the text and it's the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u435	Mrs. Doncheva, there are no contradictions. There is a procedure for a motion to postpone a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u436	It's okay now. If there are contradictions with subsequent texts, we will clear them in the final order established in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u437	Mrs. Doncheva, I have made a procedure to postpone the vote. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u438	Is there a reverse procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u439	Back-to-back procedural proposal, let's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u440	There has been a procedural proposal to postpone the vote by Mrs. Atanasova. I'm putting it to the vote. They voted 199 MPs: for 72, against 124, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to voting mode. § 9, which will become § 10. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev in art. 57 which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: for 9, against 65, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer to create a new item. 34 in art. 57 in the powers of the CEC, with text: It's 34. determine the terms and conditions for the video surveillance of the census of votes in the sectional election committees; the technical provision of the video surveillance shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers; Vote 204 MPs: 138, against 64, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u441	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11, with the following text: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence first after the number 2. A new para is being created. 4. (4) The decisions of the Central Election Commission, other than the cases under para. 1 may be appealed to the administrative court concerned within three days of their announcement. The Court of Justice shall examine the appeal and rule by a decision within three days of receipt of the complaint by calling on the applicant, the Central Election Commission and the interested parties. The court's decision shall be announced without delay and may be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court within three days of its announcement. The Supreme Administrative Court shall examine the appeal in accordance with para. 3. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it, after the word "Prime" is added "Publishing of the common administrative acts
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u442	Statements? I can't see. Please, a voting regime for such proposals § 11 with the adjustments of art. 58. Vote 202 MPs: 132, against 68, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u443	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u444	Paragraph 11 statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u445	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, § 11 of the Report concerns art. 59 of the current Election Code. It states that the Central Election Commission appoints regional electoral committees and the proposal we are now considering is not to appoint regional electoral committees outside the country. Could you explain to me, Mr. Chairman, or one of the importers, because it doesn't say who's importing this text. It says that the Commission supports it. Dear Mr. Chairman, what does it require and who will appoint the Regional Election Commission for the multi-mandated electoral region outside the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u446	Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u447	Mrs. Atanasova, on page 50 of § 30, p. 2: The Regional Election Commission shall perform the functions of the Regional Election Commission for the multi-mandated electoral region outside the country. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u448	Nothing gets erased. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova.]] Any other speeches? I can't see. Voting regime for § 11, which becomes § 12. They voted 201 MPs: 107 against 69, abstention 25. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u449	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u450	Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode. Vote 204 MPs: 134 against 70 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u451	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u452	Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode. Vote 198 MPs: 128 against 69, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u453	Now is the proposal of Mrs. Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev for the creation of § 13a. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 288a. Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 1, t. 26 Finally added the technical media from the video surveillance cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u454	Statements? Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u455	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take the floor once in all because there are several proposals that are in this sense from the importers from the BSP for Bulgaria. I hope to get an answer from them how do they see it exactly to happen this and the following texts? What are we looking at right now? This is the Regional Election Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u456	Who are you referring to next, Mr. Gadget?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u457	On which there is a similar proposal with importers and so on. They had other similar suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u458	No, no, they're not more like that. There is only one such thing as BSP for Bulgaria with the three importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u459	That's right. Okay. To read exactly what is proposed: the Regional Election Commission to transmit to the Central Election Commission the copy of the minutes of the Regional Election Commission, the copies of the minutes of the section election committees and so on, and so on, the technical media from the video surveillance cameras. I would understand that if the monitoring was provided by the Central Election Commission through the Council of Ministers, as we had just argued. But if the version of video surveillance by citizens, which text there is earlier, please, if you could explain, how exactly is this transmission of the technical camera carriers going to happen? These people will be provided with SD cards in advance by the Council of Ministers and then the Council of Ministers will collect them through the CEC, or will they simply donate these carriers to the RIKs and subsequently to the CEC? This, in my opinion, is important to specify exactly how it will happen so that it is clear, however, in the future, at least what the spirit of the importer was, so to speak, and of the legislator in the future quite complex work of the Central Election Commission in providing video surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u460	Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u461	In addition to what colleague Gajev asked, I would like to ask where exactly the camera should be placed so that there can be such a angle that he can see, photograph the countdown? Because you know that the cameras in the classrooms are placed above the door or a little bit more sideways. Where exactly should the camera be placed? This thing has to be noted in my opinion, because since it's going to take a shot of the countdown, that means it's going to take a picture of the ballots, and it's going to take a picture of the protocol. [[Heckling]] On top of that, I'm not asking the Commission to... [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] Mr. Gajev, this is for you, but this is for colleagues just another question I'd like to ask specifically for video surveillance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u462	It concerns a text in which the powers of the Regional Election Commission are regulated. The Regional Election Commission, etc. 26, which is in the original text: signs to the CIC the copy of the minutes of the Regional Election Commission, the copies of the CEC protocols intended for the CEC, the receipts from the computer processing of the SIC protocols, a copy of the computer printout of the minutes and the decision of the RIK provided by the calculation point, and two technical media with numerical data from the processing of the SIC protocols, as well as the recording technical devices from the machine voting. What has now been added is: the technical media from the video surveillance cameras. Let us not tell stories with an unexpected end.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u463	There's nothing to tell. I just want to know if it needs to be marked somewhere exactly where the camera will be placed with such a angle that it can pick up specific locations?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u464	Colleague Karayancheva, we write text, not re-story. The text is: the powers of the RIK and its duties where, what to transmit. Colleagues have written down what to surrender.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u465	Don't lawyer up your coworkers. Let the importers come out and say. Don't lawyer them up. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u466	It becomes clear that there is no need for clarification. Are there any other statements on the text? Mr. Zarkov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u467	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Gazhev, Mrs. Karayancheva and Mr. Hamid, who are actively arguing! Mr. Gazhev, this is the third time I may have said this, but I'm not gonna save time as long as we find out. It's about two different techniques. One is the one with a stationary camera, transmission of the CEC and where the technical medium will be worn in order to be able to serve in any dispute. Another, not alternative, is the one proposed by the colleagues, where they are filmed with the device with which the advocate submitted, which is the object of the dispute, which opposed the CEC and "Democratic Bulgaria" in the court which reached Luxembourg, if I am not mistaken, and so on. That's two different things. I hope you can understand this time. What we are proposing is another system that is stepping on existing infrastructure. And now I'm telling you, Madam President, I was going to say once a chairman, always a chairman, as they say, but the incoming, incoming infrastructure that exists now. So the cameras will be where they are. I don't know if because I have little kids, it's visible enough. Where they are not, the Council of Ministers will make an effort to have them. Here I take advantage of telling you a small difference that will be essential. Until a few months ago, the Council of Ministers was constantly running away from its responsibilities under this code, transferring everything to the CEC, and there was very bad communication between these two bodies, which affected the process. I hope that the next Council of Ministers will approach in good faith, namely in good faith there are the questions that you are asking less in good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u468	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u469	Dear colleagues from GERB, Dear Mrs Karayancheva, Dear Mr. Gazhev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u470	To whom?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u471	Both of you. Do not attempt to turn Parliament into a technical service. Here is a political body and here we are discussing, Ms. Karayancheva, whether there is political will to hold fair, transparent elections, with filming and everything that has been spoken. You're talking to me here about wiring, what angle would the camera be, what would it be? The point is that this is not a technical service, this is a political body and political decisions are made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u472	Mr. Gajev, are you one of the last defenders of the Brest Fortress? I'm looking here... [[Radio and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u473	I'm actively involved in the debate, as you can see.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u474	The others are obliged to hold the quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u475	Madam President, as you can see, I am actively involved in the debate. Now first to Mr. Prodanov. The point is that what is written on paper should be able to be implemented and practically so as not to create additional bombs on the process. Because it's one thing to talk to each other, and here we can write that we want to put a man on the moon in law, but technically it has to be possible. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So let's not get it wrong. The two things have to go. What we are doing as legislation must still be feasible because we want authorities to implement it. It is logical to also deal with the technical details of how it will actually be implemented. This is where I return to my colleague Zarkov and his line. Dear Mr. Zarkov, this means that there are two different systems. I mean, one of the cameras gets the surveillance, and the other one gets the surveillance, and why doesn't it come together? You get a double process, and that could lead to further chaos. Because in your proposal and in what is approved as an amendment to the Commission, it is not clear anywhere that it is only cameras provided by the Council of Ministers. It says, "Everyone." That's what it says. That's the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u476	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u477	To all video surveillance cameras. Then some lawyers, smarter than us, I suppose, might consider this to be a video surveillance carried out by people's phone cameras, right? A very strange process is being created. That is why I say that the whole thing is there at the moment, and it is not technical, but practical problems that may subsequently affect the entire electoral process. Of course, that wouldn't be a problem if you had time to debate. Unfortunately, there was no debate. The Commission has reduced the deadline for three days. There was no time to discuss each other normally at all. The real debate that we should have had before, now we're bringing him here, for the simple reason that there was no physical possibility of when to be held before that. As I recall, and you were against these short deadlines so that there could still be a clear political debate about the practical conduct of the elections. After all, to have a good code, not a fucking code that might become.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u478	I don't see any other speeches. We vote § 15, which becomes § 17. We are voting on the Commission's proposal, which has supported the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u479	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u480	We are voting for the creation of § 15. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u481	We vote on page 26 upstairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u482	The creation of § 15. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, I'm putting it to the vote again to make it clear on page 26 above. They voted 136 MPs: 121, against 8, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u483	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u484	Statements? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u485	Please then and § 15 to vote, which becomes § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u486	They voted 133 MPs: 123 against 7, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u487	Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev: A new § 15a is being created as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85, para. 10 a new sentence is created second: the Commission's meetings, which are adopted, reviewed or corrected by the sectional election committees, data is entered and results are calculated, candidates for electoral posts may also be present. Sentence two becomes sentence three. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u488	Statements? I can't see. Please vote on Mrs. Manolova's proposal, Mr. Angelov and Mr. Yonchev. They voted 124 MPs: 8 against 65, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u489	Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 1, t. 32 Finally added the technical media from the video surveillance cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u490	I don't see any speeches. Please, voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: 126, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u491	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u492	I don't see any speeches. Please, voting mode. They voted 125 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u493	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 18, which becomes§ 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u494	Statements? I can't see. Please vote on both paragraphs. They voted 132 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 1. The proposal for the two paragraphs shall be accepted. [[National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva wants the floor.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u495	Dear Madam President, I take advantage of the procedure on behalf of a group I want a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u496	Take 15 minutes off. It's 2:50, 3:05 p.m. we're moving on. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u497	I think we can continue our session. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Legal Committee, report the texts. I hope this meeting will be more successful today.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u498	Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 272 and 288a. Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev for the creation of a new § 19b. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 272 and 288a. Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev for the creation of a new § 19c. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 272 and 288a. Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev for the creation of a new § 19 The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 272 and 288a. Proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133, para. 3, p. 5 after the words supplied by the party, the party is added.. or qualified electronic signature..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u499	I am voting on the Commission's proposal, of course, if there are no speakers. When I don't see a hand raised, I don't think I need to waste time asking. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 23. They voted 125 MPs: for 93, against 3, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u500	Proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva concerning art. 140, para. 3. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. 3, p. 6 persons authorised by the Coalition shall be added after the words, and after the words, a self-supplied, or qualified, electronic signature shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u501	I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 24. Voted 129 MPs: 127 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u502	On page 1, page 1, 37 The proposal of the MPs Ahmed Ahmedov, Hamid Hamid and Tsvetan Enchev: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181, para. The second sentence is created: "In cases where the campaign is conducted in another language, translation is provided in Bulgarian. " The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u503	Are there any statements on this text? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u504	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are looking at the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code in the absence of dialogue between political groups. The lack of communication and consensus, in addition to denying parliamentaryism, calls democracy into question. Especially when we adopt amendments to the Election Code with these unprincipled actions. These changes are a prerequisite for chaos and manipulation of elections. With these actions, we increase political apathy, but especially young people. You all talk about our future, but when you speak with the language of hatred and opposition, you steal our future. You colleagues, on the left and right of the DPS, we all speak the same language from this tribune, but, alas, we do not understand each other. These actions once again violate the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. We appeal to stop with the language of hatred and opposition. We of the DPS once again propose to allow the agitation in mother tongue. The ban discriminates against minorities in Bulgaria and Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that has such a ban. When our representatives in the European Union vote for similar texts, for linguistic diversity, they compete who is the European, but when they vote in the Bulgarian Parliament, they apply another archin. Dear colleagues, we treat the official language with great respect the Bulgarian language. We don't want to cancel. Our proposal is when another language is spoken during an election campaign, apart from the Bulgarian one, to have a translation provided. We're counting on reason to prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u505	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmet. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, from the very beginning of the plenary day, we are discussing the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code and the rules under which the next elections will be held. We from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are once again putting forward a proposal to abolish the ban on agition in a language other than the one in office during elections. A ban which, honourable Members, violates fundamental human rights, a ban that violates the Constitution of Bulgaria and a ban that violates the European Convention on Human Rights. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 of the European Charter, which regulates freedom of expression and defines the right to free expression of views and ideas in an accessible and understandable language for all participants in the campaign, without the right of states to intervene regardless of state borders. Dear colleagues, 31 years from the beginning of the democratic changes and 14 years since Bulgaria is a full member of the European Union, 11 years from which we are managed by GERB and their coalition partners, Bulgaria is today the only member country in the European Union, notice the only member country in the European Union in which country in the electoral legislation is subject to restrictions against some of the Bulgarian citizens. For us, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, language has always been a means of communication and communication between people. Unfortunately, this is not the case for GERB and their coalition partners over the past 11 years, because you honourable Members are using the language not as a means of communication but as a means of discrimination against some of the Bulgarian citizens. What my colleague said before me that you are going to Brussels, going to the European Union and talking about linguistic diversity. You go back to Bulgaria and forbid languages. And in order to understand the newly elected colleagues at what level is today democracy in Bulgaria before 1989, during the totalitarian regime, the fine for speaking, to be exact, was BGN 20 in Turkish. Today in European Bulgaria, the fine for agitation in a language other than the Bulgarian language, other than the official language, is BGN 2000. Let each Bulgarian citizen take his own account of this, honourable Members, where Bulgaria is going today! In the Bulgarian elections can also participate non-Bulgarian citizens from the European Union. For example, the leader of the list of GERB can be Manfred Weber. And I immediately ask myself the question: will he be fined the same way that my colleagues and candidate MPs and other people who participated in the elections were fined? Therefore, we in the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms urged all parliamentary elected parties in the forty-fifth National Assembly, first of all, to determine whether they are part of the large European family and whether they are for democratic values in Bulgaria? We believe that the proposal, which makes the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, once again, when campaigning during elections, to have an interpreter and to be able to agitate in a mother tongue. We think that this proposal is reasonable and we ask you to support this proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u507	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Is there a line on that statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Capon, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u508	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I give a personal opinion not on behalf of the parliamentary group I will support the importers. [[Applause from DPS.]] I'll tell you why. If we want, since we have been talking all this time about talking about human rights, we voted today an important text and it was the protection of our civil rights. If we believe that in regions like the village of Beela, I want to be able to talk to Bulgarian citizens, I think it is normal to have a translator. I will not accept, and I say it personally, I will not accept the ultranationalist speeches that are in society about what we should do when it comes to human rights! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u509	Thank you, dear Mrs. Capon. - What's the line? I can't see. For a statement? Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'll be very brief. Because you can't be a little human rights defender or just that much to defend rights, or just someone's rights, because that's fascism in some kind of form without sticking strictly to terminology. So, either we defend the rights of all Bulgarian citizens as they are, and that means in full or not. So, in my personal opinion, as we defend everyone's rights, we must also protect someone's rights. Yes, even if it's about three people in the village of Bee, as Mrs. Capon said, it doesn't matter to us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u511	Thank you, dear Mr. Hadjigenov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ahmed Ahmedov, Hamid Hamid and Tsvetan Enchev. Vote 181 MPs: 41, against 122, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. You may proceed, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u512	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u513	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 25. 135 MPs voted: 124, against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u514	Under § 21, there is a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vassileva and Toshko Hadjitodorov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 26 by the following text: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 206 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: , (1) In the polling section, the voter shall vote with the engine vote ballot, except in the cases referred to in art. 212, para. Art. 5 and art. 269. 2. In para. 3 words have chosen to be saved.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u515	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u516	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we discussed this topic in the previous meeting, I again took an attitude. But today I am not going to dwell on what I have spoken before, because it is known, and the problem is that people are worried about voting like this is the fact that 27% have only voted machine, 73% have voted on paper, should suggest that this text should not be supported, but should remain the text that is in the Election Code that has been acting so far. But I want to tell you some details about voting with a machine, because the vote itself and the adoption of the machine itself takes place on Saturday. I'll tell you a process of accepting the documents. At 2:00 they accept the documents, collect several committees that are in the same direction. I'm talking about the way machines are delivered to small towns. Then a few people in the section are waiting for the machine to come to be delivered. So by 8:30, 9:00, 10:00 on the Saturday day before the election. The next day, the members of the selection election commission start at 6:00 p.m. to open the election section at 7.00 p.m. It's all Sunday, Monday night there we create problems, discomfort, but the machines are already a fact. There is one major problem, however, that I would like to sharpen your attention to, and why shouldn't there just be a machine vote? In the previous parliament, I was the one who was very urged and thanking my colleagues for supporting me to introduce the paper vote. Imagine in thirteen hours, if a vote by four minutes one voter can vote 195 voters in this section. We have sections not 100 or 200 people, we have sections 700, 800, 900, 1,000 people. We're 240 MPs here, colleagues. So, we all here in one election day won't be able to vote. The other thing is, the stream isn't one after the other. You know how the vote happens during the elections, how voters come more and less. There are times when there's no one in the election section. That means there will be voters who will not be able to exercise their right to vote. And that's kind of discrimination. Let me give you an example. It took the president nearly five minutes to figure out how to vote on the machine, although he himself said that we were all used to pulling money from an ATM. Yeah, but there's a long line in front of the election room. Imagine someone who can't handle such a technique and starts to wonder. I'm talking to you from practical experience so that you can really understand what's going on, because I see that most of you are theorists. The guy gets in front of the machine and starts wondering exactly how to do that. It's 10, 15 minutes, the line outside is sitting. A member of the committee comes and starts showing him and explaining to him. So where does the secret of the vote go?! It is therefore important, colleagues, let there be a paper ballot, so that there may be an alternative to these people voting. Don't forget another very important moment. In small settlements, if, for example, the current shuts down, or whatever it is, the machine can operate on a battery no more than two, maximum up to three hours, I don't know exactly what the technique is, what time it can operate on a battery. She has to go online. If there's no electricity in this place, what happens? [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Communicating: "Eee! ")]] You won't be able to vote and the vote will fail. [[Noise and lines.]] The other thing is the machine is breaking down. As far as I know in this version of the CEC recommendations, there is no change of this machine. What if there's no paper bulletin? Wait, your constituents are most worried about machines! [[turns to the left of the room]] [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Listen to what I'm telling you, then you'll have a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u517	It didn't last 10 seconds yet, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u518	Filling out the declaration. It's kind of an opportunity to control the vote when you want to vote with paper, to fill out a declaration. And the other thing is very important.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u519	Time's up, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u520	How will voting and distribution of machines be carried out abroad?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u521	We understand, Mrs. Karayancheva. Time is up. Maybe you can finish in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u522	Maybe I'll keep going in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u523	Are there any lines? There are three lines already stated. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u524	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Karajancheva, if you had voted on a machine, we wouldn't be listening to this tirade here from this tribune. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] . These tirads we listened to in the previous parliament when you created this chaos in which people couldn't pass on the protocols for two days because they couldn't fill in this protocol to carry one data from one place, one data from the other. And to tell you the BSP voters voted with the machines and everything was fine. But your constituents need to talk to them, because such an attitude... [[Relations of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Such statements that you make here from this tribune, such suggestions, they have only one purpose to push people away and to be able to continue this vicious practice of a controlled vote, which was made by one of your vice-presidents. And you guys keep making it. But to my delight today, this thing will be put to an end! And I am really not surprised by these statements of yours why the digitalization of Bulgaria is at such a zero level. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u525	It and electrification is obviously a problem. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u526	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Ms. Karajancheva, I honestly do not even know why you are trying to explain to them what difficulties they will face and the President will make these elections. There is one thought: never prevent the opponent from wronging. They're wrong right now. When a machine blocks, it will be their fault and the president. The CEC is theirs, the caretaker government is theirs, the president is theirs. So you'd better wish them luck. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u527	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Mr. Svilensky, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u528	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, briefly lived your idea of having a machine and paper vote at the same time. I took the line to tell you about this section I told you about just now, in which 800 voters 780 took part in the vote. Of these 780 for GERB voted 730, and of these 730 on paper are 728 and 2 per machine. You understand why you want the paper vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u529	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u530	Don't you see why? Let me make this very clear to you. Because with paper ballots only you can win elections. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Once the machines are introduced, when honesty comes in the sections, GERB can never win the election, not the first place, but perhaps the percentage barrier.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u531	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u532	Dear Mr. Svilenski, the first parliamentary elections that GERB makes are this year. As you can see in the last four choices that are being made, they have always been by the caretaker government, and we have never worried about how this will happen. It is important to tell people what policies we will make. It is important to explain what we have done so far and what we will do from now on. I advise you: follow our path, so win elections! Now, I would like to commend the proposal of a people such that there will be one protocol for machine voting and one protocol for paper voting. That's why I'm really congratulating you because it's important. I am surprised at this selfless defense of the machine vote when the leaders of the parties who are here voted on paper. The president voted with a machine and he couldn't fix it for five minutes. [[Noise and lines.]] Finally, I thank Mr. Bikov for the advice he gave me to, the elections will be made by you, your CEC, your caretaker government: I wish you success! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u533	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. Any other speeches? First, Mr. Lyuben Dilov raised his hand. Mr. Genov. There's gonna be a big discussion here. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u534	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am addressing the importers with a really well-meaning question. I am saving the need to explain why we are in such a hurry to change this legislation, why we are not following the good democratic practice.. election laws to change in elections, as adopted around the world, so that we do not get the impression that every next person who feels strong in this room is trying to make the electoral legislation a glove that fits exactly his hand. But explain to us: the whole plea we heard about this law was about giving different voting opportunities, being able to vote in the mail, being able to vote remotely, electronically, over the Internet. What's the problem with being able to vote with both a machine and paper? Give me more opportunities! Why do we have to limit our options? For example, if religion does not allow me to touch machines, what do we do? [[Laughter at ISN, ISV, DB.]] If I'm a Pastarian, for example! What can we do about not voting?! [[Radio, lines.]] No, I'm setting a comic example on purpose because we're trying to give more opportunities, aren't we? Aren't we trying to get as many Bulgarians into this process as possible? Because the real responsibility is the shared responsibility for both the good and the bad elections. At least the Bulgarians, you know, and for their bad elections or for the good ones, this is how it happened. Whether to gather under the balcony of Vazov or here in this room to curse who is guilty, responsibility is shared. In my opinion, there is no life and political logic in trying to limit a way of voting on paper. Let's solve both, what's the problem! One more thing that's important. They're making very bold proposals. At the moment, a credit is being drawn with unclear who will pay it. It was only right for these debates to be held in an existing and working government. Finally, something in the field of spying hypotheses, to ask you, are we trying to make such an uncertain electoral law that some failed parliamentary elections in July, which we are obviously walking towards, provide a caretaker government that will lead to elections in October and November? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Is that not the point, people ask themselves?! In three days, three days for proposals, of which two weekends! Tell me which other bill in Bulgaria has passed three days for proposals between first and second readings, on which two days are Saturday and Sunday? If you could point me in the right direction, I'd really appreciate it, maybe I don't know! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u535	Thank you, dear Mr. Dilov. - What's the line? First it was Svilenski, Bozhankov, Popov. I didn't see anyone else. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. [[Reply on the right.]] I'd take turns if I'd seen one of the other groups, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Dilov, you're right. There should be an opportunity, electronic, paper, all kinds of possibilities. However, the problem to get to the engine vote is the corruption of the paper vote over the years - 600 thousand invalid ballots in 2019. Six hundred thousand! It's half parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u537	Because they were local back then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u538	It doesn't matter what election. Unnecessary ballots! There are no other countries where there are such a high percentage of invalid ballots. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] A whole parliamentary group would stay out of parliament, Mr. Dilov! The problem is that in Bulgaria there is GERB, in the other countries there is no vote, there is no corrupt vote. [[((Comments from GERB-SDS.))]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u539	Don't shout from the ground!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u540	No counterfeit ballots, no forged protocols! That's the problem! The problem is not in voting. People know how to vote both with paper and machine. The question is then what happens to the representatives of the committees who either make the ballots invalid or write them as they see fit in the protocols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u541	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line? Mr. Bojankov, come in. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, you have the opportunity to dodge, to make speeches by yelling, you can't hear what...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u542	Dear Mr. Dilov, given the parliamentary group you represent, it does not suit you to talk about legislative equipment. I will remind you in the last term how half-slept Mr. Kirilov at the Legal Committee in the middle of the night at 01.00, tried to cancel the preferential vote, the next day in the Chamber at 9.00, the MPs voted several hours later on a report which was supplemented on the move and here in the Chamber, one text came to absurds to be voted three times by you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u543	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Philip Popov for a replica, then a duplicate, then Manol Genov will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u544	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dilov, you talked about opportunities, we will not allow for manipulation of elections by introducing the engine vote. We are not going to give the opportunity to film how they vote, who they vote for, and how they do it. We're not gonna give you an opportunity with a code of preferences to control your votes. Finally, we will not give opportunities for such a large number of invalid votes. In a rule of law, in a democratic state in the last local elections there were nearly half a million invalid votes because of paper ballots. So we will not give them up with the amendment to the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u545	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. [[Heckling]] Mr. Dilov's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u546	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to the people who gave me a line. My questions were to the importers, I don't know why the Reds decided to rush to answer, maybe it excites them that my public name is Lyuben Dilov-son. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] I understand from your lines that last parliament was very bad. Let's assume so! And that is now sufficient reason to assume that this Parliament must be very bad too. I mean, if the last parliament made laws on a knee in two days, in the middle of the night, let's make this one, because the last one was bad. I also found out that there were a lot of null and void ballots. I will not go into details about local elections how much more complicated it is with the preferential ballots there and what determines the complexity of the reading of the vote afterwards. But were the presidential elections corrupted, gentlemen? Were they corrupted? [[Heckling]] Why don't we say anything about the last presidential election? Were they very bad, were they very bad ballots? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] What happened? Think again! More opportunities! More freedom! And the saddest part is you know what it is? That we're arguing purely party-like about some stuff, and we're skipping very important debates that should always accompany the debate on election legislation. For example, the debate on the language that the DPS raised again. A great debate on which, if we were the worthy and responsible national parliament, there would have been four hours of debate here. Because this is indeed a human rights issue, and I congratulate my colleague Hadjigenov on his speech. There's no democracy! There's no pregnant woman! If there is democracy, it must be complete. Let's give more opportunities! The only way to cure the handicaps of democracy is with more democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u547	Thank you, dear Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u548	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u549	I didn't realize it was in the way of conduct, Mr. Genov. A little louder! Come on in the way of holding you up to see what kind of claims you have on me!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u550	Mr. Vigenin, I have an extremely high claim to you. You allowed Mrs. Karajancheva to lie twice from this tribune that the President needed a few minutes to deal with the voting machine. I don't know, maybe you sent a spy, Mrs. Karayancheva, to measure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u551	I saw it on TV.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u552	I see she's raising her hand to Mr. Vigenin, and I'm addressing you, so don't let her lie about this tribune a third time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u553	It was on TV.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u554	I won't. I wasn't sure what was true, so I didn't comment on it. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Wait, Mr. Bikov, what do you need it for?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u555	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u556	We're listening to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u557	Mr. Vigenin, first this procedure in the way of Mr. Genov came after another speech. Mrs. Karayancheva spoke a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u558	He's got a point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u559	Secondly, explain to Mr. Genov that the President has indeed been delayed by the vote for a long time because he was wondering which party to vote for. [[(Applause, laughter and cheering by GERB-SDS: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u560	Now I suggest we get back to the subject of the debate. We'll take turns in groups, so there's such a people here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u561	Abandoning our country from digitalisation, behind in programs, such as a remote vote cannot be a reason to continue to hold back and delay a much easier method of voting, such as engine voting. This cannot be a brake, as all young people are extremely easy to understand how this is happening. And I can't help but comment on Mr. Lyuben Dilov's statement that someone might be afraid of a machine vote. Fifty percent of the Bulgarians did not vote in the previous elections, which means that they are either afraid of the machine touch or the marker pen. This is not the way and this is not the thing to stop the Bulgarians from voting. We need to stimulate these people to understand that they benefit from doing so. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u562	Thank you, dear Mr. Chorbanov. For a line? Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva, Mrs. Alexandrova second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u563	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Chorbanov! We don't have anything against digitalization, but let's make this smooth, not once we stop the paper vote. [[noise and lines]] Well, let's leave...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u564	Colleagues, let's listen to each other anyway! Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u565	...let the voters decide what to vote on. There are further choices in which gradually, gradually, this transition to machines can be made, although I do not know which European country is being voted machine and thus. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u566	We could go first. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u567	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Chorbanov, with all due respect to you, as you can see, we are introducing a full machine vote, but from what you have said, and I understand from your statement that we should provide such opportunities and that is the way. Not to take away the right of people to vote on the Constitution, but to give them more opportunities. And I dare say that, yes, the withdrawal of the vote with the paper ballot of the Bulgarian voter is unconstitutional and I am convinced of that. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u568	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. For a line? Here's a line. [[(Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Meow": "Meow"! Meow!]] Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u569	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chorbanov, I am also of the opinion that we should allow those citizens who want to exercise their vote with the paper ballot to do so. I see we're voting in three days on the Election Code. The different opinions and opinions of the various institutions that have cash-pooling with it were not accepted, but at least pay attention to the opinion of the Public Council of the CEC, which says that machine voting is good to be introduced gradually, and for 2021 it is recommended to continue voting with the paper ballot. I think it is extremely important to take into account the opinions of the bodies involved in the electoral process in order to ensure maximum honesty and transparency of the vote. In addition, at the meeting of the Legal Committee, representatives also expressed an opinion from Ciela that machine software can be easily replaced accordingly. How will the particularity of the vote be guaranteed? Thank you. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u570	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelkova. Let's finish the procedure first. Mr. Chorbanov, would you like the back of the three lines? You don't want to. The way you're holding Mr. Dilov. I think you're starting to abuse this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u571	On the contrary, Mr. Chairman. I sincerely sympathize with you, and it is the last thing I would like you to be under the impression that you are not being very successful as Parliament Speaker. I just want to point out, Mr. Chairman, that in the left-hand side, someone is constantly meowing. It's really the month of May, maybe they're in heat, maybe that's what the promise of a term works for them... [[Laughter]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u572	Mr. Dilov, please respectfully treat the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u573	They were meowing while our colleague was talking. Maybe you haven't heard. Thank you very much. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u574	I'm also making a remark to everyone who makes noises from a place, yells and so forth. I ask you to speak only from the stands. Wait a minute! I can see you, there's a lot of speeches. I suggest we concentrate. If possible, do not use all five minutes if we do not want to welcome Good Friday in the hall. If there are no procedural issues, first I give the floor to Mr. Karadayi, who said it first of all. I saw you all. One by one, you will all be given the opportunity to speak. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u575	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In our opinion, we should and should be able to make it easier for Bulgarian citizens to exercise their constitutional right to vote. Citing data from the Central Election Commission, in the previous elections, it was estimated that nearly 9400 sections would vote machinely, i.e. there were over 300 voters. A machine was voted in about 9300 sections. However, in 545 sections where there were machines, that is, over 300 voters, there is not a single voice that was passed machine. In other 825 sections machine voting less than 10 voters. In general, where there was an opportunity to vote machine, less than one third of the voters, about 30% of the voters voted machine. And my appeal to each of the MPs, including the importers of the proposal, is that we take into account these data that we have from the last elections and give the opportunity to vote with ballots, and in any case, naturally, it is better to have a mass machine vote or machine reading of the results in order to minimize if it can be eliminated, and the subjective factor. On the other hand, I would like to say that if anyone would like to use that DPS is interested in paper voting. Again from data from the Central Election Commission, I would say that in the village of Zornitsa, where 100% voted machine, 97% of the votes are for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. And if we look at it as municipalities, the municipality with the highest percentage of machine voting is the municipality of Sarnitsa. There are 82 per cent votes for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, i.e. the engine vote is not a problem for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and to ensure that in the sections where there was a possibility of machine voting, less than one third of the voters exercised that right. Let's give it a chance to have a paper vote. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u576	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u577	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Please, when we are talking about really important texts about the Election Code and the next elections for all Bulgarian citizens, ask the whole room, but above all the left, to keep quiet and listen to what is the main and what is important. And my other question to you is: you imposed punishment on the meowing part. How many colleagues are there and who are they to know who's being punished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u578	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Please, colleagues, really for silence. We're all tired, but we need to concentrate, because the subject is important. We have to alternate groups. I give the floor to Martin Dimitrov. Mr. Letifov, until Mr. Dimitrov came, it wasn't a rule of law. A note that was benevolent to colleagues because I couldn't identify them. Mr. Dilov didn't say who they were. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u579	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to call on you to go back to the serious conversation, because the subject is really extremely important and such misdirections, like before, do not work. It was said by this tribune that no one was against digitalization, machine voting, and so on, it just had to get smoother. Personally, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time I voted machine in 2009 at the French High School in Sofia. That's 12 years ago. For these years, he basically ran a party and had time for a smooth transition to introduce all digital technologies. 2016 I was one of the importers of proposals that drew up a vote without borders. It's been five years since, as we all know, but there's no remote electronic vote. So here's the problem. In words, everyone, the whole room supports these things, but practically years go by. [[a line from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev: I do not support them!]] And here a colleague said he didn't support them...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u580	Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u581	This is the more honest position, by the way, to stand up and say: "I do not support them" is more honest. The truth is that it has been years and these things are deliberately not introduced to keep the low participation in the elections.................... the weak activity........................... This is the problem, fellow Members, because if the work had been done for these 12 years, there would now be a mail vote, and a remote electronic vote, and it would have been tested, and it would have been introduced, and it would have been brought to the end. That's why we proposed it in 2016. And if you wanted to do it in the last five years, you would have done it. Now for the engine vote, why would they vote only 27% like that? Well, on election day, engine voting in whole areas was stopped because of problems that weren't the fault of the machines, and someone couldn't arrange the lists, the names of the candidates. So, is the machine responsible for this, colleagues, or those people who are in charge of the electoral process who were supposed to resign and not be replaced today? That's why there was only 27% participation with machine voting, that was the problem, but the truth is this. In Bulgaria in elections the activity is low and the problems are mainly in two directions. The first direction is that many people doubt the truthfulness of elections. They saw all sorts of things. At night, they saw some sacks walking, carried by different people, saw it, saw the wrong protocols, and this led to low activity. That is, we, if we want to change Bulgaria and have greater representativeness, should take the path of digitalisation. Only not as it has been until now, however, not for 10 years, but much shorter periods, because 16 countries of the European Union just have a vote in the mail with today's date on 16! Sixteen countries, colleagues, and especially in the conditions of a pandemic, this is the future. So we have to walk it step by step in the following way. Yes, machine voting at the moment, we can do this quickly, and immediately afterwards the next methods of voting by mail, remote electronic voting, so that activity dramatically jumps. This must be the consensus that we are going to reach. And let's face it: I urge you to be honest, enough of this general talk. Tell yourself that you do not support and vote in the mail, say that you do not support and remotely electronic voting, say that you do not support and machine voting, so that it is clear who, who is and that we can move forward honestly, and that it is clear who really supports what. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN, DB and ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u582	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Mr. Genov first line, Radostin Tanev second line, and Mrs. Capon third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u583	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you are surprised why 27% preferred the machine vote? Well, you know, there were in front of the polls people of a party who campaigned quite openly not to vote machine. [[GERB-SDS lines]] Did you know that there were chairmen of sectional committees who kept their cards in a bag, and you know the voting technology is such that when you give the same card, the machine blocks for a long time. We have encountered such serious violations during these elections and do not be surprised that only 27% voted machine. When there is a party where election philosophy and election vote are not to be used, a party that has the fear of machine vote, that is what happens. So don't be surprised at that 27%. I've given you some facts and arguments that might explain your surprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u584	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u585	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, this is not about digitalization, it is about opportunities for people to vote. You mentioned the vote in the mail, you mentioned the vote online. I am against it, because there is no way that my opinion can be guaranteed, but that the integrity of the vote there is even more, and you know it very well. The main thing you said here, however, is that the reason they were only 27% is because there was no possibility of machines and so on. Colleagues, as long as you think so, they'll keep falling. The reason it is, are all the things we do today, the way these changes were proposed and the way you accept them. It's us. If we go out and talk to people the way we should, and not the way you're doing it now, it won't be 27%. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u586	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Third line, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, even now in these Rules of the National Assembly to have us as MPs electronic signatures for the first time, is due to the Parliamentary Group of the "Mouthy out! ", supported, of course, by the parliamentary group of. "There is such a people. However, we have introduced.. and here I want to say something that certainly colleagues on the left, and from whichever side it is, it doesn't matter, we have all seen in the electoral process, I think it is very important to say that the low percentage of people who voted with machines was because we couldn't have good certification. None of our constituents were fully convinced that the machines would give a real honest vote. This, on the one hand. And the other thing to tell you is that in the end, when we talk about rights, if there is even a Bulgarian citizen who cannot handle a machine, it is normal to think about the approach in which there is an option for the paper newsletter. [[Applause by the MP Tsveta Karayancheva.]] No, there's no need for applause. I believe that this tribune is the tribune from which we should be able to judge on one side and on the other. We were witnesses, Mr. Dimitrov, of major problems with the machines. I'll vote for the texts, but I'm telling you this because five times my own family had a problem with the map, five times they gave them a different card, which means we have to be absolutely sure that we will actually be able to give each of us the constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u588	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u589	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The situation with the engine vote is as follows: we, from "Democratic Bulgaria." We asked for civil control and certification of the machines, but we were refused. And now you say, "Well, look what happened! Why did you refuse, ladies and gentlemen, this certification and this control? Why did you turn that down? If you hadn't given it up, I'm sure the problems would have been a lot less. And there's another thing I want to tell you: it's not fair to talk about digitalization, and ten years you haven't done it. It's not fair for ten years not to put in a machine vote and say, but we're doing it one step at a time. [[Noise and lines.]] No, it's not fair that you don't! You're not doing it now, and you're not doing it for another ten terms. That's the problem. It's not fair for the remote electronic mail vote to tell me: we'll do it, but we'll do it later. If you haven't done it in ten years, you'll never do it, guys! That's the whole problem. Yes, there is little time, such is this Parliament, this is the situation, it seems to have very little time, but let us for this very little time do things that you have not done in ten years. That is the goal at the moment for this very little time to catch the bull by the horns and to do the tasks that you have been dragging and not doing for ten years. I would like to tell you something else: when the engine vote was not in place, me and my colleagues were handling cases on this subject and we won the cases. It was in the Election Code, but it wasn't introduced. This was in 2017. We won the case at the Supreme Administrative Court. I didn't hear you ask why it was there, and we didn't introduce it, and then we did a few more cases on the same subject. We've always been consistent, and we knew what we were doing. But did you know that the answer is this: millions of Bulgarians abroad want to vote and therefore the engine vote is only the first step?! We hope to choose a parliament that will walk all the steps in a very short time, because weak participation in elections is one of the huge problems of Bulgaria and you want representativeness. This can be changed and we already know who would never change it and who would change it, colleagues. That's what I'm talking about! Thank you. [[Private applause from SG.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u590	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I can all see you. First, Mr. Georgiev, to complete the procedure and then it is in the way of conduct. We're taking turns taking groups, that's the situation, and we've got to get them in somehow. By the time we have finished the procedure with Mr. Georgiev, I will give you the floor in the manner of conduct. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u591	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In this debate, we are witnessing a traditional clash between liberal and conservative. In our case, it is the militant liberal "what denies every achievement of yesterday's day, and the moderate conservative "what relies on progress, believes in it, supports it, but at the same time wants to give another opportunity, wants to give a dose of tolerance, if that's the way you want it to say it. This is what I address to my fellow importers from..There is such a people..................... there is such a people............................. I understand your desire to capture the monopoly on everything shiny and colorful by the colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" but by taking away the opportunity to vote and paper, for example, one person as the leader of "Democratic Bulgaria" Mr. Hristo Ivanov will take away the opportunity to vote at all because on election day he could not vote by machine. He voted with the ballot and if there was no alternative, then Mr. Ivanov would not have been able to vote at all. That's what we suggest in this case. We do not deny either digitalization, or the achievements of modern times, or machines, or their utility. But having a second time to get to the voters and giving their vote is also important. Because, colleagues, in the end, our goal is precisely that and what you are proclaiming is precisely this: that every Bulgarian citizen can exercise his selective right in a way and with the means with which he finds it well. So please very much, let the National Assembly become an arena of tolerance, because people who are even so much for modernization are sometimes very analog! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u592	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? Mr. Hristo Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u593	Mr. Georgiev, for a personal explanation, I take the floor. I saw that... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u594	Okay, I got the impression you were making a line. Okay, let's change it into a personal explanation, though we had to run out of lines first. I have a right to do this. Mr. Ivanov is out anyway, make a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u595	I'll be brief. Just to explain, because my vote with the paper ballot caused the entire propaganda machine of GERB-SDS with great excitement. We and our team struggled all the time to introduce a reasonable opportunity for independent audit of machines. This would have been useful for everyone, Mr. Georgiev, and it would have been a matter of simple common sense to allow all participants in the electoral process to verify the hardware and software and then there would have been a higher percentage of voting with these machines. The moment I stepped out of the election section, I heard about the problem that arose in Veliko Tarnovo, as a result of which engine voting was stopped throughout the area, so I voted with the ballot as a political sign. I have said it many times: You and your management have repeatedly shown one simple thing and even the solution to any problem can be introduced so as to create a new problem...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u596	I think you've explained, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u597	...can become a problem and you showed it with the way you introduced the machines.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u598	That was something between a personal explanation and a line. Are there any other lines? I won't. Now I don't know what to give you, Mr. Georgiev. In the manner of holding Mr. Georgiev, but very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u599	Yes, I'll be very brief, Mr. Vigenin. Excuse me, but this is where you've admitted extreme speculation with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ivanov made essentially the line for which you gave him the opportunity in the form of a personal explanation so that I could not return the duplicate. Excuse me, Mr. Ivanov, if civil control means hackers or any other ill-intentioned people interfering in the way the process is technically ensured, then go out and say it, but don't speculate! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u600	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. One violation leads to another, but I think justice is restored. [[National Representative Hamid Hamid wants the floor.]] Mr. Hamid, do you know how many more people there are? We'll get to your group in one or two speeches. Now there is such a people, I give the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u601	First of all, the gentlemen in the middle of the room, I want to inform them of something you probably don't know about. You probably do not know that the supercomputer is about to be installed in Bulgaria. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: "We know about the supercomputer.]] Great, the more you should be ashamed to know this thing if you're calling from place to place. If I were Maria Gabriel and if I were President Plevneliev, I would be ashamed of you because they are pleading precisely and everywhere defending digitalization, the possibility of entering digitalization in Bulgaria. I have a feeling that in the middle of the room you have a chip from a lawn 82. A backward one who can't move at least one step forward with the engine vote. Yes, I agree that there is a difference between machine voting and digitalisation, but machine voting is one step towards going to digitalization. I have questions for you: what have you done to train people in small towns for machine voting and how should digital transformation enter everyday life? You have done nothing, gentlemen, and this is evident from your recovery and sustainability plan. The next thing I want to ask you is in relation to where are we on digitalization according to the DESI index? If you do not know what this index is, the DESI index only means the way we introduce digital services in Bulgaria in the public sector, in the economic sector and in our overall lives. We are last, according to the DESI index. I do not know if you know about the practice in the European Union, that many countries that have the right to vote machine or rather electronically, because they have skipped this stage of voting a long time ago and they are voting entirely digitally on countries that also have a supercomputer in place. If you could list which countries in Europe that have to introduce the supercomputer would be great of you? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, we're testing each other, that's right. I'm testing you because your plan shows how prepared you are. A country like Luxembourg votes entirely electronically, also has the opportunity and is currently entering the supercomputer. The electronic vote and the engine vote are different. The engine vote, again, is the first step, and you obviously don't know it. I see nothing to do with how and how machine voting violates the Constitution. If so, then the Constitution of Estonia and Luxembourg and other countries had been violated. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN. Replices.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u602	Thank you, dear Mr. Karimansky. Please rest in the hall. Mr. Mitov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u603	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! It's not that machine voting is unconstitutional at all. We say this: the introduction of machine voting must continue to develop, and that is clear, but we cannot refuse citizens to have the option of voting with paper. There is no country, even the most digitalized in the world, that has taken away its citizens' right to vote with paper ballots. Talking about how we will suddenly vote 100% machine is problematic even for international standards. I can tell you what will be the reports of all international organisations monitoring the elections if we introduce 100% machine voting. This will be reflected by all monitoring organisations such as creating inequalities and violating the neutrality principle when it comes to an election process. Political neutrality must be safeguarded and we cannot talk about 100% machine voting when we have not come a certain path. Even countries that have come a certain way and are far ahead in digitization than we have, have not refused their citizens the option to vote paper ballots, even in Estonia there are paper ballots. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u604	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Cholakov, for Mr. Karimansky's cue. Mr. Dobrev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I have constantly had some historical reminiscences and it seems to me that I have seen television archive footage in which Georgi Dimitrov sits on this stand right here and says: "Bulgaria in a few years must achieve what many advanced countries have achieved for centuries. "So this violent modernization is a communist approach and indeed Mr. Georgiev, who spoke a few years ago, is absolutely right. This discussion, fellow Members, is not political, it is ideological It is about whether the idea of violent modernisation of a country will be adopted, whether the majority of people are ready to bear it or not. The majority of people at the time of the Communists' arrival were not ready to endure what had happened to them and then led to economic ruin of the country. [[Partial applause by GERB-SDS]] So the idea now is to do the same. Forcefully modernize it, and what the hell's gonna happen? Just one more line, gentlemen. Does anyone here have any doubt that he was elected to this Chamber fair and square? Is there any doubt that the elections were fair and that each and every one of us here is fair in this room? What was supposed to happen. If the rules are good and have led to this result, thanks to which you and I are here, why do we want to force the rules now and create a sense of uncertainty in Bulgarian citizens? [[Heckling]] Because you know that we create a sense of uncertainty, and for the elections, the most important thing is for people to have a sense of security and be calm. I support the proposal. Let there be a machine vote, let there be a paper vote and stop this debate, because indeed this ideological issue will not be resolved at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u606	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. [[Heckling]] Mr. Dobrev, third line, answer Mr. Karimansky, and then I'll give you the floor of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Karimansky, I highly doubt that you are the smartest of all in this room to speak to us in such a instructive tone. The second thing I didn't understand is what the supercomputer and your lecture on the supercomputer has to do with the entire National Assembly, given that we are talking about machine voting. In this regard, if you would like to clarify to us, what does the supercomputer have to do with this and even less the Recovery and Sustainability Plan? I'm sure, without insulting my colleagues, I'm one of the few here who read the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Without insulting colleagues, I am one of the few here who read the Recovery and Sustainability Plan after I became the MP, but from end to end, because I was sure that it would become the subject of debate in this Chamber. You probably read it, too, and that's why you want to show that you read it and that you know about the supercomputer. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] However, that is not the subject of the debate at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u608	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u609	First, I also get the feeling that I'm here with people who once were in DMCs and then from the DMCS quota they went to some TV show at BNT. This is about one of the lines that was made for Georgi Dimitrov. Secondly, as far as the supercomputer is concerned, of course it has something to do with it. The supercomputer can be used in some subsequent elections, if you don't know. You probably don't know how or how he's going to be loaded. What kind of information can he be loaded with? Ms. Karayancheva here claims that 10 years should be a smooth introduction. Well, how long can we wait for you for more than 10 years? How much? Ten years is one term for which Estonia has developed three levels of e-government "three levels." They're on a blockchain level right now, if you have to learn something from me. The other thing I want to tell you and what is very important about what all the other countries have in common because I heard above that the countries I have quoted here, like Estonia and Luxembourg, have nothing to do with Bulgaria. Well, it's better to learn from them than to learn from other countries, which were probably just given as an example of Russia and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u610	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. [[Heckling]] It seems to me that all arguments have been given, but not yet by all. (Plamen Nikolov, ISN, wants the floor for procedure.) Now procedure. Just to say that I've already announced Mr. Hadjigenov and Mr. Hamid, but, of course, first the procedure will be yours. [[Heckling]] It's a long list, but let's hear the procedure first. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u611	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My call is to everyone in the Chamber.. I will remind you. One day of the Bulgarian Parliament costs 220 thousand. lv. the taxpayers'. Exercises in meaningless rhetoric don't help anything. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u612	Please don't shout out loud. Go on, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u613	My procedure is to put an end to the pointless debate on this paragraph and move on to a vote. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u614	Here you are, Mr. Hamid, for a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u615	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an adventure to be harmed by you to speak. I am doing this backwards because my colleagues in the Legal Committee know that I have had an editorial proposal on this text and it is not reflected, and it is not properly reflected. Editorial proposals are not reflected in the Report. I'm waiting to make my editorial proposal. Therefore, please do not put an end to the debate and allow a Member of the National Assembly to speak and make his editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u616	Justice really requires that I read who have already signed up for speech and ask that they still be brief and comply with the fact that everything has been said, so to speak. [[Heckling]] Then I will put to the vote the proposal to end the discussion. Namely: Mr. Hadjigenov, Mr. Hamid, Mr. Gazhev, Mr. Rumen Hristov, Mr. Alexander Nenkov and Mr. Ivaylo Mirchev. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, Mr. Nenkov gives in to Mrs. Atanasova. [[Heckling]] It is true that Mr. Rashidov said a statement too. [[Heckling]] Look, this procedure will be a little fuzzy if we approach it this way. [[Heckling]] That's right. I put to the vote the procedure to close the list of voters after the names I read, including Mr. Ramadan Atalay. Excuse me, I just can't think of your name next to Mrs. Alexandrova. Yes, Eugenia Alexieva. With that, I think we're closing the list. Please, whoever agrees to end the discussion after the speeches of the names read by me, please vote. Vote 168 MPs: 95 against 73 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I give the floor to Mr. Hadjigenov, then Mr. Hamid. Here you are, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u617	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will be relatively brief. According to Goethe, you see as much as you know. This probably explains the criminal bias in the thinking and in GERB's statements regarding the machine voting. I'd like to draw your attention, mostly to your part of the room, all these concerns about hackers, interventions, software to one is crimes. Perhaps now is the time when we should pay attention to Geshev that instead of standing on the stairs in front of the Courthouse with all the captors across the country, his job is to hunt criminals. Cat's job is to chase mice, not stuff cheese, right? So we're talking about a crime. I understand that that's all you do and understand. I can understand that. But this shouldn't happen. We're here to make sure this doesn't happen again. So we support the engine vote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u618	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Is there any line to that statement? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Hamid, your time has come, a minute, actually, we hope.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u619	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the appointment. I think I'll use it all. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, many opinions have spoken. We have also heard lessons and lectures, but let us return the debate to the substance and to the text on the debate paragraph. Here I should congratulate Mrs Capon on the extremely good position that even if one person cannot vote, this is already a problem. I would also like to congratulate Mr. Hadjigenov on his positions before that. I would also like to congratulate you, colleagues from GERB, who stand for the positions of all these 73%, and colleagues from BSP who pointed out why the machines did not work. Can we make the upcoming early elections with the same machines, with the same software and with the same organization? Absolutely not, colleagues. Personally, I couldn't vote with a machine, although I insisted very much. But it seems that, colleagues, in order to seek consensus, we need to look at the text of the importers from "There is such a people." The text is good, the text unites all your positions, colleagues. Now there is a little difficulty where you have foreseen a declaration, but I think this can be overcome with an editorial proposal that I can make now. I will support the proposal of the There is such a people. Listen to the proposal: In the polling section, the voter shall vote with the engine voting ballot, except in the case of art. 212, para. 5. By way of exception, if the voter is unable to vote with the engine voting ballot, he is allowed to vote with the paper ballot... and here he continues that he has to fill out a declaration. I suggest, fellow Members, instead of this declaration, to add the following sentence here by the Commission, Mr President, write down the number after 269 in para. 1 of art. 206 to be added as well as in the event of a voter's vote by a paper ballot. This is completely in line with the proposal of the "There is such a people." I think it's almost consistent with your opinion, allowing paper only by exception. Of course, it makes it easier to write this declaration with an oral statement. I think the whole spectrum, the whole room, all the speeches are contained in this proposal. And in order not to take up time later, and in § 28, the same sentence must be translated into § 28 by the wording of the Commission............................................................................................................ Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u620	Can you just give me the lyrics? And you propose to enter this § 21 which becomes § 26? [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Hamid Hamid.]] Here's a line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u621	To explain only to the Bulgarian citizens who look at us that if this proposal of Mr Hamid Hamid is accepted, we do nothing, because this means that every single voter can go and say "I want paper" which means the thumbs of one ethnic group to go to want only this, or from another ethnic group. So we're against it. Either there has to be a 100% machine vote that hits the controlled vote, or it's the old version where there's a controlled vote. There are two parties here who want paper, citizens can draw their own conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u622	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mr. Hamid, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Yordanov, I really don't understand the line. I said that I support your proposal, with only one ease for the voter to remove the declaration. We don't change anything else from your text. The paper remains only exceptionally, as you imported it. Now I feel guilty for coming out to express my support for your proposal, right, don't make me feel uncomfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u624	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. The word is Mrs. Alexiev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u625	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I, too, would like to take account of voting by machine or paper ballots. All colleagues who have so far spoken by the other parliamentary groups have called on how we should defend the rights of all Bulgarian citizens to respect them, respect them and give them the opportunity to be able to vote. And if 73% of the Bulgarian citizens who voted in the last parliamentary elections for someone are meaningless rhetoric, for us these are not the citizens who have thus stated that they want to vote with a paper ballot. And I would just like to ask the importers who are currently doing editorials at a second vote, as my colleague Hamid did: why is it not possible, if they have proposed a rather good text for this paragraph, except that a declaration which, in my opinion, discriminates against this voter is not really given the opportunity when voters want to vote with a paper ballot, simply express this desire and be able to vote with a paper ballot? So there will be an opportunity to vote both machine and paper ballot. I don't understand the call for a machine-vote. If anyone could explain to me what a machine voting booth is, because in the end, when we vote machine, there is no way this ballot could be for machine voting. And the other thing I want to say is that in one next paragraph and the next paragraph, we are talking about § 28, because it is related to this................................................................................... 3 says that although it is proposed and obliged the Bulgarian voters to vote entirely and only machinely, ballots will be printed, which are equal to the number of voters in the machine voting sections. So, we are talking again about printing ballots, again, that there will be ballots in the machine voting sections, and we do not want to give the Bulgarian voters the chance to vote with paper! This is democracy, this is transparency, this is the principle of the Constitution, which we all need to protect in this Chamber and indeed everyone has the opportunity to express their right to vote, whether on paper, machine, or abroad, or in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u626	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. Come in, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u627	First of all, stop talking about us offering a statement. We offer purely 100% machine voting. Then, there should be printed ballots if there is a technical problem for the period to be resolved. These are two different things to have a backup option, and it is quite different to be able to vote with papers where your leader Borisov, if we took the votes from the gypsy neighborhoods in Plovdiv and in Sofia, wouldn't be the first to show off. So you know very well how to control the votes with paper ballots because you've been practicing it for years. For the sake of the honesty of the election, this has to stop.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u628	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there any other lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u629	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From what I hear, it seems to me that we're changing the subject of this debate a little bit. And this is not so much about citizens' rights being able to express their vote in paper, but rather about defending paper voting as a method that allows in certain cases machinations to be carried out. Is there anyone here who's not happy with the vote? We're probably all happy. Those who are dissatisfied are most likely outside the parliament. That's what I wanted to tell you. We need to put in place a full machine vote. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u630	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. Third line, please, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u631	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Dear Mr. Yordanov, one of the draft amendments and additions to the Election Code has been submitted by This bill contains the declaration, Mr. Yordanov. It is true that your name is not as an importer, but under what you say is not in your project, have signed Victoria Vassileva, Svetlin Stoyanov, Ilko Stoyanov. Would you like me to read to you all the importers who signed this? And here you say you didn't import such a thing! Here's the bill. [[The national representative shall show the list of importers.]] Let's talk one-on-one. I've supported it, I've supported your text again, I've asked for a little editing, I've asked for nothing more.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u632	Now, Mr. Hamid, I don't know, that was supposed to be a line to Mrs. Alexieva somehow, but whatever. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u633	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My line in one part would be exactly the same thing and Mr. Hamid's statement. After all, today we are looking at the amendments to the Election Code and what was adopted in the first vote in this House was the proposal for amendment and supplement of the Election Code, which was tabled by Yva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs. This bill in the text of the importer, which was adopted by this House at first reading, stated exactly this thing that there is an exceptional possibility for voters to vote with paper, but given that you are putting a reference to a declaration. After all, you once propose to vote both with a machine and with paper, then forbid to vote with paper and introduce mandatory machine voting. With your proposal on your bill, which was adopted in the first vote, you cancel it. Then you say that money will be given again for printing ballots and there will still be the same number of ballots in the sections, which are mandatory only by machine voting. Well, here it became like the majority vote and the majority vote, and you are both for majority vote, and not now, and without GERB, and in the next parliamentary elections. Guys, stop changing your position! After all, at the moment the Bulgarian voters are watching us and I think in this National Assembly, in this short life he has left, to do something meaningful and to all these 73% of the Bulgarian voters who voted with the paper ballot, to really give them the opportunity to exercise their right to vote [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] . Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u634	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. Next statement, Mr. Hristo Gajev. Are you giving up, Mr. Gadget?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u636	Thanks for that. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! A few hours we comment on a machine or paper vote. But now, when we are about to make a decision, we need to make it clear that there is an art. 10 in the Bulgarian Constitution. The Bulgarian Constitution says the elections are produced on the basis of a common, equal and direct selective right with a secret vote. I believe that we should no longer make any political comments on who, how, when and by what means he voted with a machine or paper. Bulgarian citizens have long enough shown that some of them prefer to vote with a paper ballot, others prefer to vote with a machine. If we take any of this right to their choice, will we give them the right to vote as our Bulgarian Constitution has defined in art. Ten? I put aside all the accusations about how in the past 12 years GERB have held elections and all the accusations for all electoral manipulations. But I must say this: GERB is the political party by whose will and with whose votes the machine voting was introduced at all. The governments of GERB are the ones that provided funds for the purchase of such machines. And now, if we have to get to the point, I have to complete the question with you: do you think about voting abroad with machines, how will you be organised first by the newly formed CEC of the President, by the President's caretaker government? Do you think how the public procurement itself will be organised, or has someone already received any proposals for an overall organisation of the electoral process? Do you think with this debate we increase the trust of Bulgarian citizens in the National Assembly and in the political class at all? Let's put all the political attacks aside. Our parliamentary group believes that the proposed amendment to § 26 is adequate to the situation and responds fully to the wishes of Bulgarian citizens, to those 73% who wanted to vote with paper and did so in the last elections. And we think we should give them a chance to do it from now on. We will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u638	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u639	Mrs. Atanasova, I don't think you understand what you're quoting by reading art. 10 of the Constitution. Yeah, universal, equal, direct selective law. [[Applause from IHN.]] Do you think there is equal selective right, since Bulgarians abroad cannot vote for a candidate list, cannot vote preferentially, cannot vote for an initiative committee and cannot vote with a voting machine? In the end you turned to ask: do you think you could vote abroad? Yes, we believe and should be voted by machine abroad because there is also a decision of the Constitutional Court, and that is what it says: "Bulgarians abroad should vote in the same way as Bulgarians in the country. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u640	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u641	Dear colleagues! Mrs. Atanasova, back when the integral newsletter was introduced, if you remember, one reason was to hit the Movement for Rights and Freedoms again. We did it because we have strong organizational potential. Now I understand that one of the reasons why a machine vote is introduced is to hit the DPS again, not from a general point of view, as in general from the "There is such a people" that it is from the point of view of introducing democratic principles. We'll still handle the engine vote. The issue here, fellow Members, is that we are not convinced whether this can happen in principle and happen in the way it should happen, and whether the Bulgarian Parliament and not the Bulgarian citizens should have the right to decide how to vote. Should you say in what way should the Bulgarian citizen vote, or should he have that right? Think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u642	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Third line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u643	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, not GERB introduced the engine vote. Mr. Martin Dimitrov said when he first voted on a machine in 2009. A GERB for ten years lied to the Bulgarian citizens; Mr. Tomislav Donchev for four years lied to the MPs about how you will introduce the vote when we adopted the budget; and Mrs. Menda Stoyanova gave money and next month this money was gone! Mr. Donchev here, at this bank, said that the next elections, the last parliamentary elections, will be fully machined. Where are your machines?! You always called off the engine vote before the election. After the election, you introduced him, and a month before the election, you canceled them. That's what you were doing, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u644	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky, you must be joking. You've made a campaign. Vote machine, save wood! That is, there were certainly 9000 machines in the polling stations, Mr. Svilenski, paid with the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, but after a decision taken by the parliamentary group of GERB within the framework of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. [[a line from National Representative Georgi Svilenski]] And the government has done everything necessary for these machines, despite the pandemic, despite the difficult logistics, to reach all sections defined under the Election Code and the instructions of the CEC. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u646	Don't go anywhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u647	Mrs. Miteva, I know exactly what I'm quoting. It is not bad to read the Constitution from time to time, as well as the Rules. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u648	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. We're getting closer to the finish line, just to read who's left. I hope I didn't miss someone, and in the meantime, someone might have given up. Mr. Rumen Hristov, then Vejdi Rashidov, Ivaylo Mirchev and Ramadan Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to tell the new colleagues that the engine vote is not a panacea. The engine vote will not win the elections of our parliamentary group or yours. The elections are won by the Bulgarian voters. But I don't understand these machines that you think are bad, why do they suddenly become mandatory? By the way, I want to say that 2016, as a member of the Reformation Block, I was for the engine vote and now I am also for the engine vote. But allow this machine vote to take place in the normal way. Unlike many who said they were firm for machine voting, I voted machine voting and this was reflected by the media. It doesn't matter if it's reflected or not. More or less, a vote on a machine took time. More like three people who voted with the ballot passed while one voted with a machine. [[Sighs: "Eee! " and lines from IHN.]] I voted the third time and this is documented. It's just the machine won't go. You will now work with the same machines. I ask: in sections where there are more voters and machine voting goes slowly because of software or something such technical, what do we do with Bulgarian citizens, especially abroad, where the electoral sections are bigger? Do we not deprive Bulgarian voters, Bulgarian citizens of their right to vote in these elections? Think about it. We're not messing with you, we're just telling you it's nice to consider Mr. Hamid's proposal, which is rational. Anyone who wants to vote machine can. And one more thing, because I told you that this is not a panacea in Venezuela, in which, by the way, all the diplomats used to make out to go there ambassadors because it was wonderful, but after the communists ran the place, we know what the situation is, we vote machine and they have a president, a bus driver. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u650	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. After all, every profession is worthy of respect. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u651	That's a quick line. First of all, stop talking about the engine vote winning elections. None of us said that. We say that the engine vote makes the choice more honest, not that it will win the elections of us, you or Santa Claus. Secondly, I voted on a machine twice. If you vote on a machine, so three people pass with the ballot as if you need a course. [[Radio.]] This is uniquely slow and difficult for some people. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u652	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u653	And my line will be very short. I voted with a machine, my wife voted with a machine. While we voted, and my daughter had the right to vote, she chose to vote with paper. But my wife and I voted faster on a machine than she did on paper. And she voted extremely quickly because she was very confident about who she would vote for and how she would vote. It took us maybe less than 30 seconds in total to vote on a machine. So don't speculate. There are different types of voting speed. The engine vote is fast, comfortable and secure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u654	All kinds of cases, as they say. A third line? Here's a third line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u655	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hristov, I intend rather to replicate you and help you. You may not answer the first line. Colleagues from the Slavi Show since we took their lead writer Mr. Dilov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u656	Mr. Bikov, that's not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u657	...they lost their sense of humor. It was an attempt at some sense of humor. But just because someone's funny doesn't mean they have a sense of humor. Thank you. [[Extreme applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u658	Mr. Bikov, you have to be careful who gets ridiculous with such statements. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Christov. You don't want to. Mr. Rashidov, it's you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u659	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! There's hardly anything more to say except that a lot of eloquence came out here for something that Mrs. Capon and Mr. Karadaye said very simply. It's a sacred right for the voter to choose how he wants to vote. If he wants his feet. You're not the MPs or the machines that will say how to vote. It's their right! It's democracy! And as for the supercomputers, we're gonna need a lot more super stuff before that. First, you're gonna need a super-elector, then you're gonna need super-deputies, then you're gonna need super-politics. And I think of Comrade Zhivkov, this was true when he had a campaign to introduce new economic meanism in Bulgaria. Two Shops are talking, and one of them says, "If it's meanism, it's broken. [[Radio, laughter.]] Therefore, dear colleagues, the Bulgarian state comes from many layers, from different people needed as citizens. And that's why I think this debate has gone on for a very long time. We must give really all people the opportunity to vote as they want, and the most important thing is to have someone to vote for! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u660	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. If we start with the superpolitics, things will come after that, too. Do you have any lines? I can't see. Next statement Mr. Ivaylo Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u661	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! To move quickly to the vote, I will be very quick. It was about the audit of the machines and you started at GERB again to talk about white hackers, hackers and blockchain. Colleagues, we're looking at people who know what this is about and are competent, and we don't look very good in their eyes to tell you. And the theme of machine auditing is extremely important. When there is an audit of the engine vote, this means that it is not from any state institution under the control of the government, but from, for example, different parties or from different non-governmental organisations or other independent organisations. When there is such an audit, it gives calmness to society and guarantees that this machine voting is real and is very difficult to manipulate. What does it mean to audit a machine? It means checking her firmware, means checking the software with which she works, and hardware and the ability to manipulate it. There are many procedures. It's a job that experts do. By the way, we were ready with such experts and we had proposed to carry out such an audit. It didn't work out for us, colleagues, because our proposal wasn't accepted, and the machines that were voted on in these elections didn't have an independent audit, no matter what anyone else claims. It is therefore purely expert, extremely important this time, in these elections, which are likely to be forthcoming, and no matter what, the machines should have an independent audit carried out by experts and not by any state institution. And I'm asking you to stop abusing and use words that we don't know well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u662	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. The word is Mr. Atalay. Here you are, Mr. Atalay for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, it appears that with a quick vote, we will not resolve the main issue that lies today in this House. Only a few times from the new political formations have allowed themselves to say that they do not trust the electoral process. Colleagues, it's not just you who don't trust the election process. And the voter has no confidence in the electoral process, and these political formations that we have spent many years here, we also have no confidence in all of what is going on, but not just on the day on which it will be voted, or in the practice of how and how it will be voted. The disbelief, colleagues, begins in this room. The disbelief begins when we make the Election Code. The main idea of the Election Code is how to make it possible to support the sacred right of the electoral and to go freely, calmly, without having passed through it some undemocratic methods and principles, apropos understanding of pressure, financial and Phoenician signs and so on. At the very least, colleagues, it is important whether you vote with machines or with paper. If the voter has already been edited from the outside with undemocratic principles, if the voter outside is already afraid to enter, if he does not come out with the picture from the machine or from the paper bulletin, we will not restore confidence in the electoral process or the honesty that you want, colleagues. There are things that are from the first years of democracy when they are detected that the left sneaker is given and after the election the right sneaker is given. We're in this period, colleagues. And no one wants to come out here and clearly articulate! And should I ask: besides the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, do you want someone to come out on the field clearly and run an election campaign with their program? What political formation would he say? Is there one of you? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We can't see you! You're not here! You have other methods and other principles, don't make me tell you right now what they are and how they are. And together with you, we are all gathering together today that democratic principle and method and way of making choices, and so in parentheses to tell you, I will ask you, colleagues, that these former presidents not come out to edify the new colleagues who have come out, because you will also lose that trust that you have. And please, the new colleagues who are going out in this room, it is hardly necessary if any of us understand about a supercomputer or a cumur. That's not necessary. It is necessary what we do, colleagues, in these elections. Thank you for coming, thank you for coming into this room, but you weren't on the field, you weren't on the field, you weren't on the ground to do a pep talk. Your posters were completely different. [[Noise and lines.]] And you, colleagues from GERB, you weren't there. BSP, while they're at it... [[Noise and lines.]] BSP, while they're at it...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u664	Get to the point, Mr. Atalay. It's a different subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u665	... happened, so today we argue, Mr. President, whether to introduce and stop the election by ethnic principle, whether minority or otherwise, how to limit it to the right not to give it the opportunity to enter the vote because we fear that someone will pass, will give it one sneaker before entering the voting room. That's what this is about, guys. And we offer you as we have proposed for the audit of the machines, for the software for the viewing. The DPS is the first one we've asked for a machine vote. But when we found out that we started with three thousand, we got to nine thousand, and when we found out that the problem, colleagues, was in the election process and even more of the new colleagues who didn't participate in the election, I ask you to see that the problem is counting! It's not the vote that's the problem. And we propose to you the last time we proposed, let us give the voter your proposal to pass, to remain without a declaration voting with the paper ballot, but the counting of both the paper bulletin and the machines to be machine counting, colleagues! We don't want anything else from you. And then you'll see that there's no GERB smiling at us like that, right? They won't lead the forest in order to go and get people to vote... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u666	The weather, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u667	Yeah, I'm done, guys. [[Noise and lines.]] And we will restore trust, colleagues, we will restore confidence to vote only in this way: to limit the possibility, when the voter finally counts, to count what has entered the box and into the machine, because, notice...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u668	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u669	...there are over 100 machines on which the votes are not counted in these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u670	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Is there any line to Mr. Atali's statement? I can't see. That's the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I must submit the proposal made by Mr Hamid. I'm going to read it to make sure I wrote it down correctly: "In § 21, which becomes 26, par. Art. 1, after Art. 269 is added a comma, as well as a voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's vote. Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I'm putting this proposal to the vote for Mr. Hamid. Vote 219 MPs: 109, against 58, abstention 52. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, wait. The offer is not accepted. Who wants a re-vote? Here you go, Mr. Hamid. What are your reasons?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u671	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for reading the editor's report properly. But that's not entirely my proposal. It's just the editing. This is a proposal from the "There is such a people" and I support the proposal from the "There is such a people." Colleagues, I ask that we all vote on the proposal of "There is such a people" with the editing of the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u672	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. You should have said someone didn't get a vote. There are no new arguments for re-voting. Please re-vote. I'm waiting for all my colleagues to vote. The system is having difficulties when it's so full. We know that from the previous parliament. I'm waiting. I see you're raising your hand. I have to wait, because a vote or two holds the decision or... Two colleagues haven't been able to vote yet. [[Noise and lines.]] What's going on now? Besides that voice reading it non-electronically, I don't see what else we can do. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u673	Did you see the engine vote now?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u674	That's different, Mrs. Atanasova. [[Noise and lines.]] Is it done? Okay. He had to fill out a statement that he wanted to vote with the ballot. Vote 222 MPs: 107 against 97 abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 21, which becomes 26, in the version of the Commission. They voted 220 MPs: 115, against 73, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u675	According to § 22 there is a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vassileva and Toshko Hadjitodorov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 22, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 208, para. 1 in the beginning is added:, in cases under art. 212, para. Art. 5 and art. 269
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u676	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on § 22, which becomes § 27 in the version of the Commission. Vote 212 MPs: 113 against 70, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Go on, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u677	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In particular, the Commission , (3) The number of printed ballots under para. 1 is equal to the number of voters for the respective type of choice in the paper ballot polling sections increased by 10 percent. In the voting sections of the machine voting bulletin, the number of ballots printed under para. 1 is equal to the number of voters in the respective sections.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u678	Are there any statements on this text? I can't see. We are going to vote on § 23, which becomes § 28 in the version of the Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u679	According to § 24 there is a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vassileva and Toshko Hadjitodorov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev: In § 24, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 the text becomes as follows: In para. 5 words in polling stations with less than 300 people are deleted and the words in polling stations of vessels under Bulgarian flag and in polling stations outside the country are replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 29: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words may be deleted. 2. In para. 5 before the words "with less" is added to the country and the words "at polling stations outside the country" shall be replaced by "to polling stations outside the country," for the formation of which no less than 300 applications under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 or in which no less than 300 voters voted in the last elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u680	Are there any statements under § 24? Here you are, Mr. Gadget, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u681	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed text between the two readings of the MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vasileva and Toshko Hadjitodorov, as far as I understand it, actually concerns the exception from voting by machine. We just supported, rather, the majority supported, a full machine vote in Bulgaria. and what is now proposed by the "There is such a people" among the two readings of the major sections abroad, which, as previously accepted, will be an unlimited number or those over 300 voters or 300 applications, to vote with ballots. That is, in the country we will vote all with machines, and in the big sections abroad will vote with paper ballots.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u682	It's the same there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u683	The proposal is to vote with paper ballots, not to vote with machines in large sections. Now that's a little illogical for me. So whether it's in a big section in London, in Paris, in Chicago or in Izmir, or in Berlin, it turns out they have to vote with paper. If the main wish was, as stated a little earlier than many previous speakers who were speaking in the long debate about the machines was for a full machine vote, then this text should not be supported. Not to mention, there were a lot of people here and I'm looking at Mr. Dimitrov, who was a little looking for a deus ex machina how almost the machines would support and make more people, especially abroad, vote in the next election from here on out. How would you comment on this text, which actually large sections abroad will not have machines, but will vote on paper? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u684	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines? I can't see. We are now going to vote. First, we vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u685	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u686	One vote for the platform. Vote 148 MPs: 8 against 71, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the import text for § 24, which shall become § 29, in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u688	Please also take into account the vote on the platform for the previous vote, add for and to this one. They voted 167 MPs: 114, against 30, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Add the vote for from the platform. 115 for. Go on, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u689	According to § 25 there is a proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 213a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: (3) In the process of certification under para. 2 representatives of the parties, coalitions and initiative committees registered for participation in the elections may also participate in Bulgarian NGOs, who have registered more than 50 observers for the respective type of choice and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, with access to the devices, documentation and source code determined by the Central Election Commission. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the number 3. The creation of para. 5. . (5) When in the case of the verification under para. 2 a non-compliance of machinery voting devices with the principles of art. 3, The Central Election Commission shall conduct the relevant selection with paper ballots only and shall instruct the supplier of the devices to remedy the discrepancies.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u690	Statements? Mrs. Yordanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u691	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The aim of this proposal is obviously also aimed at responding to the fears shared in this House, which is when we will vote with machines before voting with them to be checked, both their hardware and their software to be checked. The aim is to increase confidence and security in the machines by opening the process for their verification not only by the administration, but also by including the NGOs, which have registered observers, that is, who observe the honesty of the process, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the participants in the political process. Then, when we check through our experts and make sure that everything is as it should be, it will allow our fellow citizens, voters to exercise their right to vote more calmly through a voting machine. I am also making an editorial proposal, namely in the spirit of what I am saying: in point. 1 in the proposed new para. 3 and the expression "more than 50" is to fall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u692	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote Mrs. Yordanova's editorial proposal from the text in para. 3 drop the expression more than 50. They voted 115 MPs: 57 against 20, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, if you don't have something specific you want to share, please re-vote. They voted 136 MPs: 81 against 9, abstention 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u693	The quarm is 88.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u694	In my opinion, this proposal is not accepted, I don't know why the system writes it that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u695	Why shouldn't it be accepted?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u696	Because the quorum is 88. Following these clarifications, the proposal is adopted because there is some ambiguity in the Rules of Procedure, Ms Karayancheva, and this Parliament has adopted the practice that the quorum is 121.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u697	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u698	If there are sufficient votes within the quorum, the proposal shall be adopted with the majority of those involved in the vote. This is the principle that has been adopted since the first day of work of this Parliament. Go ahead, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u699	Mr. Chairman, please don't be misled, you are a parliamentarians with experience. In the last term, four years by the opposition have always been in the role, you have the quorum, deal with it, the opposition has nothing to do with it. Could you explain to us, Mr. Chairman, then on the monitor why there's a quorum and he's been sitting there all day?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u700	I don't know why.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u701	Assuming it's half of 121, then it doesn't matter. Please remove the existing quorum on the dashboard. Please don't be misled. What does it mean: this Parliament has adopted such practice? No, it's always been like that, guys. So, you organize your groups, you sit your coworkers in the hall, you don't walk around and make your quorum. That's how they explained it to us when we ruled in the last term.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u702	That's right, Mr. Nenkov. Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva. Let's hear what everyone has to say, and we'll move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u703	Dear Mr. Chairman, like Mr. Nenkov, I will remind you exactly what happens to the quorum? The Quorum must be above 121 and the required number of MPs to decide is 88. Because the original registration was 175 divided by two. 88. This is the necessary number of Members of Parliament who are entitled to take a decision in this House. Please don't play with the rules. There is a parliamentary tradition and rules mostly. That in one of the meetings someone decided to play with the quorum and break the rules should not become a practice. There are fellow parliamentarians from several mandates here. Please, colleagues, let's not allow this thing and you specifically, Mr. Chairman. Don't be fooled by Mrs. Doncheva. Last time she made that change and made that mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u704	We're not fooling ourselves. Here you go, Mr. Slavov. Let everyone say what they have to say to peace, and we will continue. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u705	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The Quorum is not just a question of Rules, but a question of Constitution. The Bulgarian Constitution is very clear that the quorum for Parliament to meet and make decisions is 121 MPs. If you want to argue with the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. [[(Reply from Tsveta Karayancheva:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u706	Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u707	In the manner of conduct, of course. [[Noise and lines.]] It is a long-standing practice, not for 10 years, but a long-standing practice is that in the morning it is established how much the quorum is so that decisions can be made. In order to start the meeting, 121 MPs are required at least. At least! If they are below this number, a meeting cannot be held. At the first morning meeting it shall be established how much the quorum is necessary to make decisions at the meeting and it shall be as much as it was at the beginning divided by two plus one. [[(Replications of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva: Today is 88!]] The following roll-call checks do not matter at all because there remains a quorum assigned in the morning of registration. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] It's a very accurate practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u708	Honourable Members, the National Assembly may decide when more than half of the MPs participate in the vote. A proposal is adopted when more than half of the voting members voted for it, provided that there are more than 120. Regardless of the practice adopted in the previous National Assembly, this is the clarification which under the Constitution should apply to the work of the National Assembly. From this point of view, I do not know why the term quorum against which some number stands is still on the dashboard, but the decision that we have just voted on has been adopted. However, I would like to ask the MPs and the parliamentary groups to ensure that there are no such debates in the Chamber of Members until the end of the meeting. Thank you. We are voting § 25, which becomes § 30 by the version of the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 111, none, abstention 22. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u709	Yeah. Add one vote from the platform " 112" for. The motion is accepted. [[Relations from the National Representative Hamid Hamid.]] We haven't forgotten it, thank you for your help to the chairman, Mr. Hamid. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u710	Proposal of the National Representative Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 218 is . (7) A system receipt from the machine voting system containing information, including a cryptographic identifier, for the current version of the software used, shall be placed in the machine voting sections prominently in the electoral space. The system receipt shall be printed by the electronic engine voting system at the beginning of the election day and before the start of the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u711	Are there any statements on this text? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 31 in the version of the Commission. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u712	Yeah. 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u713	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u714	Are there any statements on both texts? If you don't mind, I think we can vote them out in one vote. Please vote § 26, which becomes § 32, and § 27, which becomes § 33. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u715	Yeah. We'll take a look at the voice on the platform. Vote 128 MPs: for 125 and 1 MP online they become 126, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u716	Paragraphs 28 and 29 are supported by the Commission. Accordingly, one becomes § 34; the other becomes § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u717	Statements? I can't see. I also propose that we vote on the two paragraphs at once, which is § 28, which becomes § 34, and § 29, which becomes § 35. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u718	Yeah. They voted 130 MPs: for 113 and 1 MP online they became 114, against none, abstentioned 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u719	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u720	Statements? I can't see. I propose that we vote on both paragraphs, which becomes § 36, and § 31, which becomes § 37 by importer. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u721	Yeah. Vote 128 MPs: for 110 and 1 MP online they become 111, against none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u722	Paragraph 32: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 250 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words by using the method of the largest remaining shall be deleted. 2. Allinea 2 is canceled. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 32 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u723	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, which the Commission proposes to reject. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u724	Abstention. They voted 135 MPs: 84, against 28, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. This means that the text of the importer remains. [[Noise and lines.]] I heard a request for a re-vote. I declare a re-vote: we vote on the text of the importer, which the Commission proposes to reject. Please cancel the vote. A lot of colleagues just walked in. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u725	Dear Mr. Chairman, so far you've been perfect just in the running. I'm not complimenting you, and that's the reality. But there was a disturbance. Here many colleagues can no longer understand what is voted on. Don't think of it as ironic, but please have a cup of coffee, bring someone else, come back soon, because you are the best chair for now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u726	I'll go, but Mrs. Doncheva will come and introduce order and discipline. [[Laughter]] Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. By procedure? It's not about the coffee, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u727	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before the re-voting, Mr President, I ask for a name check, because under Constitutional Decision No 25 of 1998, we need to be aware of what the quorum is currently for adoption of acts of the National Assembly. You, Mr President, have repeatedly adopted acts with less than 88 votes required, which have been declared mandatory for the adoption of acts by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u728	That's your interpretation, Mrs. Atanasova, of course. But since you requested a roll call, I'm obliged to do it. In the meantime, I'd like you to come with me in the manner of conduct until I get the paperwork for the roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u729	Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conducting only note and remind colleagues from GERB that there was no vote in which fewer than 88 MPs participated. How they voted on another topic. There has been no vote with less than 88 Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u730	I think the whole argument comes from the incorrect spelling of the term "quorum" on the dashboard. That's not a quorum they write. I think it's high time to delete it from the screen, because it's not a quorum really, isn't it? [[Noise and lines.]] The Quorum is 121 to be able to sit and decide the National Assembly. It's a Constitutional thing. But anyway, a name check has been requested. [[The Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDS is leaving the hall.]] Adlen Shukri Shevked- here Albena Simeonova Varbanova- absent Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov- here Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- absent Alexander Velislavov Todorov- here Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- absent Alexander Ivanov Parizov- absent Alexander Nikolov Valchev- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- absent Alexander Stykov Markov-- here. Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Alexander Filchev Mateev- absent Alise Kamilova Murtezova- absent Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- here Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- here Andrey Nikolaev Mikhailov- here Andrei Hristov Valchev- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- missing Antoinette Andonova Stefanova- here Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- here Anton Yordanov Adamov here Armaan Agop Babikan here Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Bajram Yuzkan Bajram here Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- here Bogdan Emilov Botsev- here Boyko Petrov Cafedjiev- absent Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva- here Boris Tsvetkov- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- here Borislav Dimitrov Sandov- here Burhan Ilyazov Abase- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- absent Valentina Vasileva Vasileva-Filadelfevs- here Vasil Yordanov Georgiev- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov- absent Велизар Матев Шаламанов- here Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- here Vladimir Slavchev Valev- absent Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev- absent Vladislav Panchev Panev- here Faith Emilova Yordanova- here Galya Eneva Zahariev- absent Galya Marinova Burdarska- here Georg Danylov Georgiev- absent Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Zaprev Dinev- absent Georgi Zaharinin Popov-here Georgi Yordanov Ganev-here Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grigor Angelov Gorchev- absent Danny Stefanova Canazireva - absent Daniel Pavlov Mitov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- absent Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Deliana Valerieva Pesheva- here Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glavchev- absent Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- absent Dimitar Petrov Syarov- here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Gradev-- here. Dimo Chavdarov Georgiev- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Dragomir Georgiev Osavkov- here Dragomir Stefanov Petrov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- here Enko Georgiev Naydenov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin-here Esheref Kasim Esheref-here Zhivka Mihaleva Iron- here Zhivko Ivanov Tabakov - here Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova- here Zornitsa Nikolaeva Mihaylova- absent Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- here Ivaylo Vanev Valchev- here Ivaylo Krasimirov Kozhuharov- here Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev- here Ivaylo Peev Staribratov- here Ivan Bogomilov Petkov- here Ivan Borisov Totev- absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Vassilev Hinoski- here Ivan Georgiev Velov- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- missing Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Ivo Georgiev Atanasov- here Iliana Petkova Zhekova - absent Ilija Dimitrov Lazarov- absent Ilian Slaveykov Yonchev- here Ilko Stoyanov - here Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- absent Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Ihsan Halil Hakke-here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- here Yordan Svedenov Stoyanov- here Kaloyan Milkov Yankov- here Katya Maximova Paneva- here Kiril Sashev Simeonov- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- absent Krasimir Hristov Nikolov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krum Georgiev Donchev- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- absent Lachezar Ivanov Bakardzhiev- here Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov- absent Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- here Lyubomira Simeonova Popova- missing Maxim Kolev Genchev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- absent Manol Kostadinov Peykov- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Maria Vassileva Kapon- missing Maria Shetreva Belova - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Maston Osmanov Mastonov here. Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova- here Maya Yordanova Dimitrova- here Mika Mikhailova Zaykova- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- absent Minko Velchev Angelov- here Miroslav Ivanov Asparuhov- absent Mitko Staykov Staykov- absent Mitko Hristov Kunchev- here Michaela Yasenova Krumova- absent Mladen Naydenov Marinov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- absent Momchil Kunchev Ivanov- here Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova- here Nevena Evstatieva Mineva- absent Nikola Hristov Krastev- here Nikolay Dimitrov Hadjigenov- absent Nikolay Nankov Nankov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- absent Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Peter Hristov Dimitrov- here Petar Yassenov Marinov-here Petya Nikolaeva Tsankova- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- absent Plamen Ivanov Danailov- here Plamen Ivanov Milev- here Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski- here Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov- here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Hristomirov Rashev- here Radomir Petrov Cholakov- absent Radostin Petev Vassilev- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- absent Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova- absent Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza-here. Sasho Todorov Savov is absent Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov- here Svetoslav Bonchev Kolev- absent Svetoslav Georgiev Georgiev- here Sevim Ismail Ali here Sezgin Yussain Mehmed- here Sergey Manushov Kichikov- here Sylvi Kirilov Petrov- here Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva- absent Stanislav Dimitrov Goverov- absent Stanislav Svetozarov Balabanov- here Stanislav Todorov Trifonov- absent Stancho Dimitrov Stavrev - absent Stella Dimitrova Nikolova- here Stefan Apostolov - absent Stefan Nedelchev Mirev- absent Stoyan Alexandrov Mihalev- here Stoyan Kostadinov Stoev- absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Stratzimir Ilkov Pavlov- absent Tanner Kadir Turkoglu- here Tanya Todorova Petrova - absent Tatiana Doncheva Toteva- here Theodora Margarita Peneva- here Tihomir Gochev Tenev- here Todor Baychev - absent Todor Vassilev Vassilev-here Todor Stamatov Todorov- absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- absent Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov- here Tunjai Ramadan Ozturk here Philip Marinov Stanev-- here. Philip Stefanov Popov here Filcho Krastev Filev-- here. Hayri Recepov Sadakov- here Halil Recepov Letifov here Hamid Barry Hamid here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hatice Mehmedova Georgieva- here Hristina Ivanova Georgieva- missing Hristo Georgiev Gajev- absent Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov- here Hristo Mikhailov Dochev- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Ivanov Enchev- here Tsetska Georgieva Bachkova- here Ömer Mustafa Hamza- here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent Dear colleagues, the roll call check has shown that we have a quorum, we can make decisions. [[Applause.]] There are 152 MPs present, so please take your seats. I also invite colleagues from GERB to come back if they wish. We're continuing the hearing. Please, Mrs. Miteva, let's do some technical matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u731	Ladies and gentlemen, since we have now reviewed what we have voted on so far and found in three places slight technical gaps, I propose, firstly, in § 24 concerning Art. 212, where we adopted the decision in the sections abroad to also vote with machines over 300 applications submitted, we have two negative particles and the point becomes reversed... that with less than 300 we will have, and over 300 we will not have. So I propose in art. Paragraph 212 concerning para 2 is replaced by the following: 5 the two particles do not disintegrate. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u732	You mean both particles not?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u733	Yeah. Don't let them drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u734	I shall put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs Miteva in art. Paragraph 212 concerning para 2 is replaced by the following: 5 to drop the particles, two particles, not. Please, vote procedure. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. Continue, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u735	Paragraph 8 by importer. We voted only on the Commission's sanction and did not return to vote on the main text by importer after we did not accept the Commission's sanction, so I propose that we vote on the main text by importer of § 8 on Article 8. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u736	I vote on Mrs Miteva's proposal to vote on § 8 by importer. Let's take a vote on the platform. They voted 132 MPs: for 130 plus one of the platform, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u737	And the last proposal.. since we accepted art. 14 by importer.. the opening of sections outside diplomatic and consular representations, we must go back and rethink § 2, which prohibits the opening of sections outside the CPC. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, here I would like to quote Decision No 4 of 2018 under the State Budget Act for 2018 with rapporteur Rumen Nenkov, which explicitly states that according to the Constitutional Court the requirement of art. 88, para. 1 of the Constitution for two amendments to the Law does not restrict the legislative authority to remove contradictions between its norms in the course of the parliamentary debates ongoing in the framework of the second reading until the procedure for adoption of the bill has been completed. And in order for there to be no contradictions between the norms, I suggest that § 2 be reworded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u738	Please vote on the proposal made by Mrs. Miteva. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u739	I've got procedure. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm protesting this thing. This is not a technical amendment. We go straight back and start doing something that... Third vote on the same text. We have said that we want such practices, which in the previous Parliament were done here, during the budget, voted in this way, not to repeat them again. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Now get into an old style of work that I think at least you want to confirm it here in this room. This is absolutely not such a technical amendment, and I strongly protest against voting on this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u740	Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u741	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group - 30 minutes rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u742	I'm taking a 15-minute break to clear this up as well. 30 minutes off, guys. [[Noise and lines.]] 30 minutes. I have the right to give 30 minutes. We need to clarify this question, please. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u743	Colleagues, we're moving on. I announce in advance the references to the texts of differences or any need for editorials will clear them eventually when we finish the whole text. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are up to § 32 and were in the procedure of requested revoting by Mrs. Atanasova, who in connection with him requested a name check. So re-vote and move on to the lyrics. In the end, we're gonna make a difference. You want procedure? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u744	Thank you, Madam President. We agree that technical corrections can be cleared at the end. However, what was proposed here just now is not a technical correction. This is a change in the substance of the text voted at all, which, I repeat, is voted twice. Not once, but twice. Moreover, when voting on this text, the first to exclude the next text you have adopted, you should not have put it to the vote at all, at least because they are mutually exclusive. And the first text has already been voted twice. So even when you propose to clear these technical corrections, this text and this proposal should not enter into these technical corrections and should not be subject to a third vote. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u745	We continue on the text as it is. What procedure do you want, Mr. Svilensky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u746	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. There is no possibility of any technical, practical or whatever adjustments you want to make. This bill has been viewed by the Commission in two readings. Here in this House, we're only voting. What is this, now we're gonna vote, and then we're gonna come back? How many times are we going to vote on the same texts? The Rules clearly state how many times a text is voted, and that is twice. [[Heckling]] Those who wrote the texts of the Law Commission should have thought about watching. From there on, the responsibility lies with those who have proposed, and then with those who have voted. Once the vote has been passed, there is no reason for adjustments, whether technically or tactically, as you would like to call them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u747	Mr. Svilensky, I have announced to the House that we are continuing the vote on the texts from § 32 onwards. At the end of the bill, if you have anything to say, you'll say. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u748	Madam President, honourable Members! What you have done as an announcement a few moments ago to re-vote a third time texts for technical reasons that have already been voted on is not accepted and will not be adopted by this House. Why? Because the text you tried just now to spend, before the break, on the vote, is not a technical correction. This is a change of the text in essence.. You completely change the meaning and effect it will have afterwards. [[Applause.]] This is unacceptable and you cannot refer to any acts that may be taken in this House by the Members of the National Assembly. Do not rudely violate the rules, laws and constitution of the country. Cancel this message of yours and do not vote here in the Chamber, because there is essentially no change of text. This is not a technical correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u749	Mr. Ivanov, I propose that we proceed with § 32, which is in a voting procedure for which Desislava Atanasova requested a re-vote and in relation to which she requested verification of the quorum. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] In the voting procedure and in the manner of conduct you can not want. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Mr. Gokov, please! Revoting regime for § 32. Then I'll give you the floor of procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please, I just sat at the console. Don't treat me as to what I've spoken to you or not. Please, there is a voting regime on § 32. It's not about... [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] There's a voting procedure. I ask you to finish it, and when we finish it, I will give you the floor in the manner of conduct. She has no connection to § 32. [[Replicate from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Loud noise and lines.]] There is a voting regime on § 32. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] I do nothing but tell you that we are voting § 32 for the second time on the basis of a request for revoting. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, there's a re-vote procedure. Please, I'll give you the word after her. Please reschedule § 32 which is not supported by the Commission. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] We don't vote three times. This is § 32, which reads and has nothing to do with this § 2, Article 2. 11 and so on. It's about art. 250, in which amendments are made: in para. 1 words by using the method of the largest remaining shall also be deleted. Two is canceled. We cast a vote, we got a result, you asked for a re-vote, and in connection with this roll call check, and you left the House. I am re-voting the text of § 32, not supported by the Commission. [[Reply from the MP Desislava Atanasova away from the microphones.]] Please, you asked for a re-vote. I didn't give you the floor. Sit down, I'll let you overreact, and we'll move on. [[Reply from the MP Desislava Atanasova away from the microphones.]] Please, §2 is §2. We are now dealing with § 32, which you requested a re-vote. [[Reply from the MP Desislava Atanasova away from the microphones.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, We're talking about § 32. It's what you asked for. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Okay. Do you withdraw your request to re-vote § 32?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u750	I'm not withdrawing anything. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u751	Well, what more do you want? [[Noise and lines.]] I declare a re-voting of § 32 in accordance with the text of the importer, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 218 MPs: for 67, against 73, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. Next paragraph. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov continues to ask for the floor.]] Yeah, okay, come on in. [[(Replys:) In groups! In groups!]] Let's go in groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u752	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Mrs. Doncheva, I thought you were an experienced parliamentarians, and you're making such a mess right now that I can't understand what this is about. First, a re-vote is requested. Revoting requires a name check. The roll call is over, the President of the National Assembly comes out here, makes some proposals, votes these proposals quickly, we come to some controversial proposal, which for the third time has to be voted out, suddenly takes a break, we come out, you come back and you put the text to a reword, requested by... So, what's this now? Can you explain to me what this thing is about and how we're going to get out of this situation right now? [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria]] If anyone will explain to me what you have done now and how we are getting out of this situation, I will tell him Bravo! I'm sorry, but that's not how you do it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u753	What I'm doing is moving on to the text. [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u754	I'm sorry, but by what logic, by which rules, by what rules, by what... Or do you define the logic of the conduct of the National Assembly without following the rules without following anything? That's not how you do it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u755	So, we're moving on to the text. If there are any controversial paragraphs, let them stay for the end. [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now we're going through the lyrics. [[Shouting and whistling.]] We're going by the lyrics! Please be quiet in the hall. You're welcome to report the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u756	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u757	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u758	Madam President, regarding... My statement is not the substance of this text, but in view of the amendments that we have adopted in art. 133, para. 3, p. 5, I have a few editorial suggestions. The first one is in art. 257 is now the systematic place here, so my question is: should I do them now or at the end? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u759	Which text are you going to make editorial amendments to? [[Noise, lines and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Quiet, please! Quiet, please! Which text are you going to make editorial amendments to?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u760	Art. 257, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u761	We're in art now. 261, para. Six is canceled. What is art. 257? [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u762	Madam President, I am proposing to create a new paragraph [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u763	Quiet, please! You don't hear from each other, you don't understand each other! There are texts, Mrs. Yordanova, written on sheet 51. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] On these texts on sheet 51, I see nothing that applies to art. 257. Correct me if I can't see right. There are written: proposal of Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov, Rumen Yonchev, deviation on the grounds of art. 82, para. 2. There is a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov under art. 259, which are left unattended on the basis of art. 84, para. 2. And below: § 33. Art. 261, para. Six is canceled. This text we are discussing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u764	Yes, Mrs. Doncheva, in this regard, first of all, I asked for a procedure of conduct. Let me explain. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133, para. 3, p. 5 we adopted an amendment on the use of qualified electronic signatures in the creation of signatures in support of the registration of parties and coalitions. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. National Representative Ivan Ivanov from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u765	Please, please, sit down, sit down and let the man in the stands speak. [[Noise, laughter and lines by GERB-SDS.]] Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u766	It's about § 23. My proposals for the creation of new paragraphs are related to the uniformity of... [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] Madam President, may I have order in this Chamber? My request may be denied, but let it be heard. [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u767	Now, wait, wait. Mrs. Yordanova, if you have any editorial ideas regarding already voted and past paragraphs, even if you have seen any contradictions occurring between the texts, please leave them for the end of the meeting, take notes and get cleaned up. [[(noise and lines from GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u768	Thank you. That was my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u769	Please be quiet in the hall. Are there any statements under § 33 as formulated? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u770	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I beg you very much to respect the Rules of Procedure. It's not some kind of club, it's not some school club that's come here for the first time to learn. [[(Applause, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Please remind the Members of the National Assembly that there are Rules, which we have voted on today, and it says what is the order to change texts to certain laws, including editorial amendments. You cannot here in this Chamber offer a whole new paragraph with new texts, whatever a person thinks, and make editorials that must pass in the appropriate order: through committee, enter at first reading, at second reading, and not do any self-indulgences here in this Chamber. Please, everyone's nervous, get in character and stop this self-absorbed act. Please. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u771	Mr. Ivanov, when there is tolerance between us and common sense, things get better. I understand that there are no statements under § 33. Please vote on the paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u772	I'm in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u773	They voted 216 MPs plus one online " 217: for 116 plus one online " 117, against 70, abstention 30. Text accepted. Next paragraph. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u774	Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u775	Who wants a re-vote? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] There's no demand for re-voting. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you are, but you didn't raise your hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u776	I'm asking for a re-vote. There were colleagues who couldn't vote. Madam President, be more careful.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u777	Please re-vote § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u778	I'm in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u779	Vote 217 MPs plus one online.. 218: for 117 plus one online.. 118, against 71, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u780	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 39. .............................................................................. In Chapter 15, Section VIII is created art. 269a: "Species of the census." Art. 269a. (1) If technically possible in each election section formed according to the order of art. 8, para. 2 shall be provided online broadcasting of the vote counting by video surveillance cameras installed in the section. (2) The broadcast shall take place within the period from the date of the announcement of the vote to be completed until the minutes of the selection panel have been drawn up and signed. (3) The video surveillance system shall be designed, implemented and maintained in a manner that: 1. provide public access to the census of votes and the entry of data in the minutes of the selection election commission to each citizen in real time; 2. allows the reading of numbers in the ballot; 3. allows recording of video surveillance on a technical medium with one-off recording capability.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u781	Words from the text? Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u782	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the importers: what does it mean when it is technically possible to ask my first question? And what does it mean to provide public access to all citizens in real time? So, if there is a possibility, and if there is no possibility, what happens? So some citizens will be discriminated against and some of the sections will not be able to be monitored. The other thing I see from this text is that there is public access to every citizen. That means if I'm sitting at home in the living room, I can watch section "X" somewhere online? Is that how I'm supposed to find out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u783	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gadget. [[National Representative Krum Zarkov wants the floor for a reply.]] You have a line? Gather up if you want any questions, and make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u784	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs Karayancheva, of course I will answer all your questions. And again I tell you: this strategy to delay time we have time, we are not afraid of work, do not worry. One at a time. You're asking me, what does it mean when it's technically possible? Now, I ask the whole room to think about what do you think it means when it is technically possible? [[Applause from IHN.]] And what does it mean if he writes at a technical opportunity and there is no technical possibility? Let the House think about what it means when a text says something happens when it is technically possible, and there is no such thing?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u785	It's not happening!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u786	Well, it's not happening. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] One question at a time. Then Mr. Gazhev prepare the next questions, okay? Several times, several times today, it's already been tens of hours, you asked the question: What does public access mean for every citizen in real time? Welcome to 2021. It's called Internet access in real time. Therefore, if you had tried to hack into our previous answers, you would understand that we are creating a system where it is possible, and these are basically schools where there are already such cameras, they are plugged in and intertwined to the page of the SIC and you, yes from your living room, whenever possible, you turn on and watch. When this is not possible to go to your next question, we have provided for another system that has been proposed by other parties, which will replace this inability. That means when possible. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u787	Do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u788	Ms. Karayancheva, because here with a edifying tone, the colleague tried to explain some terms to you a technical opportunity, in her backside, hint him to prepare another answer: is it a technical opportunity and inability, if the President's administration in the new CEC fails to organise the purchase and installation of this overall system required by them? It's just, if there's no camera, if there's no software, would that mean technical inability? This is a very important matter. Let him prepare in his backpack to ask him an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u789	Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u790	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I don't know if you notice on social media that our distinguished law professors are starting to make fun of us. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Noise and lines.]] A line to Mr. Zarkov, of course, yes. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u791	Mr. Cholakov, please, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u792	I want you to tell me from now on many times in the Law is met if you can. [[Heckling]] So, come on, it's not a line to Mr. Zarkov, but I'm asking for his advice because he graduated from France. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I would like to know, fellow Members, which French or German laws use concepts if possible, if possible. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The law, as we have taught it, is a general mandatory rule of conduct for all unconditionally, it is imperative. The law can't work with conventions. Absolutely right is the previous colleague who said that if the next CEC you will appoint cannot cope with the provision of video surveillance, is this technical impossibility, or is it a violation of the law? Because I think it would be a violation of the law. From now on, I ask you very much to follow everywhere in this text where it says where if you can and if you can't, because this is a farce. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u793	Mr. Cholakov, I just note that the person to whom you made a line, or at least one, is Mrs. Karayancheva, not Mr. Zarkov. Even though you've been talking about Mr. Zarkov all this time, I hope we can still get into...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u794	Mr. Cholakov, thank you for legally explaining some things to your colleague. For me, honourable Members, if there is no video surveillance of all over 12,000 sections in the country, it will mean failure of the President and his appointed CEC. This will mean that there is discrimination against some Bulgarian citizens from others. Somebody's gonna be machining, and some sections are gonna be left unseen. Because with these conventions in this hurry, in the dark, in three days adopted Election Code can only lead to failure of the electoral process. But as my colleague, Mr. Dilov, said, perhaps you really expect failure and cassation of these elections, so that the life of the caretaker government can continue and make the presidential election to win them over for your own good. [[Loud noise and lines. Applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u795	Are there any other statements on the text? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u796	Madam President, honourable Members! I want to pay attention to the t. 2 of para. 3 that the video surveillance system is designed, implemented and maintained in such a way as to allow the reading of the numbers in the newsletter. I don't know how many of you have been members of the SIC, I don't know how you imagine counting the ballots, I mean I ask: how will things happen? I imagine them the way you wrote them down. The election day ends, there are some people coming, the masses are gathering because that's how you get all the ballots out, some people come with some cameras, direct them carefully to see all the numbers of the ballots, all the other people with their phones standing around the people, members of the SIC who count, and then you say that very slowly happens and many people are standing outside. Well, they can't stay out there, guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u797	Any other speeches? I see three hands, there's a lady in the back. [[Loud noise.]] Should we give her the floor first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u798	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In relation to what the colleague said just now in relation to para. 3 of this text, t. 2 supposes the reading of the numbers in the newsletter. Colleagues, during the engine vote, we won't have any ballots. With the video surveillance, in fact, there's no way that's going to happen, to read the numbers in the newsletter. If we look at the next paragraph, which will be proposed for a vote, we will see that there will actually be a printing of the system protocol, i.e. a record of the machine. The control receipts, which have so far been used for reporting and recording in the minutes, will no longer serve this, i.e. this text, which allows reading the numbers in the ballot, is absolutely meaningless. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u799	You've already spoken. [[Noise and lines.]] She's not making a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u800	Dear Madame Chairman, dear colleague! Let me see if I've got this right. Colleagues of importers put into the Election Code that everything will be just a machine vote. A little further, however, they want video surveillance of the ballots that will actually be gone. I'm sorry, if I misunderstand, please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u801	Would you like a douche bag, mate?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u802	Dear colleague Tanev, this is exactly right and video surveillance will allow reading numbers in the newsletter only where we have sections below 300 people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u803	All right, mate. Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u804	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We go back to video surveillance, and once again, I take the floor on it. As it became clear from the pre-speakers, real from all this video surveillance will mainly be photographed printing, not counting. Counting will only be in sections below 300 people, as was accepted just now. But I have a question for the importers, and I hope, Mr. Zarkov, I am very well-intentioned to him, to explain to me, as he explained just now, what is a technical option or not: what does he mean by a technical medium with a one-time record opportunity? Because at least as far as I have some technical literacy, it's probably just a CD, because you can overwrite on DVDs, and on hard drives, and so on and so forth. Separately, I have another question. Because nowhere else in the text is all the technical media for recording and saving the videos, there is nowhere for the one-time record opportunity. If you could explain to me, what exactly did the importer have in mind with a one-time record opportunity? I guess not being able to overwrite it, and that was some logic. But technically, what is this device that will have to be used and which only once will be able to be recorded on it? I'm just curious about what it could be, especially in sections below 300 people, because there will be printed results on others from a machine. So for the big sections, the entire video surveillance has little or no longer made sense. Rather, remove the one-off feature and synchronize it with all the other texts as they are in the Commission's version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u805	Thank you. It was another statement from Mr. Dilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Who's got a line? [[Heckling]] No, he's got a statement. Are you making a line for him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u806	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gazhev, with your colleagues, because you explain how the video surveillance is pointless during the countdown, I just want you to explain to me how the voting with the machine is going. We go in, we vote, the machine goes out with our voice, we drop it in a box. Isn't that right? Then we compare what was found in the box with the cut. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] What was the technology?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u807	Please don't think about the next paragraphs we haven't reached yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u808	That's why I'm asking Mr. Gazhev to explain. Will the vote be compared to the cuttings and to what we find in the machine report or not? Will this be monitored, or will it not be observed? What's the idea? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, there's no paper in some sections, but explain how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u809	You're doing Mr. Gajev's back-up. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Mr. Gajev's hole. [[(Loud noise and lines. Replica from the National Representative Halil Letifov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u810	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Letifov, I regret that I did not receive from the importers what exactly they mean by a one-time technical tool, but according to the texts that are proposed and which should be viewed by And if you compare the fragments with the real results, that doesn't happen in the S.I.C.s.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u811	Any other speeches? I can't see. Voting regime for the Commission text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u813	One online, okay. Please suspend the vote and announce the result: 92 for, 70 against, 47 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u814	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 40. Paragraphs 35 and 36. The Commission supports the wording of the importers under both paragraphs.. one becomes § 41 and the other becomes § 42 respectively. Paragraph 37, § 38 and § 39. The Commission shall support all three paragraphs which shall become § 43, § 44 and § 45 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u815	Statements referred to in paragraphs 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39 which shall be renumbered from paragraphs 40 to 45 respectively. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u816	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Letifov, I pay attention to § 34 regarding the question you asked just now. Paragraph 34 answers. The importers have proposed to delete it in para. 2 of art. 271 words which are equal to the number of copies printed by the system·control receipts. And now your question is quite clear: since there will be video surveillance and machine voting and there will be a protocol, there will be no one from the committee, neither the representatives of the parties, nor the observers, the advocates and so on, to have an idea whether at the time when the votes are taken into account, those voices that have taken out the machine as a control coupon are equal to the votes of the voters because the importers deleted from the text to check the control receipts with the protocol and to be compared. I think this will lead to opportunities for manipulation, and no one on the committee or party representative will be able to challenge it in any way. Nobody's doing that. I think this should not be supported, and I appeal to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u817	Others?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u818	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u819	The line, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u820	Thank you, Madam President. That's right, Mrs. Atanasova, you're right here, and allow us to attach ourselves to the big coalition that came today on a German model. I'm using the case of this line to make an editorial proposal to replace the number.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u821	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u822	Yeah, I saw it. But since the text of para. 3 is in no less than...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u823	Not less than 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u824	Everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u825	100%.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u826	Yeah, yeah. So the editing has to be by decision of the CEC.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u827	Alinea 2 has to drop out. Hamid, say it. Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u828	Yeah, and Al. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u829	No, t. 2 to be dropped, i.e. to keep the old paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u831	However, it is not only a matter of checking whether the votes on the system, on the machine and on the cuttings are compatible, but whether this is done by the sectary electoral committee. Because in your text so far.............................................................................................. 271, writes after the vote was concluded, the sectary election commission and so on, and para. 2, which you want to restore, is a function of the sectary electoral committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u832	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u833	And here in al. 3 is: "By decision of the Central Election Commission in no less than. It could be 100, but it's a CEC decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u834	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u835	So we can't automatically restore al. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u836	By decision of the CEC.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u837	Or re-establishing al. 2 and we're going to take out al. 3, or we leave Al. 3, but we're changing the number 5 to another number. Are there any other statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u838	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u839	Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u840	The lady in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u841	Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u842	They're giving you lines and they've given you lines. You're all gonna be doing lines here, aren't you? It's almost like a gym, I understand, because it's been tough all day sitting on chairs. Here you go, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u843	Colleagues, I join the opinion of Dessislava Atanasova that she should drop the item. 2. If we read the reasons of the importers, the following is written there: The requirement is removed that the confirmed votes of the machine voting in each sectary election commission be compared to the number of checks printed by the system and equal to them. If we accept the text in art. 271, i.e. § 34, as proposed, t. 2 is going to be in colosion with t. 3, because at the same time these receipts will no longer have the meaning of being equal to the votes, at the same time by the decision of the Central Election Commission, there will be a control census of the receipts in question that do not matter at all. The other thing. I also have a question for the importers. On the basis of what reasons and arguments will the Central Election Commission decide on this review of the receipts?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u844	Third line? There's no one else. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u845	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. Dear colleagues, thank you for your support. I think reasonable proposals, including editing, have been made. In this sense, I am proposing a separate vote on points 1, 2 and 3 under § 34, because this will be the most elegant way to avoid confusion and duplication of vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u846	This is clear that I will put § 34 to a separate vote and divide the points.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u847	All points in the paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u848	The question is this, and I put it in the management of the Legal Committee or in para. 2 remains the old text, a para. Three out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u850	Or al. 2 the text of the Commission shall be voted on and in para. 3 The editorial proposal of colleague Hamid shall also be voted on. I'm asking for an opinion before I proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u851	I'm sorry to take the floor without asking for it, but I just think that if it were to be rejected first. 3, this will make it very easy for us to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u852	They must have some concept of either one or the other or in the CEC. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u853	Thank you, Madam President. You've got it right, and it's exactly like that if you do. 2 dropped, then you have to drop it and so on. 3. There's no point in a head count. It is clear that then, when compared, it should be compared to 100%.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u854	And the CEC.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u855	The deletion of words is when not detected, then a check count should be made in 5% of the sectional election committees in the area. What happened right now? Add this detection in 2020 and at the same time do not do any counting of check receipts in the SIC.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u856	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u857	It's true, because the Central Election Commission made a decision after 10:00. After the election day was completed, set several sections in which to perform this census, and returned, I think I explained it to the committee, returned the sectional election committees, after they had packed the bags and collected the receipts, to count the nightly checks in these sections. So this isn't the rule of all sections. This was also an insistence of all international organizations, observers, including the CEC Public Council, to have one control census of 5% of the sectional committees in the region, and not to make a complete detection 100 by 100 in the sections, because it is impossible to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u858	Mrs. Miteva, should I understand that there is an idea that the sectional committees first have to count the checks and compare them with the result of the machine, and when there is a difference, the CEC may, in such a difference, make controls?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u859	She, CEC, can't do anything. The problem is that right now the text is that you have to detect the control receipts with the voice from the machine, but the law still doesn't say what happens if there is a difference in these numbers. I mean, if the receipts are smaller, whether it's leading the voice in the machine or vice versa. At the moment, the Election Code does not solve this problem. Therefore, perhaps the Central Election Commission has also taken this decision in these elections to make a determination in certain sections of the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u860	I take it that's al. 3 you took it from the current practice of CEC introduced Adhok.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u861	She was at the insistence of the Public Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u862	Okay. Please proceed to the vote on § 34 as follows: we are voting on a point of point. 1, 2 and 3. I think that's correct. Paragraph 34 et seq. 1 The voting regime on which there were no obstructions so far. They voted 207 MPs: for 207, against and abstention there is no. Text accepted. I'm voting on it. 2 in the version of the Commission. They voted 209 MPs: for 74, against 87, abstention 48. The proposal is not accepted, i.e. para. 2 stays in the original version. Is there any point in putting it to the vote? 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u863	There is, there is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u864	It makes sense to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u865	Okay. I'm voting on it. 3 to create a new para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u866	I am abstentionist.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u867	They voted 207 MPs: 24, against 140, abstention 43. Point 3 shall not be accepted. I put to the vote § 34 in what is left of it will actually consist only of t. 1... we voted t. 1, but still: § 34, which remains only in item 34. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u868	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u869	Vote 184 MPs: 183 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 34 only applies to e.g. One is accepted. Under § 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39, there were no statements. I'm putting them to the vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u870	There's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u871	You have spoken in all the paragraphs and dedicated your speech only to the first paragraph, that is so.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u872	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u873	Please, Mrs. Atanasova, we announced the discussion of the six paragraphs, which were only renumbered. You only spoke one of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u874	This is important. What I'm about to say is important.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u875	You've already spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u876	Okay. Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u877	You cannot make a substantive statement in a procedure and manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u878	Maybe when it's six paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u879	Let someone else speak. Let another say, I don't mind. He knows what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u880	We're not gonna waste that much time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u881	Okay, come on in, but just so you know, you're talking about everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u882	Thank you, Madam President. I think what I'm about to say is important, it's § 37. In creating a new t. 7 I find trouble. What's this about? It's about protocol again. I think there is no need to include the number of unused ballots due to the fact that we are going to vote with machines, on the one hand...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u883	Nothing, nothing. Aren't there gonna be ballots in every section?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u884	Well, imagine that no ballots are used, but you should count the number of unused ballots.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u885	No, right? It's clear why not.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u886	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u887	Because don't put ballots in circulation. Voting regime for paragraphs 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39 which are renumbered and supported by the Commission. They voted 209 MPs: 138, against 69, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u888	Under § 40, there is a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 46, with the following text: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 285, para. 1 after the words the Central Election Commission (Central Election Commission) shall be added the technical medium from the video surveillance camera (VCR) and the words "the recording technical device from the machine voting and the machine printout with the machine voting data' shall be replaced by the recording technical device from the machine voting'.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u889	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u890	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. I am making a procedural proposal in § 40 to separate the sentence itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u891	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u892	Let's vote to the technical medium from the video surveillance camera and the rest of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u893	Let's vote to the comma, shall we?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u894	That's right. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u895	Since we are in danger of not knowing what's left of the text, wait one second, Mr. Mirchev. Article 285, in its original form, reads: the President or Vice-President, the Secretary and a member of the selection panel proposed by different parties. [[Replications from the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u896	Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) of Annex II to [[Relations from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] I read the whole text. supposed by different parties and coalitions to the regional electoral committee, the copies of the minutes intended for the regional electoral commission and for the Central Election Commission, the recording technical device from the machine voting and the machine printout from the machine with the engine voting data shall be replaced by the recording technical device from the machine voting. So, what's with the threesome? After the Central... the recording technical device from the machine voting and data printout shall be replaced by the recording technical device from the machine voting. What do you want to split up? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u897	Dear Madam President, in relation to the tiredness in art. 269a "video surveillance" I propose in § 40, which becomes § 46 or whatever numbering comes, in art. 285, para. 1 after the words "Central Election Commission" the words "the technical carrier from the video surveillance camera" shall be added and the words "the technical carrier from the video surveillance camera" shall be added and shall be removed and shall remain only: "In art. 285, para. 1 words the recording technical device from the machine's voting and the machine's printout with the machine's voting data shall be replaced by the recording technical device from the machine's voting. That is to say, I'm going to take the video surveillance because we didn't accept the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u898	Here you go, Mr. Manev. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] The video surveillance is drawn and the text becomes correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u899	Dear colleagues! I have a very well-meaning question for the colleague who spoke here just now, the President of the National Assembly. So left, the text you're saying, its second part, the question arises: what type of recording device are we talking about? It is understood by the meaning that it is a recording device of the machine. If I'm not mistaken, the machine doesn't have a recording device, and it has a data carrier. This recording device is inside the machine. We can think of someone, we have to take them out. So let's get the terminology straight. No, no, I'm well-meaning. We're not gonna be able to handle all the things we have here in three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u900	We are voting for Mrs Miteva's editorial proposal to drop the phrase in § 40, which becomes § 46, the technical medium from the video surveillance camera. Please vote on this part of the text. Vote 128 MPs: for 93, against 1, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer with this editorial amendment which has just been made. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u901	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u902	Words from the text? I can't see. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u903	According to § 42 there is a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vassileva and Toshko Hadjitodorov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 48, and shall propose the following wording: ............... 48............................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 288a: "Persons entitled to attend the Regional Election Commission Art. 288a. Upon acceptance and verification of the minutes of the sectional election committees and transfer of the data from the recording technical device in the regional electoral commission may be attended by candidates, advocates and representatives of parties, coalitions and initiative committees according to art. 117, para. Art. 6 and art. 124, para. 1, Observers.. Subject to the requirement of art. 114, para. 2, a registered poller from a registered sociological agency and representatives of mass media shall be provided with direct visibility in the reception and verification of the protocols, as well as in the transfer of the data, including by video recording or video transmission in real time, subject to the data protection requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u904	Statements? I can't see. Voting mode. Vote 191 MPs: 131, against 59, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u905	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43 which shall become § 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u906	Statements? I can't see. Please vote mode Vote 152 MPs: 131 against 21 abstentions. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u907	Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 296, para 1 after the words "al." The technical media from the video surveillance cameras shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u908	Statements? I won't. I'm voting § 50. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u909	Yeah. Vote 187 MPs: 82 against 99, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "There is a technical problem".]] I'm asking for a rewordment of the paragraph. [[Noise and lines: "We did not manage to vote. "]] Now we have a problem with the console. I'm announcing a reword of the paragraph. They voted 163 MPs: 95, against 40, abstention 28. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u910	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u911	Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode. Vote 147 MPs: 119, against 27, abstention 1. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u912	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u913	What page?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u914	Page 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u915	Statements? I can't see. Please vote. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u917	130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The text of § 45 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u918	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u919	What page are you on?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u920	Page 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u921	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u922	Madam President, I just want to make one remark. Please, today is a hard day when we all breathe what we exhale in the masks. The more immortal part of your colleagues please put on your masks! Some people get sick and I don't tell you bad things. I don't want to sit here either, but let's follow some rules. I've gone through all the possible diseases, I've got trouble with my throat, and I can barely breathe. I see that as immortals you sit, and I prefer to be alive rather than immortal! [[(Applause and lines from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u923	Okay. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Dilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u924	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, according to the church law of 6:00 is already a Good Friday. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS, lines:]] Clearly, all predestined politicians will probably burn in hell some more, someone less. I suggest you, Madam President, use your powers and suspend the meeting, because if there are Orthodox Christians in this House, they should not work anymore. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u925	Mr. Dilov, I cannot put it to the vote because a few hours ago we voted that we would work until the item was exhausted on the agenda. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "It can be voted because it is a procedural proposal.]] We voted to work to the end of the agenda, please! I put to the vote § 46, which becomes § 53. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u927	They voted 141 MPs: 99, Against 6, abstention 36. Sustained. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "You have to put to the vote the procedural proposal."]] Please, we voted it out a few hours ago! [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, I'm voting on the motion made by Lyuben Dilov to end the meeting. The offer is not accepted. They voted 203 MPs: for 73, against 97, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. [[Replying: we want a re-vote!]] I'm calling a re-vote. Vote 204 MPs: for 76, against 97, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u928	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u929	Statements? I can't see. Please vote § 47, which becomes § 54. Vote 141 MPs: 139 against 1, abstention 1. The paragraph shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u930	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u931	It's on page 69. So § 48 just now, we corrected it in § 34. So the correct thing to do is to vote § 48 to become § 55, but with the content that we voted for just now for the wording of § 34, right? [[Heckling]] That's right, just point 1 of the proposal. I shall put to the vote this version of the wording of § 48, which shall become § 55. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u933	They voted 134 MPs: 134, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u934	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u935	Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u936	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u937	Vote 166 MPs: 166, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u938	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u939	Statements? I can't see. Voting regime for the two paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u940	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u941	Vote 128 MPs: 95, none, abstention 33. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u942	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u943	I don't see any speeches. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u945	They voted 134 MPs: 132, none, abstention 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u946	Under § 53, there is a proposal from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The Commission supports it, but in relation to § 46, we must change it. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 53, which becomes § 60, and proposes the following wording: ........................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 444, para. 1 after the words the Central Election Commission (Central Election Commission) is added the technical medium from the video surveillance camera and the words...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u947	Colleague Manolova, I hope you will respect Mr. Rashidov's wish to wear your mask. [[Noise and lines.]] The text of § 53, which becomes § 60, would contradict this form of texts already adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u948	Therefore, in § 60, the words "technical medium" of the video surveillance camera "must be dropped."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u949	Is there an objection by the importers or any wish to make a statement? I put to the vote the text of § 53, which becomes § 60 without the words "technical medium" from the video surveillance camera. Do the importers have any statements and clarification?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u950	Let's vote first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u951	First, I put to the vote the removal of the words of the technical medium from the video surveillance camera with a view to synchronising with already adopted texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u952	I am abstentionist.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u953	They voted 136 MPs: for 103, they won't mind, they abstentioned 33. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 53, which shall become § 60, with the version of the Commission, without the recent removal of the technical medium from the video surveillance camera.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u954	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u955	They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u956	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u957	Words from the text? I can't see. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u959	They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u960	According to § 55 there is a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vassileva and Toshko Hadjitodorov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 62 and shall propose the following wording: § 62. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 446a: "Persons who are entitled to attend the municipal Election Commission Art. 446a. Upon acceptance and verification of the minutes of the sectional election committees and transfer of the data from the recording technical device to the municipal electoral commission may be attended by candidates, advocates and representatives of parties, coalitions and initiative committees according to art. 117, para. Art. 6 and art. 124, para. 1, Observers.. Subject to the requirement of art. 114, para. 2, a registered poller from a registered sociological agency and representatives of mass media shall be provided with direct visibility in the reception and verification of the protocols, as well as in the transfer of the data, including by video recording or video transmission in real time, subject to the data protection requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u961	Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u962	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u963	Vote 131 MPs: 124 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u964	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u965	Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u967	They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u968	Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 457, para. 1 after the words "al." The technical media from the video surveillance cameras shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u969	Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u971	Vote 134 MPs: 81 against 47, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u972	I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u973	A re-vote of § 65 has been requested. Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u975	Vote 157 MPs: 69 against 80, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u976	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u977	I don't see any speeches. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u978	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u979	They voted 122 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are moving on to § 59 "Crossing and concluding provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u980	According to § 59 there is a proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev. "Paragraph 59 of the bill is repealed." The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal made by Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev: A new § 60b shall be created as follows: Paragraph 145 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the VID of the Election Code shall be repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u981	Statements? I can't see. I first put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Angelov and Yonchev to repeal § 59 of the Bill. Vote 208 MPs: 42, against 90, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. Let's go in groups. [[Loud noise and laughter.]] I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission, which shall support the text of the importer under § 59 and shall renumber it as § 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u982	There's another one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u983	Oh, well, I'm sorry. Cancel the vote. There is a second proposal of the MPs Manolova, Angelov and Rumen Yonchev to create a new § 60b, not supported by the Commission. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Angelov and Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u984	I am abstentionist.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u985	They voted 139 MPs in the House and 1 remote 140: for 7, against 69, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission, which is, in fact, the text of the importer, under § 59, which shall become § 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u986	I vote against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u987	They voted 213 MPs in the House and 1 remote. 214 total: for 67, against 9, abstention 138. The offer is not accepted. [[Revoking lines.]] Revoting has been requested. Please re-vote the text of the importer under § 59 to become § 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u988	I vote against.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u989	They voted 213 MPs in the House and 1 remote. 214 total: for 67, against 9, abstention 138. The offer is not accepted. Let's go in groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u990	Paragraph 60 on page 81. There is a proposal of the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoaneta Tsoneva: "Paragraph 60 of the Importer's Bill to be amended as follows: ........................................................ In Annex 1 to art. 248 A methodology for determining the results of the vote and the allocation of the mandates in elections to MPs shall be made as follows: 1. Paragraphs 2.7 "2.13' are amended as follows: ..2.7. The number of mandates in the area of Foreign is equal to the arithmetic average of the private ones received in the division of the number of actual votes cast, the national quota of Hare for the respective election of the last three elections to the National Assembly. 2.8. The remaining mandates under point (a) of Article 3 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be suspended until the end of the term of office of the European Union. 2.6 to 240, respectively 400 for the Grand National Assembly are allocated consecutively to multi-mandated electoral regions with less than 4 mandates, Mir 2.5). 2.9. First receives an additional mandate, Mir, which has less than 4 mandates and has the largest remainder, second receives an additional mandate Mir, which has less than 4 mandates with the next largest remainder and so on until the end of the Mir with less than 4 mandates. 2.10. The remaining mandates shall be allocated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until the number under point is reached. 2.7 or until the terms of office are exhausted. 2.11. If there are remaining unallocated mandates, first gets an additional mandate Mir with the largest remainder, second gets an additional mandate Mir with the next largest remainder, etc. until the terms of office are exhausted. 2.1. When the procedure under t. 2.11 cannot continue due to the presence of equal residues, the number of which is greater than the number of remaining unallocated mandates, these terms shall be allocated by lot of the CEC. The date and time of the lot shall be determined by the CEC. Representatives of parties, coalitions and initiative committees, observers and representatives of mass media may be present in drawing lots. 2.13. The final number of mandates for each MI is the resulting result of the calculation procedure under point (c). 2.6..................................................................... 2.1. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4.1 et seq. 4.5.1. the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 60 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u991	Are there any speeches? We are talking about a regulation of the area of Foreign, a methodology of calculation. I see that none of the proposals have been accepted. Is there any point in making 9 to 20 on Good Friday? [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any speeches. Then we proceed to the vote. Mr. Vasilev, we are going to vote. No one can oblige anyone to speak. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Ms. Nadezhda Yordanova and Antoinette Tsoneva to create § 60 with your read content.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u992	I am abstentionist.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u993	Vote 215 MPs in the House and 1 remote. 216 total: for 95, against 53, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer of § 60 which is not supported by the Commission. Simply put, no area is created. Vote 214 MPs: 67 against 8, abstention 139. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u994	Name of the Member State in which the goods are to be placed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u995	Statements? I can't see. Please vote on the name of the section.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u996	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u997	They voted 141 MPs in the House and 1 remote. 142 total: 140, not against, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u998	Paragraph 61. Proposal of the National Representative Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev: In § 61, the text so far became para. 1 and a new para is created. 2 as follows: (2) In the first elections for MPs, after the entry into force of this law, the Central Election Commission shall determine the number of mandates for MI 32............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Central Election Commission shall review the mandates in the other multi-mandatory electoral regions respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 61, which becomes § 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u999	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Angelov and Yonchev, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1000	I am abstentionist.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1001	They voted 146 MPs in the House and 1 remote " 147" total: 14 against 60, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 61, which shall become § 68. Show in groups in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1002	I am abstentionist.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1003	They voted 216 Members of Parliament in the House and 1 remote 217 total: for 75, against 73, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. [[Revoking lines.]] I'm declaring a re-election regime. Let the groups show up in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1004	I am abstentionist.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1005	They voted 216 Members of Parliament in the House and 1 remote 217 total: for 75, against 73, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1006	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 62 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1007	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1008	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. The Commission has indeed rejected this text in the Legal Commission. I hope the House will confirm the opinion of the Legal Commission! However, I would like to draw attention to and say it out loud, what this is about, the elections in the mail. I want to read you two moments from this § 62, para. 1: In the first elections for MPs after the entry into force of this law, the Central Election Commission, if possible, organised jointly with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs voting by post outside the country for voters with current address in a country where it is voted in the post. And the next moment on which I want to draw the attention of the people's representation I respect para. 4: In the event of doubt about the security and integrity of the electoral process, the Central Election Commission suspended the post-election vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] With this proposal of the importers, colleagues, the proposals are from Mrs. Iva Miteva, if I am not mistaken, and a group of MPs, they say that they do not believe that it is possible to have a vote in the mail first, and, secondly, that they do not believe that voting in the mail can be fair. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1009	I don't see any other comments. I shall put to the vote the text of the importers which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 61, against 20, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1010	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1011	Who makes a request for a re-vote "Nadezhda Yordanova. Please, re-election mode. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on the text of the importers, not on the Commission's sentence. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We are voting on the text of the importers, which has been rejected by the Commission. Vote 218 MPs: for 74, against 87, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1012	According to § 63 there is a proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev. In Paragraph 63, sentence 2 is deleted and new sentence 2 and sentence 3 shall be created as follows: Until the new members of the Central Election Commission enter into office, the current members continue to exercise their powers. The newly elected members of the Central Election Commission shall complete the term of office of its current composition. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1013	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1014	Maya Manolova first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1015	Cancel the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 146 MPs: 8 against 53, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1017	They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1018	Proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vasileva and Toshko Hadjitodorov: Paragraph 63a is inserted: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The proportional election system for MPs under art. 246 applies until the first regular elections The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev: A new § 63a shall be created as follows: By 21 May 2021 the Central Election Commission shall draw up a list of the Bulgarian citizens who voted in the elections for MPs on 4 April 2021 and shall send to the authorities under art. 23 extracts from the list concerning the populated areas included in their territory. On the basis of the voting voters in the respective municipality, the bodies of art. 23 must draw up new electoral lists by 4 June 2021. (2) The electoral lists drawn up in accordance with para. 1 shall also be used for subsequent elections, supplementing the Bulgarian citizens who voted in the elections held after 4 April 2021, as well as the citizens registered for voting. The Central Election Commission shall, after each election, enter the information on the voting citizens in the register under art. 59, para. 1, t. 9 and send it to the authorities under art. 23. (3) Citizens shall be included in their lists of permanent addresses, including those who have voted at present or with a certificate of voting elsewhere. (4) The first voter registration campaign for entry into the electoral lists shall begin on 7 June 2021 and shall end before the election day of the following elections. (5) Each municipal and regional administration shall announce in a prominent place on its website that a voter registration campaign is being conducted, which shall contain as complete information as possible and shall include: 1. information that citizens who have not voted in the last elections and have not registered will not be able to vote in the upcoming elections; 2. a sample of the application for registration for voting, as well as the competent authority to which it is to be submitted; 3. e-page or address by which applications for registration for voting are submitted by electronic means. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1019	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1020	I hope that Bulgarian citizens will continue to watch because now is the hour of truth. At the moment it will become clear who is for the majority electoral system as requested by over two and a half million Bulgarians, and who is hypocritical in this room. In this part of the hall, where BSP and DPS are, are against,..Democratic Bulgaria....................................... there are against........ there are against................................ The central part of the House several times over the years declares it to be for, but when it comes to voting or withdrawing the laws or not. GERB also voted against this in the Commission. Now the Bulgarian citizens will see who is actually in this Parliament of all MPs for a majority electoral system. I repeat, this is from "There is such a people" and "There are goons out there" or at least a big part of them. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1021	I draw your attention to the fact that I have read two texts of the paragraph in question, which have a completely different subject. Put it both ways. I will put them to the vote separately, but bear in mind that the statement is for everyone on both. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1022	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Yordanov, Mrs. Vassileva, Mrs. Miteva! Not only will the Parliamentary Group support your proposal for § 63a, but I also propose an editorial change to delete the word "regular" in the first elections, i.e. to vote majority. We hope that you will support us. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1023	Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1024	Is there anyone in this room who thinks the next election is gonna be regular, seriously?! Is there anyone who thinks the next election will be regular?! We are probably going to the early elections by 99.9%, so these changes are being made. But in the next election, we should vote on a majority electoral system, which should be regular. So please don't be silly or vote for this proposal or not. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1025	Speaking, Mr. Zarkov. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] There are rotations of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1026	To what do you speak?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1027	Of course, that's what the rules say. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, there's a rotation of the parliamentary groups. You're a few people. [[Reply from MP Krum Zarkov.]] Mr. Zarkov, I'll give you the floor, too. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1028	It's the way it's supposed to be. Learn the rules! The largest group is given the floor first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1029	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1030	Mr. Glauchev, please, you were some kind of chairman of this parliament. [[Noise and shouts from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1031	And you weren't at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1032	I didn't have to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1033	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1034	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1035	Please be more respectful though. Of course you'll see the truth now. That's exactly what we want. We have wanted it since November 2016. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] When we submitted the first major election bill. We also wanted it in May 2017, when we submitted a second such bill. We wanted it now, and we still want it. Only we don't know what you want in the end the importers. [[Reply from the left block.]] The procedure is a statement if you can't read.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1036	Mr. Glauchev, it doesn't suit a man who was chairman to chicify slightly with the procedure now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1037	But I'm not chicing anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1038	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1039	I have spared you the humiliation to tell you that you must know that you must give the largest parliamentary group to speak first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1040	You don't have to spare me any humiliation. It doesn't say anything that I should give you your word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1041	Read your rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1042	And I won't explain to you out of inconvenience to those who are watching and listening to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1043	Read the Rules of Procedure to whom first the word is given, to which group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1044	Mr. Glauchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1045	We didn't make statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1046	Mr. Glauchev, okay. It's too late. Everyone's nervous and we're on the last page of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1047	I'm not nervous at all. If you're nervous, talk about yourself. I'm not nervous. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So by the rules, I stand in the stands. If you want, you can suspend me, actually. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1048	Only in favor. No, I won't suspend you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1049	Let's move on. And now we actually put the same bill back in. And since Mrs. Chairman of the meeting has given me the floor, please do not chicane. The really regular elections are moving away and who knows how far they'll be in time. And among other things, on 31 July 2019, if I am not mistaken the date, your leader said that you are entering politics only to realise your questions from the referendum. I mean, while you're realizing them, what do you think you have nothing to stand for if you don't realize them? You're losing political sense to be there. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Because we didn't see anything else from you. If you had broadcast a prime minister, a government with a programme, then it would have been understood that there is something else that you are in politics about. Prove now that you have a place in politics, as your leader said, Mr. Stanislav Trifonov, and support the editorial proposal made by Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1051	Either you don't understand anything, or you're a word for people who don't understand anything for biological reasons. It can't be done in one day...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1052	How can you behave like this? You can't say that!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1053	I have an opinion. This jabbering is pointless... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1054	Please don't make any noise.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1055	You'll have a chance...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1056	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1057	...or accept our offer, or make up a reason not to accept it. The choice is yours. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1058	Is there more?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1059	There's more lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1060	Ah, here you go. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1061	Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1062	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Glauchev, you've been in the area for 10 years, for electronic remote voting and for 100% machine voting! Today we all know that you are not for any of these things and everything here was populism! [[Applause from IHN. Replies from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1063	Are there any other lines? Mr. Glauchev, if you'd like to join us. Okay, then there's a floor for next statement, Mr. Zarkov. I'm sorry, Mr. Glauchev. Mr. Glauchev, you had your chance and you didn't take your word for it. Please be at the height of your former post. All the people who tarried the time, even in the middle of the sentence, were leaving the stands. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1064	I didn't go out on the stand, Madame Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1065	Please! You've been walking around the room to explain yourself in person.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1066	I've been waiting for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1067	Please! [[Reply from the MP Dimitar Glauchev away from the microphones.]] People did their lines, and you guys go for a walk. [[Reply from the MP Dimitar Glauchev away from the microphones.]] Yes, I gave you the floor and you didn't take it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1068	Yes, thank you. I'll be very brief, because it's about biology. But when nature is wrong, biology is powerless. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1069	Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1070	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Maybe it wouldn't be bad if we stopped with the mutual insults and delusions and looked at what we're really being offered. And I take the floor for two reasons. First, you correctly noted the BSP parliamentary group is a supporter of the proportional system and we believe the majority system is not suitable for Bulgaria for many reasons we have discussed here. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But let me tell you two things. First, to write in this law that the proportional electoral system applies until the first regular elections is nonsense because this law is applied and it is a proportional electoral system. That is, whether it exists or not, the proportional electoral system will be applied until the first regular elections. But something else is more important. This is also to GERB. In the last few hours, you've made thousands of accusations that, you see, someone is trying to sabotage the elections, almost a coup so that someone else can rule and so on. For a little detail and technical things you were explaining here whether it was possible, if possible, and which law it was written in. I ask you now, when you say to drop the word "regular" which will mean that the proportional system will not apply to the elections that may be in a few weeks, is that not blowing up the electoral system, as you very well know that this is not possible to happen?! And, my dear colleague, I don't need to quote French laws to make you understand that it is not possible to do so. It's delusion, overplay, sabotage, shame, and it doesn't honor you at all! Play it somewhere else and something else, because Bulgaria is in a political crisis, which can only be solved with fair elections. And if you're trying to dig deeper into this crisis to cover your failed government, it's just not dignified! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1071	Since you are very fond of the hierarchy, determine which of you is first in line with the group president, the former minister or Mr. Manoil Manev? [[Loud noise.]] Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1072	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. I take the floor not in the hierarchical structure, but because I'm a lady. My colleagues are gentlemen. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Zarkov, I apologize, this system, the proportional with which we elect MPs, is disgusting. And that is not my opinion, but the opinion of two and a half million Bulgarians. We are not forced to choose between good and bad. We choose between bad and less bad. I think the less bad is majority. But I don't think it's me, some politician, I think it's a citizen. We asked all Bulgarians two and a half million of them: yes. This thesis on majority elections is supported by two and a half million Bulgarians. Did you forget it? I must tattoo it clearly by Mr. Stanislav Trifonov, with whose parliamentary group you elected President of the National Assembly and with whose parliamentary group you blamed the state, including not only being able to appoint the Supreme Judicial Council, but the state to stop! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1073	There are three lines. Three are alternate groups. A line? Here you go, Mr. Stanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1074	Ladies and gentlemen! The degree of emotions has gone up again too much. I'd like to give a line to Mr. Krum Zarkov from BSP. Mr. Zarkov, you're right. There can be no objective elections now because there is no new national census conducted by the NSI, there is no zoning. And GERB is currently playing around with an absolutely impossible idea, trying to sabotage the idea of a party. The words that Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova quoted Slavi as saying a while ago continue to have the same weight. In fact, what you want to do now is set us a political trap! Well, it's not gonna work! [[Applause from IHN.]] I'll quote Glauchev. Mr. Glauchev, with all due respect to you, you are a qualified parliamentarians, you, your group, are now chicing, not us! Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1075	Mr. Dobrev, are you in charge or Mr. Manoil... Here you go, Mr. Manev. [[Reply of the National Representative Manoil Manev to President Tatiana Doncheva away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1076	I won't answer to the chairman. I want to make a line, and it's so... Today I am well-meaning, but today we are already on the brightest Christian holiday and therefore my line will be quite well-meaning. Colleague Zarkov, if you or anyone else in this room who is thinking clearly and is a normal person, believes that this Election Code, which we are voting on today, can be ruined more than what you have created so far, is not in this world at all! What you've produced so far with all these complex themes, schematics, spinning, revoting, is the tip of everything. And on this background, the explanations that some of us here, who from the past Assembly are talking about the majority system, are doing something different than just being consistent, is not true. As for that word, what was the chicanery? Colleagues, since when in the Bulgarian language of fear, political fear is called chicanery, I do not know. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] What you do, however, is not just fear. This is an attempt to play politics when the only thing that was your goal was to be showmen. Nothing more, thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1077	Mr. Zarkov's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1078	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear duplicates, thank you for the replicas for the lines, pardon. Mrs. Atanasova, you replicate me with foreign words, not your words, spoken by another person. I do not worry about them, as my political formation, our group and our chairman have always been consistent on this issue. We believe that this system is not appropriate. How others change their minds and why it's your business. The truth is, however, that you have changed your mind many times and do not mislead the House. You brought in these laws so they wouldn't be passed. In the past the National Assembly these were the only laws tabled by you that were not adopted, and this is not an accident! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and IHN.]] Just be honest with people. Dear Mr. Stanev, I was listening to you and, by the way, it became interesting to me that they called you populists, and they were a stable party. Now they're asking you to do something absolutely populist, and you stood up here and told them it just couldn't happen. It can't happen, and that's true. [[Noise and lines.]] And finally, for Mr. Manov. Thank you for your kindness. Whether this code will stand! I admit, I am also concerned, as this difficult day, with these floating majorities and with this difficult report, we will read what has happened. But I believe it will hold, and I will tell you why. This code and our administration have proved durable enough to withstand your four-year abuse on them, and I believe they will succeed this time. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1079	Please don't get tired of excessive procedures! There's a request for Mr. Dobrev's statement. There's a request for a statement by Rositsa Kirova. There's one on Mr. Vejdi Rashidov. There's Mr. Slavov's and Mr. Naydenov's. [[Noise and lines.]] Only Mr. Slavov and Mr. Dilov. Mr. Dilov, did you miss your plane to Egypt tomorrow morning? [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] Who should I give the floor to first? Mr. Rashidov's like a doyen?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1080	Madam President, I would like to remind my fellow Members to lower their degrees a little bit. In 2009, if someone's memory is short and you don't know, there were majority elections. I was one of the majors, and I have to tell you why BSP's fear is. The winners of the majority elections were GERB, in the first place, and DPS. So there's nothing scary about majority. Yeah, I understand that maybe it's just a place you'll have a majority, and maybe the chairman of your party. I'm sorry. But GERB is not afraid of majority elections, I hope that DPS is also strong enough given their electorate. So there's nothing to be stressed about by such an election, and if you can now, right, that's what we said in these elections?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1081	The line is Mrs. Capon and Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1082	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov, for reminding us of these fictional majority elections, in which each voter had two votes for the proportional system and one for some majority system. This is exactly what the Bulgarian voters understood that it should not be because if we want to have the German mixed system, it is completely different. So I think it's better if we don't set it as an example. That was my cue to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1083	Second line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1084	Mr. Rashidov, you said: "I hope your memory does not cheat on you." It wasn't a major election in two rounds. It was some kind of twisted system in which, on top of that, this majority element, whatever it was, was in one round. So, please, remember, refresh your memory, it's not that difficult.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1085	Mr. Slavov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Rashidov? Because you were extremely short in... [[National Representative Atanas Slavov wants the floor.]] Wait, wait, wait! You were extremely short in the main exhibition, I don't know if...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1086	Thank you, Madam President! When a world-renowned writer next to Capcockle tells me this, it's clear they weren't major. I'm just asking him: what was it? They were majority, and Mrs. Capon is right. I was the leader of the list and the majority. It's like this here. However, we, what I say, have experience in the majority elections and I really propose to vote GERB for majority, and in these elections to be. Let's start somewhere. And for you, perhaps, what GERB says all this is not so. It's not like that for us either. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1087	Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1088	Madam President, colleagues! Today is indeed a great Thursday and it is right at least in this world that the Bulgarian Parliament does not use the techniques of the circus. Because what we're seeing is happening, colleagues, I'm going to speak as a lawyer. If we read the text we are currently discussing, we will see that it is actually a fiction. With or without him, nothing will change. I understand that it has symbolic significance for the colleagues of the "There is such a people" but I fully support the speech of the esteemed colleague Krum Zarkov. This text, nor its vote will mean anything, nor its non-voting will mean anything. Let us return to the meaning of this debate and finish tonight to pay our respects to the holy Christian holiday after all. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1089	I propose that we close the debate on the text. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Okay. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova. [[Noise and lines.]] Women first, that's what I understand, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1090	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief in my speech. In today's day, I, as a person who is first in the Bulgarian Parliament, saw what it means to vote in darkness and to write texts on a knee. Because what we voted on in the Election Code, colleagues, today, will enable us to find out in a week's time that there are texts that have passed, but are related to members who have previously dropped out of this same electoral code that you have proposed for a vote. Also, it is very strange to me why this hysterical haste and this 12-hour working day at all costs to accept amendments to the Election Code, prepared I do not know when, but definitely not at the time when you should have thought and written adequate professional, expert, majority election law. The one they've been talking about for six years, Madam President. As for the proposal you are making at the moment, I have essentially one supplement. The dropout of the proportional electoral system should be noted that, in the absence of a majority, because it may suddenly be that it follows a mixed proportional or any other system, you did not complete it. At least I didn't read it. Maybe it was an accident. Otherwise, I propose to colleagues from the GERB-SDS group that we accept and vote on the text of the importers not because we are populists, such as those who talked about majority voting, and then withdrew and withdrew, but because we are consistent and because I believe that since it was promised to the Bulgarian citizens to have a majority electoral system, we should give this opportunity and support our proposal, Mr. Toshko and a group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1091	Mr. Toshko's not in the group, though. Don't be fooled. The text has other importers. Mr. Dobrev? I'm not asking for lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1092	Madam President, honourable Members! In fact, this is the most important part of the Law. If there was any point in what we were doing today all day, it was to adopt this text, but not in the form in which colleagues prepared it and not with the next regular parliamentary elections, but even those that are likely to be in the beginning of July. All the arguments that you point out that there is no readiness for majority elections in July are exhaled. Because, if you remember, you can check on the Internet, 2016 the writers from the SlaviShow and other colleagues of yours, with some large folders you arrived at the Party House and asked the National Assembly to introduce a majority voting system. Is that right, colleagues? That's right. [[Noise and lines.]] What happened then? GERB submitted them and supported these proposals, but we didn't have time, we didn't actually have enough votes to accept them. Now we have a majority. GERB and "There is such a people" can accept these changes. The argument that the areas are not divided is also invalid. I will remind you of the year 2016. You divided them, not really you, Misho Konstantinov and his colleagues on your assignment divided Bulgaria into regions. These areas are there. I, as elected by Haskovo District, am a multi-mandatten so far, have checked the mandates in Haskovo and will tell you exactly on the streets how you divided them. You mean the separation you have on the streets. It's known every street in which one-sided constituency it's gonna be. The argument that four years have passed since then, because hardly this division has been done since 2016, and now we are 2021 and since then people have been dead, and other people have gone abroad, I have heard this in the vote on our legislation by Mrs. Miteva, is absolutely invalid because yes, people have died, however, as they have died on Street. That's how many died on Lippa Street. - Cherry medium. - Yeah. And not only that, as they have emigrated from one region, they have migrated on average from the other region in Bulgaria. So you have the division, your division is ready, your division is on the page of the Slavi Show. Is there a need? Here, there's a computer here, if anyone doesn't believe, they can log on to the Slavi Show and see the district division. We are ready on 11 or 18 July to vote in majority elections. That is to say, I suggest that you accept Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova's proposal to drop the words of regular parliamentary elections and, even in July, if you are sincere to your constituents, if you really want to comply, in fact, to make the National Assembly comply with the will of the referendum and with the will of the Bulgarian people, now is the time to show it. Everything else means running away from responsibility. This text that you have inserted into the form that you have imported means that maybe majority elections will happen, but some other time. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1093	The line of Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Babikan and Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1094	Yeah, we were doing a zoning. No, it wasn't Misho Konstantinov because he refused. He's your man, so go talk to him. The truth is, she refused. I went to talk to him in service and he lied to us that he would help and do nothing. At all, there is no letter from the zoning and one number. We used mathematicians to. But this is information from four years ago. Even then, when we were importing it, if you were going to do that law, you would still be checking the polls and setting them up. Five years later, I don't know how many people have emigrated thanks to your government. I don't know. Nobody knows. Nobody knows where they live. No one knows in Bulgaria what is left of what is left, which is depopulated, which is where there are more people. To do that, so we don't talk nonsense to have the right information, we have to have a census, and that's clear to any normal person. From there on out, if you want to keep talking, whatever you want. There's gonna be a vote in a minute. You will either support the text so that today's National Assembly will start working for the majority elections in two rounds, or you will not. That's it. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1095	Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1096	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! We've obviously been discussing something that's not going to happen for some time now, and I think everyone is aware of that. Apparently the election campaign is going to plenary right now, it hasn't started yet, you know. So you'd better not be running the election campaign here. To discuss: Do you regularly beat your grandmother? Answer with a "yes" or "no" is nonsense. "You are producing this debate at the moment, as if there are only two electoral systems. Please don't do this. It's pointless. What is happening tonight, already in the evening, is a conversation which is more major in Bulgaria. Mr. Yordanov knows my opinion and I am not speaking because I am of one opinion or the other, but tonight you are dealing with saving some quasi-crisis. You won't be able to solve it. When you were in a crisis last year, your leader, who is probably in shorts right now, proposed a new Constitution and a reboot to the state because he knew it wouldn't happen. You're missing a prominent lawyer, and I don't see him writing you a quick new Constitution. You're doing something like this. Please stop. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1097	Third line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1098	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dobrev, I am looking at you, listening to you, I am already sincerely enjoying the equilibristics and gymnastics that you from GERB and from "There is such a people" are doing here today in the last minutes. Because you, Mr. Dobrev, what you are proposing, very well know that it cannot happen here, now and now, just the law is quite different at the moment that we are already looking at it all day only the corrections in it. What really happens and what do viewers see today all day and in the last minutes? There is such a people, they want, but they say they can't. The others from GERB wanted to, but they couldn't. Dear Members of Parliament, you are 73, you are 53 people, if you wanted you could accept both mixed and majority and whatever system you decide. [[directed to GERB-SDS parliamentary group]] [[leads to the IHN parliamentary group]] It is obvious, however, what you are doing here and are deceiving the entire Bulgarian people at the moment. Ours is an easy one we have said, and we are consistent and principled in our position. We've had this debate many times. You know our positions, you know why we do it. So thank you. Stop with those equilibristikas just.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1099	I'll start backwards. Mr. Popov, my only line to you is that I understand your position it is clear. Mr. Krum Zarkov came here from this tribune and said: "We from BSP do not want in Bulgaria to have a majority electoral system because we think that it is not suitable for Bulgaria. Mr. Yordanov, yours is stalling. You're repeating how, yes, but some mathematicians had made one distribution, but it was four years ago, but I'm telling you again, there was no telling on which street how many people had emigrated and on which street how many people had died. In fact, there is no need for a new census in order to accept the majority system that you proposed back in 2016. And I will remind you to hear clearly in your referendum three million people voted, about three million people, was it so? Of those three million people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1100	Three and a half million.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1101	Three and a half million. Two million or more than two million said they wanted a majority system. And then you became the heroes of the referendum and said: "Behold, the Bulgarian people want a majority system, and these bad MPs in the parliament do not accept it. You entered parliament as a second political force with a huge number of MPs, with a huge really number of MPs. And from the first day you entered parliament, you started stalling and wondering how this job wouldn't work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and shouts: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1102	Let's move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Dilov, are you a candidate for a statement? But you were already here on Friday at six o'clock, it's nine and a half o'clock. Did you pass on Saturday?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1103	Thank you, Madam President. I'm not making you a note, just to echo on the subject of Good Friday is perhaps an insult to some people's feelings of religious. Otherwise, I'll be very brief, colleagues. In this House, in fact, I purposely wanted to speak first because I may be wrong, I apologize in advance if someone feels affected, but there is hardly any other representative of a political formation who has stated a firmer attitude for Bulgaria to have elections in two rounds. This is the programme of the Movement of Gorgeovden since 1996. It envisages a constitutional change, envisions the Upper Chamber or extended functions of the Constitutional Court, provides an individual complaint to the Constitutional Court because this is a complete change of the state structure leading the majority elections in two rounds. Believe me, if you think about it, if you follow what would happen, for example, if a majority elected MP in two tours suddenly became a minister, you would understand that there must be valves to stop the permanent parliamentary crisis that this could lead to. But this is a serious conversation that we had to have at another time and especially not have in three days because it's insane. It is logical that GERB will support you right now because they would look ridiculous if they did not. It makes sense that you continue to persevere because you promised people. And I am now making a very concrete proposal that might get us out of this situation, which is a bit of an inconvenience. The proposal is in the spirit and practice of this law so far, i.e. 63a......... the election system for MPs under art.................................................................................... 246 applies until the first regular elections are produced and so on, to add one if possible. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] We have met, if it is possible, in 10 places so far in this law, to put it here. And if that's not possible, inshallah. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1104	I suggest we move on to the vote now. In accordance with art. 69 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the first to vote on the motion to reject the text. We vote on the text of MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vasileva, Toshko Hadjitodorov, which is not supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] On the basis of art. 69, para. 1, t. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall put to the vote the rejection of the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1105	There's no rejection.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1106	Please take out your Rules and take a look at that in art. 69, p. 1 the vote shall be carried out in the following order: 1. Proposed rejection. I put to the vote the rejection of the importer's text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1107	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1108	Paragraph 63a, which is not supported by the Commission. There is a proposal of MPs Miteva, Vassileva and Hadjitodorov, which is not supported by the Commission. On the basis of art. 69, para. 1, t. 1 I suggest that the text be rejected. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1109	You don't have an importer there to offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1110	We have an importer and I'm reading by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1111	We have a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1112	You may have a proposal, but here it says the text of the importer and the text of Manolova. You don't have anything else on this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1113	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1114	I believe that only the proposal should be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1115	You have a proposal from the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1116	And we're putting it to the vote as put to the...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1117	I'm reading art. 69. Please don't raise your hands. I'm reading art. 69, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure: The vote shall be carried out in the following order: 1. A motion to reject it. "If the text is rejected, your editorial proposals do not make any sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1118	There is no motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1119	The Commission does not support the proposal. I'm making you an offer to reject the text. [[Noise and lines.]] If you want to continue to discuss politically who is more about the majority system, we can continue the discussion until... and Great Saturday. Here you are, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]] It is not important to vote stubbornly, but to vote because we know what we are voting. I'm reading your rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1120	Madam President, there is no text of an importer here, since we voted on the previous § 63 and moved on to a proposal between the first and second votes of § 63a, that is, we are not at all in the hypothesis of a motion to reject. We must vote on the proposal between first and second reading to create § 63a, and then Maya Manolova for § 63a with quite another text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1121	Are you telling me that you, with the proposal for the majority system attached to the copy, have imported it between first and second readings as a harmless proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1122	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1123	What if you've been running those frogs for 20 years now that I don't understand? [[Noise and lines.]] Well, big signs you made. In my opinion, regulations are meant to contain rules, not to contain political signs. And after we used for hours of yelling and on the Great Saturday we came in, what are you doing all this for? I tell you, as a man who was the victim of the majority system, that as you begin to fall, you will lose all your majority mandates. There was a case like this in Canada a few years ago. [[Noise and lines.]] So what do you propose to vote on?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1124	Madam President, you have rightly noted and referred to the Rules of Procedure, but Mrs Miteva was right in this case, correcting you. But I am going back to the Rules because there is a proposal for an amendment and it must be made according to the Rules, Art. 69, para. 1, t. 4 to put the entire text to the vote first, before all, with importers Miteva, Vasileva and Hadjigenov. This is my procedure first, editing, then the whole text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1125	First the editing, but it is point four of art. 69 of the Rules I'm reading to you. And it turns out that you, the big wrestlers for the majority system, didn't even have a major proposal. Okay. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1126	Mrs. Doncheva, we had a bill that was rejected with your vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1127	Once upon a time. Once upon a time. Mr. Hamid, what do you want? Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1128	Mrs. Chairman! I've been complimenting Mr. Vigenin all day today that he was perfect at keeping you perfect, too, until just now. Because the entire draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code contains more than 120 proposals which were not allowed to be considered with the application of art. 82...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1129	84.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1130	Yes, 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This proposal is therefore in the same category. Therefore, if you are going to allow this vote, please restore all the texts, including my friend Boris Tsvetkov, where you did not allow them all, and all the MPs, because it is not serious with the Transitional and Final Provisions to change a whole system, colleagues, without being considered at first reading. [[noise and lines]] Moreover, such a proposal, such a project for a majority system, was tabled at first reading by another group and rejected. How did a majority system suddenly appear in the "Transitional and Final Provisions" system? Please follow the Rules and do not put this to the vote at all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1131	You will allow me to respect Mr. Hamid's offer and not put to the vote legislative belletrics. [[Applause and cheering]] I put to the vote Mrs. Maya Manolova, Angelov and Yonchev's proposal for art. 63a, not supported by the Commission. [[crowd cheering and chirping]] [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please vote on the proposal. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov wants to be given a break.]] Please, we're in voting mode, then you'll ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1132	I suggest a break while Tanya Doncheva is navigating.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1133	Please, we are in voting mode regarding the proposal of Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev for art. 63a. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The proposal is not supported by the Commission. [[Noise, lines and screams.]] Please, then you will make a note in the manner of keeping. You can't ask for a break in the last hour. We're on the last texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1134	Tanya Doncheva is the victim of the majority choice and apparently she doesn't even want to go to a vote, which is touching. Take a break, please, keep what you're quoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1135	Mr. Yordanov, you have no right to ask for a break in the last hour! [[Loud noise and lines.]] We're in the last two texts. We're in the last two texts, if you think we're gonna stand still...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1136	And the parliamentary group, stand up! Goons out, he wants a break. [[Noise and lines.]] We want a break, we're not in the last hour. Ten-minute break wants our parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1137	Quiet, please! We're voting on these two paragraphs. There are three more texts left. Do you think we'll be discussing them for over an hour? [[Noise and lines.]] If you think we're going to vote, I'm taking ten minutes off. I'm canceling the vote for ten minutes. Figure out what you want to vote on and who's more major. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1138	We're continuing the hearing. Take your time with the applause, because you're getting to the next problem soon, but for now we're going to reject a few members, I hope. [[Loud applause.]] [[Elevator bell dings]] We move on to the vote as the discussion is closed. First, I put to the vote the editorial proposal of GERB from the text of Iva Miteva, Victoria Vassileva and Toshko Yordanov to take up regular. [[Applause]] [[Noise and lines.]] Vote properly and everything will be as it should be. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1140	This text should have been stopped in the Commission, Mr Hamid, when it passed through the Commission, there is no way we can avoid voting in this House. Now I want a lot of things, too, but rules are rules to me. Right? Vote 217 MPs: for 73, against 143, one of the system abstentions 2. Please announce in groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1141	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1142	Do you hold on to this result, Mr. Dobrev? What coworker couldn't change our minds? [[Replys: No, no, no!]] There isn't one. We're moving on. There was another editorial proposal from Mr. Lyuben Dilov to be added: after the entry into force of this law comma if possible. Do you want to vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1143	If possible, I can withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1144	It's possible, Mr. Dilov. [[Applause.]] Then we vote the entire test on the proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Victoria Vasileva and Toshko Hadjitodorov on the creation of art. 63a. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1145	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1146	Vote 220 MPs: 125 against 94, abstention 1. [[GERB-SDS.]] Actually, it's 95. That's how the offer is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the people's ideas Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev to create a new § 63a. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1148	One voice online from the platform. Vote 220 MPs: 48 against 166, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1149	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1150	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 70. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1152	They voted 145 MPs: 144 against 1, no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1153	Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev on a new § 64a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. In the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 14 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1154	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to create § 71, which is based on the proposal of Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me, but I have to cancel this vote. I give the floor to Mr. Boris Tsvetkov for an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1155	My fellow Members, I propose to add the following text to this paragraph: (1) The settlements which, on the day of the promulgation of the Decree of the President of the Republic for the imposition of general elections for municipal councillors and mayors shall comply with the requirement of art. 14 of the Law on the Administrative and territorial structure of the Republic of Bulgaria acquire the status of city hall and there are elections for mayors of mayors at the same time as the production of elections for municipal councillors and for mayors. (2) The mayors of the settlements which, on the day of the entry into force of this law, meet the requirements of art. 14 of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria continue to carry out their powers until the oath is taken by the newly elected Mayor of City Hall. (3) Upon termination of the authority of a mayor in the settlement under para. 2, The mayor of the municipality may appoint a new mayor. Ladies and gentlemen, this addition is, in case it brings together a majority, the proposed paragraph to clarify the situation with the situation of mayors appointed by the municipal mayors, because there will already be a new way of electing mayors and, in my opinion, it is important that it be voted along with the other paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1156	You heard the offer. It seems to me that if there is a majority for this supplement, there will also be a majority for the main text. I therefore put the proposal for an addition by Mr. Tsvetkov to the vote first. Unfortunately, it is necessary to do so because otherwise there will be no necessary arrangements if the text in the main part proposed by the Commission is adopted. That is consistent, as far as I understand it, so I ask for a voting procedure. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] It's agreed with me. I'm asking for a vote procedure. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] We are now voting on the proposal for an addition from Mr. Tsvetkov, then we will vote on the main text. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you are, Mrs. Miteva. If we keep this up, I'll come down from here and whoever wants to hold their meeting from now on. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] No, because when things like this are done at the last minute, things like this happen, what happened just now, which is going to happen in a little while. I'll cancel the vote and give the floor to Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First you have to put to the vote the reduction of the number from 350 to 100 and if it is adopted, the change in the Law on the administrative and territorial structure of the Republic of Bulgaria, then the text that Mr. Tsvetkov proposed should be adopted as a separate paragraph after that of reducing the number, in order to be able to settle the status of the Vice-Presidents, because otherwise they will remain in a pending position. This is a text that we accept every time we reduce the number. It's in the Election Code, including Zaturban. So you have to say it because one text says that these settlements acquire the status of mayors and elections are made in the next general elections, and in the second subparagraph you have to say that those mayors who are currently there must continue to exercise their powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1158	Mrs. Miteva, I can continue to argue because, what if we accept this text now and do not accept the text proposed by Mr. Tsvetkov. [[Heckling]] Well, it doesn't make sense, but a lot of things didn't make sense here today. Some accepted, some didn't. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I'll deal with it. You, as President of the National Assembly, are still taking responsibility for what you just said. I shall put to the vote first the Commission's proposal to create § 71.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1160	Vote 217 MPs plus one of the platform's 218: for 145, against 65, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the text proposed by Mr. Tsvetkov. Maybe or may not, we need to settle the status of these welded mayor's deputies. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Boris Tsvetkov and it is logical that those who voted for § 71 should also support this. I say this because then you will say that there are contradictions in the texts and we will vote a third time. [[Noise and lines.]] So please, don't worry, who wants to vote like they do. After all, we will announce the outcome and everything will become clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1162	Vote 168 MPs plus 1 from the platform.. 169: for 144, against 10, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1163	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 65 and proposes to reject it. There is a proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev to cancel § 65 of the text of the importer and § 66 is renumbered. The Commission does not support the proposal. Colleagues, whereas § 65 by importer will have to be renumbered and this numbering here is not up to date.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1164	First, I vote on the proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Minko Angelov and Rumen Yonchev. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With this proposal, the Parliamentary Group is standing up! It offers the creation of a multi-branded electoral region abroad now and not delayed in the autumn after the census by the National Statistical Institute. We believe that one of the more important proposals in the Election Code should be adopted for now, immediately, because people really expect there to be a change. Having given passionate speeches from this tribune, for I want the Bulgarians abroad to vote more, to vote in more electoral sections, to vote freely and after the post-election vote was not accepted, at least to accept the creation of a multi-manded electoral region abroad. I think we owe it to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1166	Are there any other statements? I can't see. [[Reply from the People's Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] If you want to make an offer, please, if not, let's not delay time. I put to the vote first § 65, which is not supported by the Commission and proposes to be rejected. This is § 65 p. 90. Vote 218 MPs: 114, against 92, abstention 12. In my understanding, the text remains. [[Noise and lines.]] I mean, the text of the importer has been accepted. That's what I meant. [[Noise and lines.]] Tell me what's not clear now. [[Noise and lines.]] I see. I'm explaining what we're voting on and we're going to take a second vote. Is that okay? To make it clear who voted on what. I'll put it to the vote §65 by importer. The Commission does not support the text, but I am subjecting the text on which an importer is to vote, not the Commission proposal. That is, whoever wants the text to remain voted for, who wants to vote against. Is that clear now? [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Vote 219 MPs: 128 against 77 abstentions 14. The proposal is accepted, that is, the text of § 65 remains.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1167	It doesn't make any sense. That's why it's voted first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1168	Because it makes no sense otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1169	Mr. Chairman, if you had put this text before the other proposal in my opinion, so that there wouldn't be any confusion. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, just to make sure we don't make a mistake. You want the floor?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1170	My fellow Members, I hope you understand what you voted for. With the vote to postpone the establishment of a multi-mandated electoral area abroad. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you understand what you voted for? [[Replicates from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Yes, yes! "]] Okay. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1171	Let's just say it was the way we kept it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1172	It's you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1173	To me, yes. Let's just say he wanted to make it clear that I didn't understand. What do we do now?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1174	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1175	We can't, because we've been overreacting, there's no way. [[Loud noise, lines and applause by GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1176	My fellow Members, since it is clear that you do not wish to have a multi-mandated electoral area now abroad, I suggest that we pay attention to a contradiction in the Election Code, which we have admitted with the vote in... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1177	REPLICA: This is not in the way of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1178	I want a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1179	Wait a minute. [[Noise and lines.]] I can't give you the floor, I don't know what that is. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I have no reason to give you the floor now, Mrs. Manolova. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1180	On the basis of Constitutional Decision No 4...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1181	Well, there isn't one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1182	...from 13 March 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1183	There's no text to suggest that. [[Strong noise and lines, banging on the banks by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1184	There's a contradiction. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1185	Okay. Even if there is a contradiction, it will have to be decided otherwise clearly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1186	Yes, you are! On the contrary, there is a constitutional solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1187	There's a way to solve this, probably another way. Third vote... No, Mrs. Manolova, I give the floor to the President of the Commission under § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1188	Dear colleagues... [[(Sighs:) and banging on the banks by GERB-SDS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1189	Please, Mrs. Manolova, let me...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1190	Okay, the way you're leading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1191	How many times? You're also currently in the way of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1192	My fellow Members, there is a contradiction in the vote. [[Strong noise and lines, banging on the banks by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1193	Mrs. Manolova, please stop this. [[Noise and lines.]] I take your word for it, Mrs. Manolova, because you've exhausted the procedure you requested. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]] I give the floor to the President of the Commission under § 66. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Would you like to take the floor, Mr. Chairman, or should I put it to the vote? [[Loud noise and lines.]] ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 72. Please vote procedure. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Which text? [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Here you go, Mrs. Manolova, by text. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The text should be, otherwise I'll take the floor, logically.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1194	Dear Mr. President, you are in charge of the meeting, but please follow the ethical norms and rules of the Rules of Procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1195	Mrs. Manolova, I follow the rules. By text, when does it come into effect?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1196	Dear Mr. Chairman, I understand that you want to block the creation of electoral sections abroad, but follow the rules. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1197	Mrs. Manolova, I take your word for it. I'm voting § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1198	No, you can't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1199	Please vote procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1200	Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1201	There is no one to speak under § 66, Mrs. Manolova. Please, vote procedure, please. [[Noise and lines.]] I understand there may be contradictions. You had to think about how to prepare and vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1202	Okay, let me expose them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1203	We've heard these questions. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1204	Okay, I have another suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1205	You can't have under § 66 another proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1206	Okay, I'd like to speak under § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1207	Vote against it and you may speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1208	You can't! No, you can't take my word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1209	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Manolova. [[Noise and lines.]] We're in a voting procedure. Please exercise your right to vote if you wish, of course. [[Applause and loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1210	I'd like to speak on the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1211	You're not speaking on the text. We're in a voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1212	Okay, you didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1213	We're in voting procedure, Mrs. Manolova, at § 66. [[Noise and lines.]] I can't as a host solve problems that you haven't solved in advance. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] I don't know what you're talking about right now. Please call off the vote. 195 MPs voted: for 194, against 1, no abstentions. [[Applause.]] For a negative vote, please, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1214	Explanations of negative vote, colleagues, against this text being published in the Official Journal. Colleagues, Mr. Dilov a few hours ago asked the meeting to be terminated because in our cultural tradition on this day nothing is being done, no work is being done, the day is about reflection and humility, and every thing that is done on this day is not a good end. I can explain it to you with a concept of divination, I can explain it with a concept of quantum physics. [[Noise and lines.]] No, no, I can explain it with a concept of quantum physics, but what happens in this room is proof that nothing good will come out of it. I've been thinking from before, guys, what's going on, and actually...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1215	Where is the negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1216	That's the negative vote. I'm explaining to you why it's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1217	Please don't interrupt the speaker, colleagues. We're almost there. Let's keep the good tone. Go on, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1218	I do not know, colleagues, what will come out in the Official Gazette and from now I am ashamed of what will be published in the Official Gazette, because it will be a monument of political irresponsibility and legal weakness. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] We don't have a majority vote, no e-vote, no mail voting, no machine voting. I mean, there's an engine vote somewhere, but there might not be any. Video surveillance may be there, but maybe there won't be. The only thing it has is a new Central Election Commission, which will be appointed by the President, and I do not want to be in the position of the President and this Central Election Commission, which will have to carry out what, if published in the Official Gazette. [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, I've been thinking about it for a second.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1219	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much, 10 to 15 seconds, to complete your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1220	Just one more second, guys, I'm not gonna waste your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1221	We're not in a hurry anymore, I think.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1222	Look, all this time we've been trying to be state responsible, really. And what I'm thinking now, our only chance, our only chance of getting out of this situation is for the President to veto and immediately disband Parliament so that what will not come into force in the Official Gazette, so that we are not ashamed and that we do not throw the state into a constitutional crisis. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-29.u1223	Thank you. Are there any other negative votes? I can't see. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next regular meeting on Wednesday 5 May 2021 at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
