ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u1	My fellow Members, in order to open the sitting, I should establish that more than half of the declared Members of Parliament are present in the Chamber. Theverification of the quorum will take place through the electronic voting system. Please register! 228 Members of the Parliament shall be present after registration in the Chamber. There's a constitutionally necessary quorum. I'm opening the first session of the forty-seventh National Assembly. [[Ringing. Huge applause.]] The meeting will be delivered directly on the Bulgarian National Television and on the Bulgarian National Radio. Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Your Excellencies, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable President Plevneliev and Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the religious communities in the Republic of Bulgaria, honourable Members of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, dear compatriots! Today, we are witnessing an extraordinary situation - a lack of confidence in institutions and the political system. In society, there is no sense of justice or legality. Poverty is everyday and affects more and more compatriots from different layers of society. About two million Bulgarian citizens are abroad. Most of them are young people, students, young specialists in individual areas who have gained professional experience and knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to see so many young people in the 40th National Assembly. I believe in young people because they bring a new look, new ideas, a lot of energy, their goals, ideals and expectations. I would like to remind them of the words of two great thinkers and philosophers. For freedom, freedom is not to do what you want, but not to do what you don't want to do, and for the truth, the truth is initially denied by everyone, then allowed to be possible by some of the people and finally accepted by everyone because it is true. It is time to put aside our personal and private political differences in the name of national and public interests. It is time to remember that the will and desire to change, even if they are common, make things possible, but do not make them easy. Transparency in the actions of the political forces and keeping the promises made, political correctness will restore confidence in statehood. Our people place extremely important and crucial problems for solving and we must justify trust with a sense of responsibility and mobilization of our intellectual abilities and our morality for solving them in the name of Bulgaria and of all Bulgarians. Honourable Members, the most important moment is yet to come. Please stand up and repeat after me. [[Everyone rises and repeats the oath.]] I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! Congratulations! [[Loud applause.]] We will now listen to the anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. [[(Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound. (Applause)]] I would like to remind you to sign the vowed leaves and ask the Quaestors to collect them. Dear MPs, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rumen Radev is present in the Chamber, who will address the people and the National Assembly. [[The People's Representatives from..We continue the Change, the BSP for Bulgaria............................................................................................... Huge applause.]] Dear Mr. President, you have the floor to address.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u2	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice President, honourable representatives of the Constitutional Court, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable Presidents and Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the religious communities in the Republic of Bulgaria, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear compatriots! It is an honor to be among the first to speak before the forty-seventh National Assembly. First of all, let me congratulate all of you, the people of our people, whom people have voted to be trusted to represent them! The hopes of the new parliament are enormous and the stakes are crucial. Before we speak our first words from this high tribune, before the first vote in the National Assembly, let us consider the mission the Bulgarian citizens have assigned us. For the first time in a year we are forming a third National Assembly. The previous two members of parliament lived briefly. Their tribune heard uncomfortable truths, important questions were raised, but they failed to form a sustainable majority and broadcast a cabinet. After the political passions in April came disappointment from the second parliamentary fall in July. But the Bulgarians did not turn back and the elections in November showed it. Yes, our society is still looking for a way out of the corrupt status quo, but it has already said a way out of the conquered state and the restoration of authoritarianism! It's time for a national consensus. It should contain important priorities to return freedom, legality and justice to the Bulgarians. These values are a prerequisite for overcoming poverty, for the prosperity and modernisation of Bulgaria. First of all, we need a political consensus of the reformist forces on the need for sustainable, reformist, social governance. It is up to him to have a government, it is up to him and the life of parliament itself, and the fate of our political system, which cannot bear yet another early elections in the middle of the winter season. It also depends on the fate of people who expect urgent parliamentary solutions to overcome the crises. That is why I would also like to welcome the talks that have been launched in advance between potential partners in future governance. Parliament's very mission is built around the consensus on sovereignty. Deep public processes for the restoration of democracy and statehood are taking place in Bulgaria. You are called upon to breathe new life into parliamentary control, which has been effectively cancelled over the past years; to create conditions for the revival of free speech as a guarantor of transparency and pluralism; to bring citizens back to government; to improve the electoral process. The loss of confidence in the political class, in all of us, was evident in the withdrawal from the polls during this year's election marathon. We cannot allow any more waste of historical time or be subject to populism and lying. The public expects us to finally update the electoral lists before the number of voters exceeds the population. The important national consensus is that of legality and justice. If we want this Parliament to be lasting and useful, it should return public life to the mermaid of the law. A priority task is the disassembly of the prosecutor's umbrella over corruption and abuse. It provides impunity both to the big corrupters and to the domestic criminals who harass the country's forgotten Bulgarians. I hope that all Democrats from both the left and the right in this National Assembly are convinced that this is the key to the future. If parliament fails to achieve decisive changes in the prosecution within a reasonable period, the past will very soon seek a political rematch under the cover of this same umbrella. Without justice and legality, all good intentions are doomed to failure. No less important is the consensus on economic and social policy. Bulgarian citizens expect urgent measures and legal changes from the 14th National Assembly to allow additional measures to deal with the social and economic crisis on the threshold of the winter months. Fighting the pandemic also remains a priority task. This year, for the first time, the National Assembly adopted an update of the budget, which was prepared by a caretaker government. I would like to thank those of you who took part in this process. Our society expects the same responsible attitude from this Parliament in the adoption of the state budget for next year. I am following the attitudes on this subject, but I think, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, that it is worth considering the budget which the caretaker government is obliged by law to bring to Parliament - it provides income growth, support for families with children, care for the elderly, stimulating the development of small municipalities, creating conditions for economic growth. Today is particularly important and the consensus on foreign policy in which all institutions are firmly called to defend national interest. It is important, in my opinion, that Bulgarian diplomacy be in the hands of career professionals. We need consensus on all important foreign policy issues, especially when our Bulgarian identity, our history and culture and the rights of our compatriots abroad are at stake. I assure you that the presidential institution is open to dialogue and cooperation on all important foreign policy issues. Along with all these urgent tasks, Bulgaria's drastic slowdown on all important indicators in the European Union, as well as the need to speed up the modernisation of the country require this Parliament to undertake long overdue reforms and legal changes, so that we can mark success in education, health, social, economics, culture, sport, public order and security. However, they will not give the desired effect unless transparency and predictability of the legal process are guaranteed. It is high time to put an end to the wicked practice of changing key laws quietly through Transitional and Final Regulations into laws that are not at the centre of public attention. This is the door to lobbying, and it needs to be closed. Furthermore, the legislative changes that have been introduced through the Recovery and Sustainability Plan already deposited in the European Union must also find their timely and rational solution not only to enable the Plan to be implemented, but also to create the necessary conditions for an accelerated economic transformation and overall modernisation of the country. I will allow myself, ladies and gentlemen, to repeat what I have shared before the forty-fifth National Assembly that all of the above will remain only good wishes if we do not mobilise our efforts to achieve the most important immediate national goal of strengthening statehood. We need unwavering action to continue the disabling of the voters' rejection management model, to promote the rule of law, to remove the backstage from the state, to suffocate corruption, to strengthen transparency and control over public spending. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, many analysts have announced that the 40th and seventh National Assembly elections put an end to the transition. It's an opportunity for me, but it's not a done deal. It is up to you that Parliament to close the age of transition. I am convinced that we can no longer afford to waste historical time and national resources. I believe that this Parliament, the youngest so far, has the capacity, energy and determination to restore the optimism of the Bulgarians and to lead the country on the path of freedom, development and modernization. I sincerely wish you every success in your highly responsible mission. Good luck! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u3	Honourable Members of Parliament, we continue with the representative part of the meeting in which I have to give the floor to representatives of the various political parties and coalitions represented in the National Assembly after the elections on 14 November 2021. I give the floor to the representative of Coalition. We continue the Change. Here you go. [[Applause from the parliamentary group of.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u4	Dear Bulgarian citizens living in Bulgaria and abroad, Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Constitutional Court, Your Excellencies, Dear Representatives of the Religious Communities in Bulgaria, Ladies and Gentlemen Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Members of the Judicial Authority and the Bar Association, Dear President Plevneliev, Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Ombudsman, Dear Representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, Dear Guests, Dear Members! It is time to make sense of the words of the MP. National representative is a person who represents not only his constituents but the entire Bulgarian people. It is our duty to serve the Bulgarian people proud people with great history, located on the most beautiful corner of the Earth, but unfortunately, for too long a large part of the people's representatives before us have not done their job well and this is why Bulgaria is facing huge challenges. Nearly two million of our countrymen have chosen a place for their home outside Bulgaria. In every square where we met with our constituents, we were told: "Please bring our young people back to us. " These words were usually uttered through tears by elderly people, of whom 42% live on the poverty line, and over 40% of their grandchildren who remained in Bulgaria could not have a threesome in mathematics and Bulgarian last year in the fourth grade. What about the hospital in Yambol, where the sick are carried with blankets between the floors, or the people in Silistra, who have been waiting thirty years to have a bridge over the Danube, or the people in Vidin, where they were hoping to see a tunnel under Petrohan or at least the road Botevgrad Vidin, Vratsa Vidin? What about the mythical tunnel under Shipka, which is less than 4 km long, but really has not even begun and the connection between South and Northern Bulgaria remains only a dream in the people of Gabrovo? Not to mention the enormous danger that the whole of Montana faces if the unrepaired wall of their dam were to succumb to this would cause a six-metre wave flooding the entire city. Even in our prosperous cities, such as Plovdiv, have we not been able to complete a circular? And what about the whole of Northern Bulgaria, waiting for the highway, which is supposedly being built, but other than the billions spent, there is no road?! What about the environment with all the criminal procedures from Europe and all our overcrowded dumps?! And the price of electricity?! What about the famous link from Greece?! But how did we get here? Where were the MPs who were supposed to solve these problems? The answer lies in just a few words of greed, selfishness and carelessness, not at all, but at many of them. And on our broken roads we get away with Maybasi, Rolls-Royce, Ferraris, but not of successful competitive business leaders, but of people associated with power, people who have hooked up in one or another form of the state budget, people who spend our taxes in peace, as if it were their father's. They're just corrupt lobbyists without any real business. Ladies and gentlemen, this has to stop! This has to stop today! Let each of us as the MP say: I want to be part of the change, we will solve these problems! All together to state: it is time for zero tolerance for corruption; it is time for zero tolerance for theft; it is time for real justice in Bulgaria, where no one feels impunity; it is time for us to defend the true interests of our constituents without fear of the so-called political investors; it is time to overcome our personal ego and work together; it is time to make Bulgaria proud; it is time for prosperous Bulgaria! It is time for us to be an active member of the European Union to give constructive positions in the Union and actually help develop it. It is time for Bulgaria to be a leader in the region and an example of good neighbourliness. It is time for Bulgaria to have a reputation as a partner country that can be trusted. It is time for Bulgaria, where young people return. It is time for Bulgaria, where elderly people can have decent old age. It's time for innovation, investment, competitiveness. It is time to put a new meaning in the words of the MP. It's time for all of us to do our job. Thank you. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and "ITN."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u5	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. I give the floor to the representative of Coalition GERB SDS. Mrs. Atanasova, come in. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u6	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Your Excellencies, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable President Plevneliev and Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the religious communities in the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Ombudsman, Madam President of the Central Election Commission, honourable Members of the National Assembly, colleagues! During this year, two successive parliaments failed in their attempt to broadcast a regular government of the country. This failure was punished by Bulgarian voters with record low turnout and collapse of support for the parties that participated directly in it. These two facts must be taken into account by all of us, and we must comply with them. Due to the low turnout, the current Parliament does not have enough legitimacy to afford new adventures and waste time producing scandals. From now on, it is clear that whatever the majority in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly will not be the result of strong public energy but will be the result of compromises. We must bear in mind that the configuration in this Parliament is much more of a necessity than a positive choice of citizens. It is much more the result of the vote against it than the vote for it. It is not clear how many Bulgarian citizens were deprived of their right to vote because of the machine vote and repression by the caretaker government. Therefore, any illusion that someone has defeated an appeal and on this basis has the right to dictate certain rules to others will break down in reality. As the illusion of the so-called protest parties was really shattered that they had a majority in the 45th and 46th National Assembly. We hope that the mistakes that have failed the last two parliaments will not be repeated in this, and we will all together approach with a sufficiently high dose of humility and responsibility to the complex situation in which our country is located. We are fully aware of the need to establish a regular government and structuring a working parliament as a first step towards exiting the political crisis and taking rapid measures with regard to health, economic and social challenges. Therefore, from today you can rely on reasonable and correct attitude from Coalition GERB-SDS. Ladies and gentlemen, in the forty-seventh National Assembly the parliamentary group of GERB SDS will be the opposition However, we do not see our role as opposition as a political instrument for increasing the tensions in society. We are aware that the challenges facing the country are too great and can only be answered by reasonable solutions, public unity and political agreement on the most important topics for the country. We are therefore ready to have constructive and public talks with each of the political forces in this Parliament and to support any proposal that defends the Bulgarian national interest, helps to overcome the crises we are in more quickly and gives us prospects for development of our country. At the same time, we would like to remind you that this year we have appeared three times in elections and three times we earn the trust of more than 20% of Bulgarian voters. A political party GERB was established 15 years ago on today and today is the time to thank all thousands of members and sympathizers who supported us despite the threats, extinction, repression. [[Applause from GERB]] Thank you, we won't betray you! [[Applause from GERB.]] And today we are responsible to our nearly 600,000 voters, who expect us to be clear and firm positions and intransigence towards non-compliance with the laws and Constitution of the country. And that's exactly what our constituents will get. As much as we need a regular government and stability in the government in Bulgaria, we will not allow this to happen at the price of the Bulgarian national interest, in violation of the law and misuse of words, such as zero corruption and integrity. In recent years, in our role as governors, we have been subjected to constant attacks and have worked under severe public opposition. We are therefore aware, more than anyone in this House, of the importance of opposition's approach to the ruling majority. Even before, and now we understand the role of the opposition not necessarily as an ability to emit noise and aggression. In difficult and complex times, such as today's role of the opposition should be a reasonable corrective that not only criticizes but also gives proposals and actively participates in decision-making. Today, therefore, we wish success to parties that are already negotiating to establish a regular government and call on them not to miss the opportunity to seek agreement with the opposition on important issues for society. We call on all the political forces in the forty-seventh National Assembly to concentrate their efforts in solving the big problems of overcoming different crises and at least in the next few months not to waste energy on personal attacks and insults, confrontation and self-inflicted rematchism. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, I can guarantee that if a regular government of the country is formed, it will receive the necessary tolerance and, if desired, can rely on our expertise and experience in the preparation of the budget for the next year, whose discussion we insist on being in this calendar. Our main priorities and opposition will be: quality education; combating crises; investment; accelerated growth; increasing the incomes of Bulgarians; helping businesses and citizens to overcome the price crisis, which could have severe economic consequences. At the same time, we will insist that every penny of government debt be justified and spent wisely so that the Bulgarian financial system is adapted to the euro area. We will categorically oppose the concept of increasing citizens' incomes by taking loans that worsen the sustainability of public finances and burden future generations. Our first draft decision will be to impose a moratorium on the withdrawal of new government debt until the election of a regular government. Moreover, the new ruling majority assured that by stopping corruption, 8 billion would come into the budget. lv. per year. In this sense, after the half-year government of the caretaker government we expect this money to be provided in the budget in 2022 and to be spent to increase the standard of living of Bulgarian citizens. If this is not foreseen, it means that the eight billion stolen money thesis was a pre-election lie. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Bulgaria has lost too much political time over the past six months. The great task of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly is to bring the country back to its normal pace of development and restore bridges between parties, institutions and different groups in society. We should not set goals that we are not able to achieve, but we are obliged to exceed the ego, the bad daily themes and even the close-party interests in the name of facilitating all Bulgarian citizens who face the challenges of the crisis. We are convinced that this is the only way to restore confidence in parliament, in parties and in the country's capacity to defend its national interest. It is up to all of us to give the Bulgarians confidence that they can live in a country of security and tranquility and if we do, they will respond with confidence. Thank you for your attention. God save Bulgaria! Good luck to all of us! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I give the floor to the representative of the Political Party. Here you go. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Your Excellencies, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable President Plevneliev, honourable Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable leaders of the religious communities in the Republic of Bulgaria, honourable Mrs. Ombudsman, honourable representatives of the Central Election Commission, honourable Members of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, dear compatriots! The forty-seventh National Assembly is set up at the end of a year, which we will remember with crises and elections. The crises caused elections, the elections provoked and deepened the crises. And if something distinguishes the forty-seventh National Assembly from the previous ones, it is the unconditional responsibility with which we are charged by the voters to interrupt the series of early elections and start solving the crises. That's exactly what all the voters want. Those who did not vote showed us that they do not want to vote for politicians and parties who, instead of solving their problems, deal with themselves. The voters gave their vote to the parties to put an end to the political crisis and to unite around working solutions to their problems, but did not give power to any party. Voters obliged parliamentary parties to seek maximum agreement on national priorities and ways to resolve crises. In short, the dialogue is restored. And in order not to be misunderstood, we will emphasise that both in every Parliament and in this Parliament, there will be ruling and opposition, but constructive political dialogue must be at the heart of the search for the right solutions. The DPS parliamentary group will work to restore normality in politics. Ladies and gentlemen, at the start of the forty-seventh Parliament, we will not be politically correct unless we conduct an analysis of the electoral process. This year we have had three parliamentary choices, two of them with a new electoral technology. In the Forty-fourth National Assembly, the DPS proposed a machine counting of paper ballots in order to minimize invalid voices and eliminate subjective factor when counting the votes and when drawing up the sectional protocols. Instead, this model was adopted, which pushed at least half a million Bulgarian citizens away from the elections. The analysis of the July and November elections shows that the low turnout of both choices is due to all other factors and the difficulties caused by the machines. The aim of any electoral legislation is to ensure honesty, but also to make it possible for all Bulgarian citizens to exercise their right to vote without difficulty. Today it is clear to all of us that the older generation, as well as the less educated people, had problems with this kind of vote. It is our duty to ensure an honest but accessible electoral process. A special place in the analysis of the past three elections for the National Assembly should be allocated to the organisation of the electoral process and the conditions in which they were held. Two of these three choices were organised by office offices. Our hope was that it was they who would stop GERB's vicious practice in the last decade to use all possible instruments of the executive for pressure on the structures and voters of political opponents. Unfortunately, none of this happened. Quite the opposite. The pressure and repression of the interior minister in both last choices passed all limits. Under the slogan "Fighting with the bought vote" crimes against the human, civil and political rights of Bulgarian citizens were committed, illegal arrests, entry into the homes of adults and sick people, intimidation of party activists not to conduct legitimate agitation and so on and so forth. We've been alerting the police for a long time now that their behavior could get out of control. The unacceptable is the fact that police officers entered the polls on election day, and this is expressly prohibited by law. Basic principles have been violated, the law has been completely violated. In these cases, where were the authorities called upon to manage the electoral process? CEC, RIK, they're talking! The CEC as a major authority in the country that manages the electoral process has created uncertainty with its incompetence to manage it. The CEC could not convince voters that all votes were accounted for. We have evidence that the CEC has not reported all the actual votes. This is a question to which the CEC owes answers. I would like to make it very clear from this tribune that the DPS will not leave any case unfulfilled and no case in which there is a violation or a crime unpunished, because people have told us that these perversions of the police remind them of those dark times before 1989. Everyone must bear his own responsibility for the abuse of power. The uncritical admission of the ugly manifestations of police and interference in the electoral process are erosion of statehood and democracy and cannot have any justification. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The electorate has assigned us the heavy task of stabilizing the political process and starting to find the right solutions for exiting the crises. How do we DPS understand that? First of all, to restore dialogue between political entities and between institutions. When we talk about the rule of law, this means that we must first strictly respect the Constitution and the laws of the country. Bulgaria is in an unprecedented combination of crises - political, health, social, economic and so on. Their solution requires the efforts of the entire nation and the use of all resources and opportunities. The political crisis must begin with the establishment of a regular cabinet. The MRF from 2017 points out the formula of the...................................................................................................... A year ago, we proposed that an expert cabinet be established, which by the end of 2020 prepare and submit the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the operational programmes, and prepare the state budget for 2021, in line with these two topics, then organise fair and democratic elections. Today, after a year, we regret to find that Bulgaria is fatally late with its Recovery and Sustainability Plan, while other countries have already realised more than 30% of their own. The operational programmes are not mentioned at all, and the state budget for 2022 is postponed in time. Very soon, all of us will be able to rethink the meaning of the word poverty. It is not difficult to predict what follows for rising food prices, electricity, heating and so on. We warn that none of the crises will be resolved permanently unless we find the right algorithm to solve the coven pandemic. Bulgaria is losing the battle with the pandemic due to the irresponsible attitude of the executive, especially in the last year. In just the last three months, the country has lost more people than in World War II. We, the DPS, propose on measures to deal with this crisis, that there be no ruling and opposition, that we all unite with consensus on a plan to solve the problems and follow it together. Ladies and gentlemen! Bulgaria needs to do its homework as soon as possible under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, operational programmes, as well as the state budget corresponding to them. Bulgarian citizens expect solutions from us that will have a positive impact on their income, standard of living and security. Bulgarian employers expect us to make the state and its institutions their partner, European and NATO partners expect us to be predictable and loyal ally. The DPS will contribute to the realization of these expectations. I wish everyone health, patience and wisdom! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u9	I give the floor to the representative of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u10	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Your Excellencies, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable President Plevneliev and Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, honourable Members of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen and dear Bulgarian citizens! We wish you good luck at the forty-seventh National Assembly! Let it be a successful, reasonable and with the best decisions for Bulgaria and for the people a four-year term! We from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria are entering this parliament with three priorities. The first is the launch of the real change of the current model of governance, the restoration of statehood and constitutional principles of separation of authorities, the rule of law, justice, equality, freedom and peace. Second, the translation of the state and of the Bulgarian people through the crises with care for the people. And thirdly, an active pro-European foreign policy of equal partners with other EU member states, for the accelerated adoption of Bulgaria's Recovery and Sustainability Plan and for moving forward the operational programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, five years ago right here, we named the current model of governance as: a parallel state of the backstage and a people enslaved by their own. And we started our fight, we were alone, and it wasn't easy. Then we pointed out our biggest enemies and they were not a political party GERB. Our biggest enemies were fear and apathy, people's despair that nothing could change. We have tried during these years to give them strength and courage and a year ago thousands of Bulgarian citizens went out into the squares that overcome this fear and demanded change. And today we understand our task of making this change. For us, it consists of three simple things. First of all, laws passed with care for people, not in someone's personal and lobbying interests. Secondly, controlling the implementation of these laws, because whatever laws we make if they do not apply, it makes no sense. And thirdly, fair justice for the one who violated them. If we cross corruption in its embryo, the lobbying laws, if we make the administration quick and effective and introduce the e-government, and if we reform the judiciary, then the change has happened. We from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria have one advantage. We have gained experience in our suffering five-year battles with the previous model of governance, and we are therefore aware of what needs to be done step by step. We are ready with a specific antlobist legislative program. We know the resistance and the power of the behind-the-scenes, and we have the will to face it. At the same time, however, we must deal with three crises and not allow a fourth. We are in a health, economic, energy and social crisis and we need to be wise and wise not to allow a fourth political if we do not form a sustainable majority and a regular government. The most important and urgent task now is to help people in the difficult winter months, stabilize the economy and deal with the Kovid pandemic. For us the biggest problem is the growth of prices, impoverishment and growing inequalities in Bulgaria. We don't have enough time, honourable Members! Very quickly, we need to take measures to compensate the energy weak families, not to allow electricity prices to be increased for domestic consumers from 1 January, to provide firewood for families who use wood, to help businesses and keep jobs, to return schools, kindergartens, community centers and libraries to the regulated market, to increase incomes and pensions, to stabilize hospitals and medics, to provide medicines and equipment. And for all this, we must have a working economy that provides revenue in the budget and make efforts for the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and operational programmes. We are ready for these sensible solutions with an action program in the first 100 days. She's also financially accounted for. And here comes the serious question in front of all of us: adopting the budget for 2022. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and I address especially the new colleagues: we are in an unprecedented situation, I do not think that there has been another such or at least soon a service cabinet, which has prepared its own budget, which is emerging but still its own majority, which has been presented in another budget, as there are already additional priorities, and the inability to adopt either the first or the second one by the end of the year: neither that of the office nor the possible future majority. We cannot allow everything we have been fighting for for years and the commitments we made to Bulgarian citizens in the election campaign to remain just empty words. Everything we've committed must be dressed in numbers. These numbers express policies and we will make every effort to do so as quickly as possible. We want to do our job to the end. We want to take care of people. They will understand that the state is behind them and no one will be left alone in the crisis. We will make efforts to establish a stable majority and a regular government. In one such majority and here in the parliament, the old colleagues know us, I also turn to the new: you can count on the fact that the BSP for Bulgaria and we are reasonable, we will be the social pillar and the guarantee for stability of Bulgaria. Good luck and good luck! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I give the floor to the representative of the Political Party. There is such a people. Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u12	Dear compatriots in Bulgaria and abroad! Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Your Excellencies, Dear representatives of the judiciary, Dear representatives of the religious communities in the Republic of Bulgaria, Dear Members of the National Assembly! There are three basic principles according to which human life flourishes. The first principle is based on the fact that most people are naturally different and diverse. We must find our way to each other and enjoy the differences and wealth our souls and our intelligence carry. Exactly in this hall, called by Zahari Stoyanov, sacred in which laws are voted with the thought of the future of our homeland, I would like to show a conversation, decent behavior and hard work, appropriate to the high moral and integrity of the people's representative. The second principle that drives the prosperity of human life is curiosity. Over the centuries the educators and Buddhists in our lands have managed in the years to make a worthy place for the Bulgarian nation among the world's education and culture. The need for revival and renewal is more than craved. At the same time, it is good to be aware that they can happen by encouraging enlightenment and knowledge. The combination of knowledge and moral values can reach our desire to minimize corruption and raise new ways, bearing the true freedom of people in Bulgaria. Knowledge management as an approach to government is no longer a new concept. It is mostly a major source of the necessary transformational processes in society and the economy at the entrance and exit, so as to make necessary progress in our quest for harmony between man, nature and innovation. It is important to reach an effective management of knowledge with the thought of balance and balance in the socio-economic life of Bulgaria. Knowledge is a unique resource, it is inexhaustible in terms of consumption. The third principle is related to the development of creative beginnings in each of us. Let us harness all our creativity and creative power and offer society a real and tangible change in relation to high moral criteria and standards, regardless of political coloration. Entrepreneurship spirit is associated with the creative potential of man. It, in turn, leads to innovative solutions, reforms, progress and prosperity of life. There's hardly anything more difficult than changing old ways and reforming at the same time. One of the main reasons for this is that most of the enemies of reforms are those who benefit precisely from these old ways, finding themselves comfortable in the comfort zone. All citizens who want innovation need to be awake 24/7 and protect innovation in our systems, bringing justice, integrity and a decent way of life, because whenever opponents of these reforms are given the opportunity to counteract and attack, they will do it cruelly and bitterly. We need to have one in mind that there are two ways to combat ignorance, lowliness of mind, corruption and small, crafty men riding the state in their pleasure. One by law and the other by force. The first is man's nature, and the second is the animal's. In man's life course, there are many lessons about truth. When we try to ignore it or outsmart it for the things that are happening around us, there always comes a day when we pay an expensive and painful price. I think the time has come when people with decent behavior, integrity, knowledge, skills and experience need to join forces and roll their sleeves in solving the life-giving, pressing problems of everyday life, ignoring and tantalizing their egos. We need to stop making excuses, and we need to act. Making things happen even if it's small at the very beginning, let it happen! We need to stop putting our pride ahead of progress. At this moment, many expect us to be renewed and a clear sign of a lesson from the current crisis. New generations need motivation and environment to develop their knowledge and experience in the country, not to take over the world. Entrepreneurs need predictability, security and protection of creative and innovative ideas to do business in Bulgaria. People of education and science to develop knowledge and give flight to their scientific achievements. Arts have no barriers to inspired and accomplished talent. Elderly people crave our respect for their dignified hardships and await our daily care. It is vital that the laws to be adopted in this House lay down rules on the effective use of natural resources in the direction of guaranteed environmental and climate protection. For this purpose, it is fundamental to study the processes of renewable and distributive use of resources and to achieve maximum benefit from the potential of the workforce. In order to protect it, it is necessary to change labour law in order to ensure a greater scope of collective action with guarantees of transparency, rapid and accurate enforcement. The Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" will do everything possible to build a government, to work for the entire term of office. We will strive to follow the three principles for the prosperity of human life and the people of Bulgaria to be calm. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me finally wish you health, chastity, integrity and dedication in reforms for a fairer and more dignified life for the Bulgarians. And as Professor Nikolai Genchev said, "There is nothing more important than humanity." Good luck and a good wind! [[Applause from IHN, "We are continuing the Change", DB, "BSP for Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u13	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky! I give the floor to the representative of the Coalition "Democratic Bulgaria" Mr. Hristo Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear compatriots, dear colleagues, Dear Mr. President, Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, Vice President, Dear representatives of the judiciary, other state institutions, Dear representatives of the religious communities, Dear Mr. President Plevneliev, Dear guests from the Diplomatic Corps! Many things have been said about the challenges we face for crises, for difficulties. I'd like to say a few words about hope. Because it seems to me that at the end of this year, filled with so many turbulences, crises, challenges, twists, we come to a point where we can actually afford to talk about hope. It seems to me that now that the year is over, when the season is coming when people are hoping for a new beginning, the return of light, the hope, it will be a good start for our joint work here. In addition to the many difficulties Bulgaria has a huge reason for hope for what is our country because of what our people are, but also because of the changes that are happening, because of the opportunities that are open to us from technological transformations, because we are in a difficult combination between health and economic crisis and challenges, but beyond them, the restoration of new roads through new models actually allows Bulgaria with the necessary ambition and vision to reduce strongly that path that has always separated us from the most developed societies. Yes, that is possible today, and yes, we must set precisely that goal in order to make a leap in our development. This is particularly appropriate for us in view of the results of the elections. They say people are as big as their hopes, and because we are smaller, we will lean on what we hope for, what our causes are. Allow me to say a few words about our priorities. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the principles we are going to lean on, trying to make a maximum contribution to drawing up a democratic majority that can open the door to this hope that we are talking about and open a new page in Bulgaria. By the way, I would like to say that I have also heard many good things from the political forces, which have been expressed as a future opposition. I will say that this gives me once again hope that in this Parliament we will be able to do more work. But what we believe in, and what we will stick to, is the belief that all power must be aware of its limitations, and whenever power is exercised and authority is given, it must be remembered: power must be limited. The faith in the parliamentary republic is this heritage of Bulgarian democracy, since the transition so far, which we have to protect, and the Democratic Bulgaria will work for it with all forces. Faith in the fiscal mind and restraint will be very important in a period of transformation, of inflation, of an attempt to jump forward and someone will have to remember that. Before we ask for it from one or another public domain or industry, it's nice to hear it. It is nice to talk to them and look for a way together to open more jobs, especially those who have high value and who can be a reason for more young people to return to Bulgaria, to stay and invest in their lives here. We believe in institutions, we believe in procedures, we believe in memory! We believe in values and our ideology, which we will not forget, that it starts from the denial of the totalitarian regime. There is no way to talk about democracy, about building a full democracy without remembering what is the opposite of it, without remembering everything that we have to fight against, because it always raises its head and is easily brought back. Our specific priorities that I would like to address. Did you know that I am impressed that we are at a very special moment? We, who were recently outside the institutions, outside the parliament, were on the streets, protested, we know how important it is to make judicial reform, but also those who were in parliament until now were in power, directly or indirectly, I hear them turning more and more to the subject of justice and how important it is to comply with the law. I am hearing complaints of repression in the context of the election period and I am paying attention to these claims. Perhaps this means that we are all ready to ultimately make this judicial reform. This may mean that we are ready not only to remove one person or another. This should happen, but to make all those systematic changes in Bulgarian justice, the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, which will modernize it, which will allow everyone to be sure that there is not just a law on paper in Bulgaria, but there is a justice that every Bulgarian citizen, whether from some majority, from some political group or other, can rest and be calm and secure, anyone who starts some enterprise can be sure of their property. I think there's hope that this time we'll be able to do this. That's what our citizens tell us, our partners from Europe tell us all the time. We need to make constitutional reform, especially with regard to the prosecution and the Supreme Judicial Council, we all know that. The introduction of electronic control will be another huge priority for us and this is not just the introduction of computers. This is an ambitious transformation of the way the state administration works, which can and should lead to a huge reduction of the administrative burden for citizens, entrepreneurs and all legal entities in Bulgaria. This is possible and we can do it for a very short time, and "Democratic Bulgaria "......................................... will have, I hope, a huge contribution in this regard. We will have a contribution who, if not us? In the introduction of the conservation of Bulgarian natural heritage, of Bulgarian natural wealth in the center of the agenda of Bulgarian politics, in a way that has never happened before, as a basis for economic transformation, as a basis for achieving a high quality of life in Bulgaria and we will be happy to do so. We will work and continue to work, as so far, for Bulgarians abroad, for their rights and opportunities to feel equal citizens of Bulgaria, regardless of where they are. This is what we call the big Bulgaria. This is our political goal to make every law, every norm, every institution such as to think about being turned to the fact that two million Bulgarian citizens live outside Bulgaria, that they want to be part of us, to be one. They will continue to live outside Bulgaria, people will travel, return, choose other roads. We have to make this possible. We will defend our geopolitical orientation with regard to the European Union and NATO. We will protect it both in terms of values and in terms of specific policies, such as the great effort for the euro area, such as the reform of the entire sector, which must happen, because without this we cannot be a partner that can be trusted. We will support the serious and ambitious programme with regard to the management of the medical and economic consequences of the Kovid pandemic in Bulgaria. It's high time we did it, and the first thing we need to do is get the kids back to school. This is extremely important. We will support the ambitious actions of a future governance in finding a solution to the differences that we have with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Yes, we need to protect the Bulgarian national interest, yes, we need to protect the Bulgarian truth about history, but we need to find a way to solve this problem together, not to divide ourselves even more and become members of a common European family, from a common European home. Now this is a really brave step that we are going to support. And something for which we will not get tired of working investments in the organization of Bulgarian science, Bulgarian education and Bulgarian culture. Did you know that the easiest way to change how we think about Bulgaria, how people abroad think about Bulgaria is Bulgarian culture? Rebrand the country, give new self-esteem to how we perceive ourselves, and this is Bulgarian culture. Let's invest in it adequately and seriously! The hope, I started with it, we swore and swore to serve and serve precisely the hope of the people who voted for us, the people who didn't vote for us, the people who voted against us. I hope, standing here before you, that all of us together, and the new colleagues, and those who have been a little longer in Parliament, will be able to meet this high challenge. We will make our contribution to the formation and broadcasting of a government, and exactly how we will do it will depend on the negotiations. What I can say is that, among other things, besides insisting on our priorities, the programmes we have are good if we can remember that we can help by taking a step aside, if not backwards. And here I am saying that I will not be a minister. I think it's okay, speaking of hope, speaking of change, for all of us to realize that it's okay to give way to something new. And I would like to say lastly that I wish you success because I have to tell you that Bulgaria is the name of hope. Wherever we are, whoever we are, whatever we do, if we are Bulgarian citizens, that is the other name of the hope of having a prosperous country to be proud of, the hope of leaving something better to our children, the hope of being part of a community that makes sense to give, to be more of yourself and that can help you support you. For the sake of this hope, I would like to wish you well today: good luck! [[Applause from DB, ICN, "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I give the floor to the representative of the Political Party Resurrection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u16	Dear compatriots! I only address my compatriots, because everyone in this Chamber, regardless of our temporarily given power, positions and positions, must be above all one "Bulgarian." As of today, the last period in which Bulgaria can be pushed away from the bottom begins. We who are here are obliged before our people to bring our country, which has always survived so far, although the so-called political class has managed to bring it to a humiliating position in which our country, crucified among the great powers, simply cannot take its breath. Today, our people deserve new, determined and honest leaders and it is high time for Bulgarian politics to be guided by decent men, because I do not want to recall the words of the great Bulgarian poet Radoy Ralyn, who said: "It was time Turkish. Bulgaria does not need cowardly and treacherous rulers! Bulgaria needs people who protect the Bulgarian national interest! When we created our organization, without hesitation, I decided to call it an aging, because in this word everything our people and our land need, people and land, which many of you in this hall and even more beyond it, puppet masters of a long-standing national betrayal, sell for pennies, a land where people die more and are born less and more fertile land with imported food, imported values, vulgar and cynical disguised as inevitable modernity. But Bulgaria has an immune system, Bulgaria has its fearless sons and daughters - people with memory, people who want a decent future, people determined to fight for it, people who do not want to send their children to the airport terminals. I searched and found such people unconventional, and I led them so that today I could be here with 12 of them, but with us out there there are hundreds of thousands more. We will become more and more, because the thirteen of the AGEs do not represent only 13 electoral regions in Bulgaria. We are also Bulgarians from Kardzhaliysko, Targovishtko, Shumensko, Razgradsko and all the other beautiful Bulgarian areas, which were left alone for decades at the mercy of the political bashibozuk of the DPS. We are the Bulgarians from America who fled with tears in their eyes and empty pockets and condemned their children to an immigrant fate. We are the Bulgarians from Australia who drive for hours every Sunday to take their children to a Bulgarian school. We are the Bulgarians from Western Europe who take care of other sick mothers while their parents die here alone. We are the Bulgarians who clean other people's homes while their homes are empty here. We are the Bulgarians who do not want to take care of foreign gardens until weeds grow in their courtyards. We are Bulgarians who work tirelessly, who win awards and achieve peaks in their fields and are proud to be born here. We are the Bulgarians whose parents are forced to look at their grandchildren through the computer screens. We are the children of the pensioners who are barely peeping from the poverty threshold of a cynical, hollow term from the artistic statistics. We are separated from cheap flights and cheap labor senders at the airport. We are the parents of the children who are forced into their homes for a third school year, and of those children for whom there are no kindergartens, because their parents are forced to move into the breathtaking capital, not finding work and livelihood in their hometowns. We are the Bulgarians from Macedonia, whom some of you are ready to give up, as everyone before you. We are the Bulgarians from the Western Outskirts who always forget, but they themselves never forgot their root. We are the Bulgarians from Edirne Thrace, North Dobrudja, Belomore Thrace, Belomore Macedonia, Mala Prespa, Korcanski, Golo Bardo, Gora, Pomoravitvo We are the descendants of the Bulgarian refugees in Banat, Transylvania, Vlasko, Moldova, Besarabia, Crimea and the Principe. We are the ones who have been robbed, despised and ruled for 32 years without anyone asking them. We're the ones who are already saying, "Stop it! It is time for us to be asked! Many of you who are standing here right now, in this room, owe their chairs to fear. So much so that the fear in this hall can literally be felt, as many of you owe their comfortable chairs and luxury cars to fear, which says: "I don't want to lose my job in the administration! " - I don't want to lose my livelihood! The worst of all, however, is that people who take an oath to be guided in every action by the interests of the people are, for the most part, completely deprived of shame and conscience. But you can't lie, steal and blackmail forever. We cannot go between the drops of history forever, because we all Bulgarians are tired of being insulted, robbed and humiliated. The Bulgarians who supported the birth, the people who will become more and more, are not afraid. Pressed against the wall man has two choices to obey and make peace or stand up against. We the Revivals stood up, and now we're here. We are here to say that we do not want Bulgaria to be a vassal territory devoid of its own policy, opinion and solutions. We are here to fight the demographic catastrophe and to start demographic regeneration and restoration of Bulgaria. We are here to say that we will not tolerate restrictions, masks, discrimination, forced or compulsory vaccination with experimental substances and we will request their removal as soon as possible, certification of civil rights revoked. Thus, we, at the age of old, see the branding of people against their personal choice, supposedly for their own health and security, and will fight against this modern fascism by all means. We are also here to say: We are here to protect the Bulgarian national interest in the second Bulgarian state in Europe. We are here to prevent any form of the Istanbul Convention in Bulgaria, as well as to free our country from foreign military bases such as there have never been in our homeland before in our history, even when Bulgaria has been occupied twice since the First and Second World War. Because of all of this, I know that many people will not forgive courage and determination, as well as our fight for independence, because many of you here have dedicated their lives to being organizers of their own dependence, of their own violence, of their own foreign worship and cultural genetic engineering, of ridiculing our identity, history, traditions and culture. Because for many here it is shameful to be Bulgarians and they prefer to serve the staff of foreign interests, abdicating from the management of their own. As a historian, however, I will tell you this: history never remains indebted to anyone. For traitors of the motherland, the end is always disgraceful, and then forgotten. As one of the millions of Bulgarian men, I say that I will not give up an inch back in the battle for the Bulgarian national interests, because I want my children and grandchildren to stay in Bulgaria and be proud of me and what I will leave behind with my followers. Bulgaria deserves good governance, responsible governance, conscientious governance. We Bulgarians deserve quality education, health care, quality and efficient social policies. The Bulgarians deserve a fair wage for their work. It's time for the robbery of our future to stop. I don't want to see any more destruction, but a revival, and anyone who thinks like me is welcome. No Bulgarian is redundant in times of crisis, decline and humiliation, a situation to which our people were brought by long-standing, targeted, conscious traitorous acts and criminal omissions. In conclusion, I will remind you of the words of the immortal Bulgarian poet Geo Milev from his poem "Septemvri" "Once upon a time he studied in schools, but no longer because the school has become fashionable and because the Bulgarian is not fashionable in our school, these immortal words will remind them now here: "Voice of the people: ♪ Voice of the Lord ♪ With thousands of knives. probodene people........................................................... dulled humiliated less than a beggar, left-over without a brain no nerves Rebellion ♪ Out of the darkness ♪ ♪ Worried ♪ of your life And he wrote with his own blood: FREE! It is time for Bulgaria to become a free and independent state again. It's time to start writing our own story again. It's time for a revival. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Colleagues, we are moving on to the business part of the meeting where we have to elect the President of Parliament. Who will present the Draft Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The draft decision is as follows: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure for the election of the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly as follows: 1. Candidates for President of the National Assembly may be offered by the parties and coalitions represented in the National Assembly registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the elections on 14 November 2021 and by MPs. 2. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system unless the National Assembly decides otherwise and alphabetically of the proposed nominations. 3. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs has been elected. If, in the first vote, none of the candidates receives the necessary majority, a second vote shall be cast in which the two candidates who have received the most votes. The candidate who received more votes has been selected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u19	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Here you go. Anyone? I won't. The debates are closed. I shall put to the vote the draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly on the grounds of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Vote 231 MPs: for 231, against and abstention there is no. The decision's been made. We proceed to the choice according to the rules adopted. I give the floor for proposals for the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u20	Hello again! [[Laughter at GERB.]] Before you continue to grin on the right, I will tell you something much more important that we all need to hear. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change and we propose that Nikola Georgiev Minchev be elected President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Nikola Minchev graduated law at Sofia University. He has a long experience as a lawyer who specializes in legal representation at the law firm. He is internationally recognized by all colleagues in the lawyer's office. Over the years, Nikola has proved to be an excellent professional, irreconcilable cause fighter with an active civic position. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I believe that with these qualities, as well as his good education, integrity and perseverance, he will contribute much to the forty-seventh National Assembly. It will serve as the best cause for Bulgaria's success! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u21	Thank you, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u22	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u23	Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Ministers! It is a practice so far in all the founding days of the National Assembly, after we have received a proposal for a President of the National Assembly, to give a break so that the parliamentary groups can discuss the proposed proposal, make an adequate decision or make other proposals. So from our group, to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I ask you for a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u25	There will be other proposals. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u26	I want a break before we hear them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u27	Thank you. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u28	Colleagues, we're continuing the nominations. A nomination was presented. Are there any other suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, honor and honor! Ladies and gentlemen, a parliamentary group of MPs elected by the Political Party was formed, and on its behalf I am proposing a nomination for President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly of the National Representative Tsoncho Tomov Ganev. Tsoncho Tomov Ganev graduated from the Business Academy in Svishtov. He is a private businessman, a longtime manager in a large international company, a man with an irreconcilable position, a man with a public position, a man who has always stood equal to us for defending Bulgaria, and a man who I think will be able to represent the institution of parliamentaryism within the forty-seventh National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Any other nominations? I won't. We're calling off the nominations. I open the debate on the proposals made. You have the floor. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Two applications have been made by Mr. Nikola Georgiev Minchev and Mr. Tsoncho Tomov Ganev. In accordance with the rules adopted, in alphabetical order of the first names, we shall proceed to the vote. I put to the vote first Mr. Nikola Georgiev Minchev's candidacy. Vote 231 MPs: 158 against 1, abstention 72. I put to the vote Mr. Tsoncho Tomov Ganev's candidacy. Vote 192 MPs: 13 against 91, abstention 88. According to the results of the vote for President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly was elected Mr. Nikola Georgiev Minchev. Congratulations! [[(Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u31	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members of the Constitutional Court, Your Excellencies, honourable representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the judiciary and the Bar Association, Dear Mrs. Ombudsman, honourable representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, distinguished guests, dear compatriots! Today we begin the parliamentary life of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. We are in a favourable position of people who have recently received the trust of Bulgarian citizens, but this favourable situation is about to end and the more difficult task begins to be justified. The Bulgarian Parliament is not just a place where the laws are made, but the supreme institution, which, with its activities, ensures the functioning of all spheres of public life, from ensuring the rights and freedoms of citizens to leading the Bulgarian society to a well-deserved place in Europe. Parliament reflects attitudes in society. By choosing seven whole formations to be parliamentary represented, the voter gave us a clear sign that he expects teamwork from us, not authoritarian solutions. We must respect his will. As in every Parliament and here there will be different views, but let us meet the differences with respect, let the common will be born within the framework of the quality and reasonable discussion in Parliament, let us work on this in the forty-seventh Bulgarian Parliament within a full four-year term to restore the spirit of mutual understanding and impose a new model of policy making. Accept my great appreciation for the honour of being President of the Bulgarian National Assembly. At such an important moment for our country this honor is especially great. I will work, and I believe that we will all work together to ensure that the Bulgarian Parliament is a place for free and constructive debates and discussions in which we create these laws to speed up the development of our country and make it a full member of the European Union. This is the only way to make the change we all dream of living in a better Bulgaria. Thank you. [[(Extreme applause from.. We continue the Change..........................)......................................................................... Interim President Silvi Kirilov congratulates President Nikola Minchev and gives up the chair.)]] Honourable Members, let us proceed with the agenda and proceed to the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, and first of all to adopt rules of procedure for this choice to take place. A draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure by a group of Members of the National Assembly has been deposited. I'd like someone to present the proposed project. Mrs. Borislavova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u32	The draft decision on the adoption of the Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly states: Project! DECISION on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly as follows: 1. The National Assembly elects seven Vice-Presidents on one of each of the parties represented in the National Assembly and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the elections on 14 November 2021. 2. Each party and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for Independent Participation in the Elections on 14 November 2021 shall propose its candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly. 3. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system unless the National Assembly decides otherwise and in full for all candidates. 4. The proposed candidates for Vice-Presidents were elected when they received more than half of the votes from the present Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u33	I'm opening discussions on the proposed project. We are closing discussions on the proposed project. Let's move on to the draft vote. They voted 237 MPs: for 237, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Under the rules of procedure adopted, any party or coalition registered in the CEC for autonomous participation shall have the right to propose a Vice-President. Let's start with the size of the parliamentary group. On behalf of Mr. Petkov, I give the floor to Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u34	Dear Members of Parliament, the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of "We are continuing the Change" for Vice-President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly is Miroslav Nikolaev Ivanov. Miroslav was born and raised in Yambol, where he graduated from the Professional School of Economics and then graduated from Sofia University with a degree in Law. Miroslav is fully committed to his profession as a lawyer, whose cause is the construction of a new modern Bulgaria. I believe that Miroslav's professional and personal qualities will contribute to the spirit of discussion, understanding and positive activity in the forty-seventh National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u35	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, on behalf of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u36	Congratulations, Mr. Chairman. Good luck! On behalf of Coalition and parliamentary group GERB-SDS we propose Mrs. Rositsa Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u37	Here you are on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u38	Hello again. [[Radio, laughter.]] Dear Mr. Chairman, please accept our congratulations! You are tasked with the huge expectations of the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian voters and the MPs of the Forty-Seventh People's Representation to be one truly first among the equal, strictly following the Rules, which we will shortly accept as a temporary one, to treat with equal respect to all parliamentary groups, because this House has seen presidents who have sympathised with one or another group from which they have been broadcast for example. But I'm done with the lyric. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Vice-President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, we propose Mrs Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant. Mrs. Mukaddes Nalbant graduated from Sofia University with a degree in Philosophy, has a PhD in Philosophy and has a PhD in Philosophy with the right to protection, has held the post of Director of Directorate at the Ministry of Education and Science, Deputy Minister of Education and Science in two Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, Vice-President of the 45th and 46th National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. On behalf of BSP, come in, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let us also, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, congratulate you on your choice and wish you success in the mission, which you were given a few minutes ago by the MPs in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, namely to be its leader and first among equals, of course. Good luck. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we are proposing as Vice-President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly Kristian Ivanov Vigenin. Christian Vigenin was born on 12 June 1975 in Sofia. He graduated from the University of National and World Economy. Member of the National Assembly. In the 44th National Assembly is President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. In the 44th, 45th and 46th National Assembly is Vice-President of the National Assembly. Previously, Christian was a Member of the European Parliament, 2007 "2013," and Minister of Foreign Affairs " 2013 "2014." He was Vice President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. A married man with two sons. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u41	Thank you. On behalf of Mrs. Vasileva, there is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me also wish you good luck and courage and very healthy nerves! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people" we propose for Vice-President Mrs. Iva Miteva. Iva Miteva graduated from the University of Sofia. Kliment Ohridski. He is passing a course for parliamentary legal advisers in Madrid, Spain, and a course in European integration. Doctor of Constitutional Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, Chairman of the 45th and 46th National Assembly. His professional internship began as a legal counsel at the Ministry of Justice. Since 2000, he has served as a State Expert at the Directorate of the National Assembly and has been going through various positions to the Director of the Directorate of Employment and Law of the European Union. He is a member of the expert teams for amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2003, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2015. Since 2007 he has actively participated in the drafting of electoral legislation. Honored lecturer at New Bulgarian University, Department of Law, course "Political Normality." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u43	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, come on in on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, let me first congratulate you with the choice and with the heavy responsibility. Your success will be success for the entire National Assembly, so I sincerely wish it to you! Our parliamentary group traditionally proposes as Vice-President of the National Assembly Atanas Atanasov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u45	Thank you. And on behalf of rebirth, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Political Party of Resurrection is proposing as Vice President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly the national representative Tsoncho Tomov Ganev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u47	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I am opening debates on the proposed applications. I am calling off the debate on the proposed applications. Let's move on to voting mode. In accordance with the rules adopted, the candidates shall be voted in full. Vote 239 MPs: for 239, against and abstention there is no. I ask the elected Vice-Presidents to take their seats with the Chair, please. Honourable Members, we are continuing on the agenda. A draft decision on the implementation of the existing Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly until the adoption of a new one has been deposited. Please have someone present the deposited proposal. Here you are, Mrs. Borislavova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u48	The deposited draft decision on the implementation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly reads: "Project! DECISION implementing the draft decision on the implementation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The forty-seventh National Assembly shall carry out its work under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly until the adoption of its Rules, unless it decides otherwise. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u49	Thank you. I'm opening the debate on the deposited project. I'm calling off the debate. We move on to a vote on the motion made. Vote 233 MPs: for 233, against and abstention there is no. The decision is accepted. We're moving on. A draft decision for the election of secretaries at the Forty-Seventh National Assembly was deposited. I ask one of the importers to submit the deposited project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u50	Project! DECISION for the election of Secretaries of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria: HAS DECIDED 1. He elected 14 secretaries of the National Assembly by two of each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for independent participation in the elections on 14 November 2021. 2. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system unless the National Assembly decides otherwise and in full for all candidates. 3. He selects secretaries at the forty-seventh National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Borislavova. I'm opening discussions on the proposed project. There aren't any. I'm calling off the discussion. I give the floor for proposals for nominations for parliamentary secretaries again in the size of the parliamentary groups. We're continuing on behalf of the change? Excuse me. I put to the vote the draft decision to elect secretaries. Vote 226 MPs: for 226, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Now I'm giving the floor for nominations. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u52	On behalf of the parliamentary group we continue the Change we would like to nominate the MPs Julia Borisova Ivanova and Yuri Olegov Kozlov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u53	On behalf of GERB-SDS, come in, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group GERB-SDS we propose Mr. Ilter Bayzatov and Mr. Stefan Shilev as Secretaries of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u55	From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament, we offer the MPs Pavlin Krastev and Sezgin Mehmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u57	Thank you. On behalf of the BSP?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria I propose the MPs Philip Popov and Vyara Emilova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u59	And thank you. There is such a people, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "Imam such a people" we offer Alexander Velislavov Todorov and Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u61	Thank you. On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we offer Zornitsa Stratieva and Petar Marinov as Secretaries of the National Assembly. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u63	Thank you. On behalf of rebirth?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection, I propose as Secretaries of the National Assembly Iskra Mihaylova and Stoyan Taslakov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-03.u65	Thank you, colleagues, for your nominations. I'm opening the debate on the nominations. There aren't any. Abort. Moving on to voting mode. Vote 228 MPs: 228, no opposition and no abstentions. I now pronounce the nominations accepted. Next, we move on to the announcement of the registered parliamentary groups. A notification from Coalition BSP to Bulgaria was received, informing us that a parliamentary group named BSP was formed for Bulgaria. The leadership of the parliamentary group is in the following composition: Cornelia Petrova Ninova, Chairman of the group; Vice-Presidents Atanas Zafirov Zafirov, Dragomir Velkov Stoynev, Georgi Strailov Svilenski, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Hristo Stanchev Prodanov; Secretarys of the group There is such a people, which informs us of the formation of a parliamentary group named "There is such a people." The leadership of the parliamentary group is in the following composition: Chairman of the group - Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov; Vice-President - Viktoria Dimitrova Vasileva; Secretary of the group Ivo Georgiev Atanasov. A notification has been received from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The name of the group is a movement for rights and freedoms. The leadership of the parliamentary group is in the following composition: President "Mustafa Sali Karadaiy; Vice-Presidents "Yordan Kirilov Tsonev, Halil Rexepov Letifov and Hamid Bari Hamid; Secretary of the parliamentary group " Adlen Shukri Shevket. A notification has been received from "We are continuing the Change." The name of the parliamentary group is "We are continuing the Change." The leadership of the group is in the following composition: Chairman of the group Atanasov Gyurov; Vice Presidents Yana Veselinova Balnikova and Kaloyan Tomov Ikonomov; Secretary of the group Snezhana Velikova Apostolova. A notification has been received from "Democratic Bulgaria". The name of the group is "Democratic Bulgaria." The leadership of the group is composed: Chairman Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov; three vice-presidents Atanas Vladislavov Slavov, Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov and Vladislav Panchev Panev. A notification was received from GERB-SDS. The name of the parliamentary group is GERB-SDS. The Chairman of the group is Desislava Atanasova; Vice-Presidents Alexander Nenkov, Rumen Hristov and Toma Bikov; Secretary A notification was also received from an aging party. The name of the parliamentary group is a parliamentary group of a party. The leadership of the parliamentary group is composed of: Chairman Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov; Vice-President Petar Nikolaev Petrov, Secretary Nikolay Georgiev Petrov. That's why I'm closing today's session. I would only like to announce its next meeting. The day is Wednesday, 8 December 2021, from 9:00 p.m. The agenda will be specified after consulting the Conference of Presidents. And last but not least, let me invite you all to a joint photo, but here in plenary. [[PHONE RINGING]]
