ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode. Colleagues, there is no quorum. Next registration in 15 minutes. Discovered at 9:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u2	Colleagues, please take your seats. Please, registration mode. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, the first point of the day is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR HEALTH DISCLOSURE. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u3	Dear Madam President, before we proceed to the first item of the agenda, I shall make a procedural proposal on the basis of art. 42, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted in plenary to Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, and in this regard a name check before the vote on this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u4	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. I'm starting a roll call: Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- absent Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Горги Александров Александров- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- absent Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova - absent Nona Krasteva Yotova- missing Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Mikhaylov Savov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Rumenov Bozhankov is absent. There's a quorum, moving on. I put to the vote Mrs Daritkova's procedural proposal. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstentioned 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova, to brief us on this extensive report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Health Insurance Act No 154-01-11, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 3 February 2021. At its extraordinary meeting held on 10 February 2021, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill supplementing the Health Insurance Act, No 154-01-11, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 3 February 2021. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov and Mrs. Zheny Nacheva; the President of the Court of Auditors Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov, the Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. Prof. Dr. Petko Salchev; representatives of the Association of Research Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Generical Pharmaceutical Association and the word organizations in the field of health. The draft and the reasons for the bill were presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative is in line with the need to fill the existing legal gap with regard to the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund in the implementation of the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, according to art. 45, para. 31 of the Health Insurance Act and the methodology for its implementation and the establishment of legislation for carrying out effective comprehensive control of that activity. She clarified that according to art. 14, para. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine drug policy is part of the state health policy in the Republic of Bulgaria and is implemented by the Minister of Health. In this regard, it is proposed that the control of the implementation of the mechanism be carried out by the Minister of Health by means of planned and sudden checks to be carried out by a committee appointed by him. Due to the need to implement a multidisciplinary approach to the implementation of the control, the composition of the committee is envisaged to include representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Court of Auditors, the National Revenue Agency and the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products. The Commission's powers in carrying out its control functions shall be described in detail as well as the obligation to prepare a report to the Minister of Health within 14 days of the completion of the appointed inspection. For the purpose of the report, a follow-up assessment of the impact of the implementation of the Predictability and Sustainability Mechanism of the NHIF budget and the methodology for its implementation will also be carried out, as well as an analysis of their compliance with existing legislation on compliance with the rights of patients and of medicinal product business operators. The report is proposed to be published on the website of the Ministry of Health in order to achieve publicity and transparency of the activities of the NHIF on the implementation of the mechanism and the control activities of the Commission. It is envisaged that on the basis of the report drawn up by the Commission, the Minister of Health may make recommendations to the NHIF Supervisory Board to amend and/or supplement the mechanism under art. 45, para. 31 of the health insurance 3acon and the methodology for its application. The bill shall propose, exceptionally in 2021, in the event of a declared emergency or an emergency epidemic situation due to an epidemic spread of contagious disease, that medicinal products derived from human plasma or human blood-related immunoglobulins may be excluded from the scope of the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the NHIF under art. 45, para. 31 of the Health Insurance Act. Dr. Daritkova noted that medicinal products containing immunoglobulins provide the required amount of immunoglobulin molecules circulating in human blood and protect people from the entry of infectious agents. In patients with primary immune deficits and immunoglobulin deficiency, subcutan or intravenous immunoglobulin replacement therapy is life-saving. It guarantees them an increased quality of life, but also minimizes the risk of frequent, persistent, recurrent infections. In the conditions of the epidemic caused by the coronavirus infection SARS-CoV-2, the risk of complications, more severe disease and even fatal outcome in these patients is higher. Those medicinal products are also used in individuals with cancer, haematological, autoimmune and septic diseases. Medicinal products derived from human plasma or from human blood suppliers are included in Annex No 1 and Annex No 2 of the Positive Drug List and reimbursed by the NHIF for home treatment on the territory of the country and in hospital care outside the value of the medical services provided. In order to be paid by public funds, these medicinal products are covered by the mechanism under art. 45, para. 31 of the Health Insurance Act, ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget. According to the mechanism, the holders of authorisations for the use of these medicinal products are obliged to reimburse the NHIF for their excess costs. Given that the prices of medicinal products from human plasma or from human blood.. immunoglobulins are the lowest in Europe, when applying the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget, the prices of these products will fall below the cost of their production. For holders of authorisations for the use of these medicinal products, staying on the Bulgarian market is a trend of non-attractiveness and economic disadvantage. The exclusion of immunoglobulins from the scope of the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget in 2021 for the period of declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemic situation due to the epidemic spread of contagious disease is proposed in order to create prerequisites for meeting the needs of patients of these medicinal products, especially in the complicated situation due to the development of the world pandemic of COVID-19. The proposed addition to the Health Act is necessary because of the need for further development of the contents of the regulation issued by the Minister of Health, which lays down the conditions and procedures for keeping the registers, the information databases and systems included in the National Health Information System, the type of information included, the manner, the conditions and the arrangements for its provision. In this way, it is intended to achieve a comparability of registers, information databases and systems that should be incorporated into the National Health Information System and be kept as part of it at a legislative level for clarity and convenience. The necessary legal basis is also established for the future inclusion of specific databases as part of the National Health Information System when necessary, given the dynamics in public relations in the field of health, the ongoing process of the establishment of the National Health Information System and its forthcoming upgrade. The opinion of the Ministry of Health was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, expressing principle support for the proposed regulatory changes. On the proposal to introduce special rules for control of the implementation of the mechanism for predictability and sustainability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for Medicinal Products, the Ministry of Health generally supports all effective forms of control over public expenditure, such as the NHIF's budget for medicinal products. The existence of clear legal mechanisms in this direction creates prerequisites for transparency of the spending of the funds of the NHIF. At the same time, it is particularly important that legislation introduces justified and motivated control mechanisms without allowing duplication or ambiguity of the relevant functions of the control bodies. The mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF's budget for medicinal products is a legal measure governed by the Health Insurance Act in order to avoid an increase in the costs of medicinal products outside the legally established budget estimates for medicinal products for the corresponding budgetary year. In the current legislation, the control of the implementation of the budget of the NHIF, part of which is also the cost of the medicinal products included in the mechanism, is entrusted to the Court of Auditors, the Supervisory Board of the NHIF and the Agency for State Financial Inspection. In this regard, it is pointed out that the proposed texts create rather a duplication of control by another body, namely by the Minister of Health. In this regard, further consideration should be given to the appropriateness of the proposed approach, since the presence of clearly defined control bodies and their control functions is of particular importance in creating confidence in the effectiveness of their work. Duplication of powers creates ambiguities and difficulties in the proper implementation of the regulations, increases the risk of possible contradictions between the individual control bodies, delay of checks, transfer of responsibilities. In view of the above considerations, concern is expressed on the effectiveness of the proposed bill in this part. Fundamental support shall be expressed for the proposal to exclude from the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget, of medicinal products of human blood or of human plasma, for the period of declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemiological situation. In view of the global difficulties caused by the COVID-19 pandemic in the collection of blood plasma and its increased consumption, leading to an increase in production costs for blood plasma medicinal products, the exclusion of them in 2021 from the mechanism will allow, on the one hand, to ensure the access of patients in need to life-support therapy and, on the other hand, to analyse the processes associated with measures to avoid an increase in the cost of medicinal products paid by the NHIF outside the legally defined budget, where necessary, could be optimised. In view of the dynamics in public relations in the field of health, the continuous process of building the National Health Information System and its forthcoming upgrade supports the proposal to supplement the Health Act, which creates a legal basis for future inclusion of specific databases as part of the National Health Information System when necessary. Professor Petko Salchev informed the MPs that the National Health Insurance Fund does not support the Bill in its part under § 1 and 2. With regard to the proposal to create art. 70a in the Health Insurance Act it was clarified that under the provisions in force of the Health Insurance Act, the Law on the Court of Auditors and the Law on Administration, the activities of the NHIF on the expenditure of public funds are subject to control by the control bodies established by special laws. Those bodies shall exercise control over the lawful, efficient, efficient and economical management of public funds and of compliance with the regulations governing budgetary, financial and accounting activities. The implementation of the mechanism under art. 45, para. 31 of the Health Insurance Act is part of the activities of the NHIF in the management and spending of public funds for medicinal products paid in full or in part by the NHIF and therefore, on general grounds, this activity is subject to control by the Court of Auditors and the Agency for State Financial Inspection. In parallel, the legislation also establishes internal institutional control in the face of the Supervisory Board and the NHIF Inspectorate, which applies within the NHIF institution and covers the implementation of the mechanism. He clarified that, in current legislation, the legislator has ensured the existence and functioning of control mechanisms on the activities of the NHIF, including on the activity of implementing the mechanism, and all statutory control options prove in an indisputable way that there is no legislative gap in this respect, such as the purpose of the Bill referred to in its reasoning, to establish art. 70a out of 3a for health insurance. In this regard, the NHIF considers the proposal of importers to establish a special order for control of the application of the mechanism of unlawful legal treatment due to duplication of functions of other authorities. According to Professor Salchev, the award of control function for the implementation of the mechanism of the Minister of Health on the grounds that he implements drug policy in the country according to art. 14, para. 1 of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine is incorrect because the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget is a financial instrument for compliance with budgetary discipline. In the event that the legislator, despite the arguments put forward, decides that a special order should be established to control its application, that function must be entrusted to a financial body. It also objects to the proposed composition of the committee, which will exercise control over the implementation of the mechanism. The opinion notes that, in the two years " 2019 and 2020', the application of the mechanism to the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund has not been given any signal by organisations to holders of authorisations for the use of medicinal products, nor by individual holders or their authorised representatives, of unlawful and/or incorrect application of the mechanism, nor of any violation of their economic rights. The National Health Insurance Fund lacks information on such signals being sent to other bodies and institutions, including the National Assembly. The proposed exemption in 2021 in the event of a declared emergency or an exceptional epidemiological situation does not apply to medicinal products derived from human plasma or from human blood -- immunoglobulins included in Annex 1 and Annex 2 to the Positive Drug List and paid by means of the National Health Insurance Fund budget. According to the institution, the proposal is unfounded and would create ambiguities, disputes and problems in implementing the mechanism for other medicinal products. On the other hand, the temporary exclusion of plasma immunoglobulins from the scope of the mechanism brings the potential for unfair increases in the financial burden of its application to other marketing authorisation holders in the relevant main groups of medicinal products. Professor Salchev stressed that the National Health Insurance Fund does not generally support a legislative approach to excluding some or other groups of medicinal products paid by the National Health Insurance Fund from the scope of the mechanism. Such an approach would violate the philosophy and principles of the mechanism itself, namely the sharing of the risk of spending the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund between all holders of authorisations and their proportionate participation in the reimbursement of excess funds according to the costs of NHIF for their own medicinal products. The purpose of introducing the mechanism into the Health Insurance Act as a financial measure is also compromised in order to respect budgetary discipline and fiscal stability. The President of the Court of Auditors expressed concern regarding the proposals with art. 70a, para. 2 composition of the committee to control the implementation of the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund under art. 45, para. 31 of the Health Insurance Act. It clarified that the representatives of the Court of Auditors could not participate in the committee envisaged as the institution is an external audit body for the budget and other public funds and activities. It was pointed out that the participation of representatives of the Court of Auditors in inter-departmental committees of the executive which exercise control would be contrary to the principle of separation of powers. In conclusion, Mr. Tsvetkov pointed out that the Court of Auditors could control the implementation of the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund within the framework of the annual audit of the annual report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. The written opinion of the Ministry of Finance notes that the award of control functions to the Minister of Health for the implementation of the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the establishment of an interdepartmental commission appointed by him to assist him in the performance of that function is contrary to the designated functions of the Supervisory Board, namely art. 15, para. 1, t. 5 of the Health Insurance Act, as it is entrusted to it to exercise control over the operational activities of the National Health Insurance Fund. The management bodies of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be the Supervisory Board and its manager, which shall also be a senior authorising officer with a budget. A prime minister should not control an autonomous budget on which the legislator clearly defined the management bodies. The conditions and procedures for carrying out internal and external audits and inspections shall be the same as those laid down for all other senior authorising officers with a budget. Attention is paid to the fact that the National Revenue Agency is a specialised public body which carries out its activities on the basis of an explicit legal delegation. The functions and powers of the National Revenue Agency are defined in art. 3 of the Act on the National Revenue Agency and are related to the procedures for establishing the obligations for taxes and compulsory social security contributions, as well as the freezing and recovery of public claims entrusted to the revenue and public contractors. In relation to the arguments put forward, the proposed composition of the committee referred to in art. 70a, para. 2 of the Draft Supplement to the Health Insurance Act, representatives of the National Revenue Agency should be included, as that activity of the Commission is not related to the competences of the National Revenue Agency and does not correspond to the status of the Agency for the establishment, freezing and recovery of public claims and defined by law private public claims. In conclusion, it is pointed out that with Instruction No 4 of 6 November 2013 according to the description of the Central Management of the National Revenue Agency for Interaction between the National Revenue Agency and the National Health Insurance Fund, the mechanisms for interaction within the competences of the two institutions are described. In relation to this instruction, the National Revenue Agency has repeatedly received letters, requests and signals where the Agency has taken the necessary action, in accordance with its powers laid down in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. The Executive Director of the Association of Research Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria Mr. Deyan Denev expressed support for the introduction of control over the implementation of the mechanism, ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund under art. 45, para. 31 of the Health Insurance Act, by the Minister of Health through an interdepartmental commission. In this way additional guarantees will be established for the protection of the rights of patients and operators in the field of medicinal products paid from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund in the implementation of the mechanism. At the same time, with regard to the proposed exclusion in 2021 from the scope of the mechanism of specific medicinal products, it is noted that the Association has repeatedly stated that the application of the mechanism and the requirement that the producer's prices be no higher than the lowest price for the same medicinal product in a certain number of reference countries and that the requirement of a minimum 10% discount to the National Health Insurance Fund for products which are themselves in a group may result in the formation of an effective delivery price for certain products that is negative, therefore, creates an economic impossibility to provide those medicinal products. The list of medicinal products for which such a development is possible is far from being exhausted with medicinal products derived from human plasma or human blood. Despite the undeniable flaws in the pricing system, discounts and compensations for medicinal products paid by the National Health Insurance Fund, it strongly objects to the proposal that certain medicinal products be excluded from the scope of the mechanism within the current budgetary year. Mr. Denev stressed that the security of the drug supply in Bulgaria largely depends on ensuring legal certainty and predictability, which enables pharmaceutical companies to plan their activities in the country and fulfil their obligations to meet the health needs of Bulgarian citizens. The opinion of the Bulgarian generic pharmaceutical association was presented by Dr. Evgeni Tasovski, expressing support for the establishment of a regulatory opportunity to exercise effective control over the implementation of the mechanism under art. 45, para. 31 of the Health Insurance Act. He stressed that the Association has repeatedly defended the thesis that the mechanism is a controversial, largely non-executive and unfair budgetary instrument related to many ambiguities about its rules and its application, which is not subject to control until now, and does not allow for objections by holders of authorisations for the use of medicinal products. The administrative form of pressure by the National Health Insurance Fund towards manufacturers and suppliers of medicines, as well as the mechanism, is contrary to the principles of the modern rule of law, especially if there is no really effective control and transparency in implementation. It is noted that expenditure estimates for the current mechanism were made on the basis of 2018 data and any changes in consumption of the different groups of medicines due to epidemic causes, the change in incidence from various cancers, infectious, socially significant and other diseases were not taken into account. The estimates of the expenditure on medicines on the budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 and 2021 have been drawn up on a historical basis and do not correspond to the actual costs of the current disease structure, the changed consumption of the different groups of medicines, resulting in an inaccurate calculation of the recovery funds. This practice creates tension in the industry and creates a sense of disproportionate distribution of the burden of expenditure on medicinal products between the National Health Insurance Fund and holders of marketing authorisations. With regard to the composition of the committee, it is noted that it is intended that only representatives of institutions defending the interests of the budget and the interests of the State are to be included in its composition. It is positive that the Commission will be appointed by and subject to an authority outside the National Health Insurance Fund, but this approach is unbalanced and is contrary to the declared objectives of effectiveness and transparency both of the implementation of the mechanism and of the control process itself. In order to achieve better engagement of all stakeholders and to give greater legitimacy to the results of control, it shall be proposed in the Committee on Art. 70a, para. 2 of the Health Insurance Act shall also include at least two representatives of medicinal product producer organisations who shall be entitled to at least an advisory vote in the preparation of the report, in particular in the analysis and assessment of the impact of the mechanism, as well as in the preparation of recommendations and proposals for changes thereto. It is also proposed as external experts to provide for the attraction of professional actuaries, as the presence of such experts will help to carry out accurate calculations for individual medicinal groups and products, which will shed light on the accuracy of the work of the National Health Insurance Fund in relation to the mechanism and in determining the particularly important coefficients used in the methodology for its application. On the other hand, the possibility should be considered within the scope of the control under art. 70a of the Health Insurance Act to add the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for medical devices, fully paid by the National Health Insurance Fund under the conditions of hospital medical care under art. 45, para. 35 of the Health Insurance Act, which will start to apply from 2021 to ensure the comprehensiveness of the controls carried out. As regards the exclusion of certain medicinal products from the mechanism under art. 2 of the Law proposed by § 2 of the Law from the mechanism under art. 45, para. 31 of the Health Insurance Act, Dr. Tasovski, stated that the Bulgarian generic pharmaceutical association repeatedly and especially on the occasion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on medicinal products in human medicine adopted in July 2020, as well as on the occasion of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 and 2021, motivated and insisted on excluding generic and biolike medicinal products from the application of the mechanism, due to the fact that they were included in the Positive Drug List with a reduction of prices by 30% and 20% respectively and formed the lowest reference value in the relevant groups, leading to a total reduction of the costs of the National Health Insurance Fund for medicinal products. This opinion has not yet been taken into account by the management bodies of the National Health Insurance Fund, but the written proposal of Dr. Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs for the exclusion of generic medicines from the mechanism was thwarted by the opinion of the National Health Insurance Fund and the silence of the Ministry of Health when discussing and adopting the above-mentioned Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The Association considers that all the arguments put forward in the reasons for the draft in question in support of the withdrawal of the blood or plasma-produced immunoglobulin mechanism apply in full force and can also be referred to generic medicinal products that are the basis of home and hospital treatment of a number of diseases. Support for the proposed bill is expressed in the written opinions of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists, the Bulgarian Association of Dentalists and the Bulgarian Association for Patient Protection. During the discussion some of the MPs raised specific questions regarding the texts of some of the proposed provisions. It was pointed out that such legal changes should be the subject of a legislative initiative by the Council of Ministers, not by a Member of the National Assembly, and at the end of the term of office of this National Assembly. It has been noted that the bill violates the principle of autonomy of the institutions separated, while the Minister of Health, the Court of Auditors and the National Revenue Agency are entrusted with non-essential functions in the light of their statutory powers. As regards the proposal to exclude a certain group of medicinal products from the mechanism under art. 45, para. 31 of the Health Insurance Act was stressed that the medical reasons are justified, but at the same time the interest of the state and the stability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund must be protected. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Supplement to the Insurance Act, No 154-01-11, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 3 February 2021. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u6	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Please come in for an importer's opinion. I hope you will again receive a round of applause from your opposition colleagues. That was very kind of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u7	I hope for a really good parliamentary tone in today's sitting. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After this comprehensive report, I would really like to rephrase briefly what this legislative initiative has imposed. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u8	Quiet, please! These are the motives of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u9	We were referred to by the Association of Patients with Congenital Immunodeficiency for the possibility of leaving the Positive Drug List of Medicines that guarantee their substitution therapy, namely medicines that are produced from human blood and plasma. This happens: in relation to the increased consumption of blood and plasma products; in relation to the CoVID-19 epidemic; in relation to the increase in prices of these medicinal products in the external market. We in Bulgaria have introduced several mechanisms that guarantee the lowest prices and which ensure predictability and sustainability of the budget for medicinal products within the framework of the funds paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. Our concern as MPs is to guarantee the right to life and health of all Bulgarian citizens. Based on this risk and consulting with the best specialists in the field of immunology, we have decided to allow them to be excluded from the mechanism for predictability and budgetary sustainability the preparations produced from blood and blood plasma within the declared exceptional epidemic environment for 2021. This will really ensure that Bulgarian patients with these diseases have access to life-saving and life-saving medicines. I believe that this basis will be supported by all MPs. Therefore, considering the need, on the one hand, to have the necessary financial discipline and balanced budget for medicinal products, on the other hand, to ensure real access to effective and efficient medicines, we analyzed the adopted additional mechanism in 2020. It was also included in 2019 as an element of a regulation, and in 2020 it became part of the Health Insurance Act, which ensures predictability and sustainability of the budget by monitoring expenditure in three groups of medicines: medicines according to protocol; medicines for home treatment; medicines for the treatment of malignancy. Where there is an increase in each of these groups, holders of the authorisations for use shall return the corresponding percentage of funds to the National Health Insurance Fund's budget. In addition to this mechanism in terms of setting the prices of medicinal products in Bulgaria, there are several other elements that allow us to actually achieve concessions compared to prices that are market and European. In order to enter a medicinal product in Bulgaria, to be referenced, to be present in the positive drug list and to maintain a price, should be referenced with ten main and seven additional countries, according to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, so we really achieve the lowest price. This is constantly done by the National Council of Prices and Reimbursement. On the other hand, to be included in the positive list, the Marketing Authorisation Holder again gives a discount. And another discount follows when the medicinal product is alone in a group and there is no one else to refer to internally. These are the mechanisms that really enable us to have access to high-quality and effective medicines and, at the same time, ensure with the opportunities of the Bulgarian budget this access. The introduction of an additional mechanism does provide guarantees for the implementation of the Cashier's budget in respect of medicinal products, but hides certain risks, and it is in the context of the epidemic that these risks have emerged. That is why we have been searching since last year, on the one hand, in the dialogue with the Ministry of Health, for the control of the mechanism. This mechanism was proposed in talks and exchange of views to be controlled by an external company with appropriate expertise, but this was not realized in the adoption of the Health Insurance Act last year. There were subsequently ideas for the removal from the mechanism of medicinal products that are well established and which are listed. There was an idea that this would concern generic medicinal products, only there were not enough objective criteria for this either. We have therefore made a proposal to enable the mechanism to be controlled in a way that, through an interdisciplinary committee, on the one hand, to take into account the financial parameters, to take into account the financial pressure and the need for financial discipline, on the other hand, to guarantee access to medicinal products, because it is actually more important for us to really ensure the interest of Bulgarian patients, besides the stability of the financial institution, the National Health Insurance Fund. And that is why we have made a proposal that we have understood in the course of the discussions and opinions that we have received that we have met with serious disagreements. We are ready to comply with the opinions expressed, but we do not give up the idea of having an additional mechanism to control the methodology, because we believe that by giving the Supervisory Board the power to adopt a methodology and to control it itself, to some extent we do not allow transparent follow-up to all procedures for the implementation of the budgetary sustainability mechanism of the National Health Insurance Fund. I therefore state here our intention to refine the texts between first and second readings. I believe that there will be no dispute and disagreement among the MPs to ensure the lives and health of patients with congenital immunodeficiencys and who use blood and human plasma preparations. I believe that there will also be no disagreement by the MPs about the further development of the content and the possibility of filling with databases of the National Health Information System, which is the third aspect of our proposed bill at first reading. I really count on support at first reading with the guarantees that we will comply with all opinions and refine the texts between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm really stunned by a few things. I will use the terminology of my colleague Daritkova here was presented a report. We, on the state budget, have not seen such a miracle, as under a bill, which is almost half a page and which makes us one more quote from my colleague Daritkova, in the silent actuaries of an absolute outrage, of creation, I quote again my colleague Daritkova, of a mechanism of the mechanism of control of the Casa. I don't know, in the last few months I've been speechless here after four years of silence, timelessness in health care, a bucket of completely ill-advised bills have spilled. That's another one. This is where the scandal is already heard. The Ministry of Health, the Casata, the Court of Auditors, is against this bill. It became like the new Constitution. Everyone is against it, the whole society is laughing at us, but we say: we do not give up, we want to discuss the matter! What should we discuss in this madness that is being offered? And that is what the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance and the President of the Court of Auditors tells you that it is a violation of the law, that there cannot be such an animal as this bill, in quotes, an animal. And you come out here and 30 minutes you waste the time of the Holy National Assembly repeating, running...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u12	However, be a little more careful, you're talking about the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u13	I'm very careful. The speaker wasn't careful to take 30 minutes. He wasn't careful. And it's not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u14	I didn't break the rules in any way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u15	No, no, look, you may not have broken the Rules, but you have broken our hearts. [[Radio.]] Please, don't let that happen. You're a doctor, a respected parliamentarians. Don't do such things! I'm speechless. I don't want to go into details here about immunoglobulins. Now you think of a very small group of wounded patients. Talking to us about Covid-19! The COVID-19 treatment protocol does not include immunoglobulins at all. Let's not talk about things that don't match the truth. And you said it again Professor Salchev during the meeting. There are other things buried here, there are different manufacturers. You were also told by the drug manufacturers: you are disturbing the balance. And I'll tell you at the end of my speech because I don't want to talk. The coworkers are tired enough. You are betting here a legislative bomb that will debalance the Cashier's budget, and then you will really get out of circulation and from registering medicines that are strategic. I don't want to take up any more of your time, fellow Members! We will by no means support this bill in any way! And there is nothing to look for in the course between first and second readings. It is ridiculous, cannot be offered in this form in the higher body of legislation in Bulgaria and should not be such attempts to implement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u16	Thank you. - What's the line? Mrs. Jaffer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u17	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A record has just been set for the longest report of a committee read by the National Assembly stands at all, and an anti-cord of a proposal that violates three laws that are fundamental in the legislation. The long report we have heard cannot compensate for the legal bankruptcy of the proposed proposal. If that was the goal, you did not achieve that goal. I regret that I have to say this: we will be strongly opposed to the proposals made! And here the subject of interferons is not the most important topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u18	Which interferons? For immunoglobulins.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u19	For immunoglobulins, interferons or a group of products, a small effect on this mechanism you are talking about and the effect of what you are proposing. There is a proposal for the establishment of a Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund, perhaps similar to the monitoring prosecutor of the Attorney General. We have just learned that this supervision of Oversight will be replaced by a mechanism monitoring the Mechanism. This is absurd, fellow Members! We are surprised not that in the last days of this National Assembly, as the colleague said, you are pouring out legislative proposals without any idea what impact they will have on the people who apply these proposals and these laws. We are surprised that this is the first time you have proposed a substantive proposal in a law in which the change should be made to the Insurance Act. It's a good thing you didn't do it through the transitional provisions of the Civil Aviation Act or for the planting material as there are cases. However, it contradicts the spirit and philosophy of the Health Insurance Act. There it is written that the Health Insurance Fund is a public body, independent, managed by the Supervisory Board. Another topic is why, when there was a control board and the Board of Health, you made it possible to unite them into the Supervisory Board. And now you're offering oversight to this Oversight because there's no one to control it! And what will control the Minister of Health, who is, by the way, against these changes, and this was clearly said?! At the moment there are two Deputy Ministers of Health, one of whom is President of Supervision, there is a representative of the Ministry of Finance, there is by law the head of the NRA, so the state has serious representatives. What sudden checks will the Minister of Health do? Perhaps the Deputy Minister, who is not in Oversight, will suddenly check out the other two Deputy Ministers who are in Oversight? This is ridiculous! That's untenable. Not to mention the fact that the President of the Court of Auditors himself appeared in the Health Commission and said it was against the proposed change to participate in this supervisory authority, because at the moment ex-lege is written that control is being carried out there and in the Law on the Court of Auditors it says that it is reported only to the National Assembly and the National Assembly awards possible checks for which it considers to be of public interest. It is no coincidence that the Sustainability Mechanism is called a mechanism. It can be flexible, it can be applied. The fact is that he did so that the pharmaceutical business returned to the Health Insurance Fund of discounts 280 million. lv. But it's a mechanism and it has to be flexible, it's not a lever. This mechanism must be used for this, rather than to offer bodies that carry out and duplicate functions which ex leges are assigned to other bodies. We have also entrusted the Agency for State Financial Inspection and the Court of Auditors. They have no place in any body created by the Minister's order. In this sense, we think that this nonsense should be stopped. He needs to stop the legal bacchanal in health care. Law schools are starting to study already the nonsense created in the legislative body of Bulgaria. This is a shame not just for the representatives of this format of the National Assembly, but for all committees, regardless of who offers the nonsense. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u20	- What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to take the emotions down a little bit and think pragmatically and legally. When this bill was submitted to the National Assembly, the first fact that surprised me was that this type of bill was introduced by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Health or the Minister of Finance in general. It was submitted by six MPs from the Political Party GERB "members of the Health Commission," but it may so happen. That's an option, too. Then we found out why it wasn't submitted by the Council of Ministers. Because all executive institutions, I say responsibly everyone, are against it. Even the Minister of Health who is entrusted with this activity. Deputy Minister Nacheva, who was of the Commission on his behalf, who is President of the Supervisory Board of the Casa, expressed a negative opinion on point 1 of the proposed bill. Then I understood why some essential elements of this proposal were missing. We're missing the numbers, we're missing the calculation of what's being proposed, but let's move on to the first point. Legal absurdities are being created and the Director of the Court of Auditors was absolutely right..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What are we doing, honourable Members, from the Political Party GERB? You must provide the political back, the political quota of the executive power in the National Assembly, because they are your creations. That's what I'm saying. That's how it's supposed to be. Suddenly the political party GERB's parliamentary group has another opinion with the executive power. You're creating chaos in the state. She can no longer rely on the executive to protect her in this room. On the second point. From a medical point of view, this is a proposal that we would support, but this represents a change in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund adopted by us at the end of last year. Here only medical indicators and the medical nature of the proposal are considered quite demagogically. In this case, we reduce the revenue of the Health Insurance Fund and create problems in providing the expenditure and therefore the manager of the Health Insurance Fund is strongly opposed because Pandora's box is opened. It is no coincidence that representatives of organizations said: why is this discount made only for this type of medicinal products? How much is this impact in financial terms for the budget of the Health Insurance Fund We know that this discount, and Dr. Jeffer said that the total discount on medicinal products under this mechanism was 280 million last year. These 280 million allowed the Health Insurance Fund last year to put its budget together because that's not a small amount of money. Here we have the negative opinion of the Health Insurance Fund, the Minister of Finance, the Court of Auditors. What are we doing? Who are we doing this for? On top of that, this proposal for me is a little time-consuming. It does not have a significant role because it is written: Until the end of the emergency situation, which is, at least for now, the end of April, it is about one or two months. This is not a structurally defining proposal, and we're just wasting our time, as they say. I agree that for this group of Bulgarian citizens who are being treated, they have therapy with products obtained from blood plasma processing with immunoglobulin, which is an extremely important problem. There are several extremely important products here that are extremely expensive, but not this way! Not at this moment! And I want the support of the executive, of the Prime Minister. We thought that the Prime Minister, as the chief authority of the executive power, would be concerned because its structures, the ministries, the Court of Auditors, are against it. We don't have an opinion. So, how do we treat it? To be arbitrators between GERB's parliamentary group and GERB's executive power. Dear colleagues, solve your problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u22	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Ademov. Mr. Shopov, put on a mask so people don't look at you without a mask and sit in your seat!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u23	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the very detailed presentation of the proposed bill in the Commission's Report, after the very detailed presentation by the importer of this bill, the question naturally arises: why was this necessary for a bill that is on half a page? However, the more important question is quite another. I would like to go back a little in time to remind the honourable Members that when the National Health Insurance Fund was established, then the structure of the National Health Insurance Fund was three-step. There was a General Assembly, there was a Management Board, there was a Control Board. If, colleagues from GERB, you had not removed this structure, if you had not removed the Control Board, it would now have done what you proposed in this bill. The more important question is this: at the end of last year, the National Health Insurance Fund's Budget Act was adopted. In all the years of the management of GERB changes were made to the Health Insurance Act. If there is a need for supervision of the Supervisory Board by the Commission to control the sustainability and transparency mechanism, why has the Health Insurance Act not been changed in this direction? Why have these proposals not been made in the course of the budgetary procedure at the end of last year? The Health Insurance Act states that this mechanism and the methodology should be made, if I am not mistaken, by the end of January. If this methodology has already been prepared, if in this methodology you do not like something, is that a reason to submit this bill? This control, as the colleagues have just said, suggests several absurd things. First of all, the National Health Insurance Fund Supervisory Board is a member of the Chairman of the National Revenue Agency. Suddenly another member of the National Revenue Agency is proposed in this committee to supervise the manager of the National Revenue Agency, which is a member of the Supervisory Board. This is an absolute misunderstanding in the proposed bill. There is no way that this mechanism you are proposing controls the methodology, controls the transparency requirement in spending the money. So, colleagues, it is not clear at all why this bill is being proposed at the moment and what is its purpose? If you are not satisfied with the 280 million that entered the National Health Insurance Fund budget last year as discounts, you want to change this number up and down. What are you up to with this bill? Given that all institutions are opposed to this proposed bill, what should be the task of the National Assembly to change this bill between first and second readings?! It's a cause of perduta, and there's no way that's gonna happen. Therefore, our parliamentary group will not support the proposed bill. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u24	- What's the line? I won't. Speeches, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A rhetorical question has been asked here many times: why, why, why, why is it necessary, why is it done? There's talk of the bacchanal, the legislative bacchanal in health care. I will try to give a more general political answer. He's existential, at all, about politics, about government, and who's where we're talking about what we're talking about. Honourable colleagues, somewhere in the 1970s, a book came out that caused a storm..........the......the.. the.....the.... the...... was said, which described how... was not only about socialist administrations, but in general about administrations. What are the reasons? What's the genesis? What are the targets? No society is an exception. The book was really genius, and we can move things around these days. As of 2005, when Ataka came out on the political stage, we listed about 130 institutions, committees, departments that were accompanying, for some of which we could not explain their existence and their functions. Every single political force, coming here, in its programmes, is committed in society to reducing the administrative burden......................the............................................................. After 10 years of management of GERB, we come to a complete overlap of what the Parkinsonian Ministry has been talking about, with what is happening today. That's the explanation. The explanations are that no matter how much they swear by GERB, as has happened before, they will reduce the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u26	Mr. Shopov, according to art. 57, para. I am obliged to warn you that you are deviating from the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u27	No! I'm explaining why control is being done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u28	I'll give you two minutes to argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u29	You hate what I'm saying...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u30	Please return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u31	...because it's basic, it's conceptual, and that's why you want to silence it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u32	On the basis of the same article, I will take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u33	Mr. Chairman, I'm explaining to you why control is being controlled. There will be new controllers, the administration reproduces, it increases. I'm sure there are colleagues who will be in control after the end of this term, because there will be new offices, there will be secretaries, there will be cars, there will be expenses. So the obedient party members will be control over control. What we are doing now shows that both GERB and the government are not sure of this control that exists. He's slipping away. Deputy Ministers in the other term may be different, and now those who will control future deputy ministers will be appointed. Here are the explanations and they are not just about education. This is symptomatic, it is done in other spheres. Therefore, control of control, an attempt to control control, with control of the Attorney General, was recently carried out. That is why, yesterday, new controllers in the area of consumer protection were elected here in this Chamber. That's the explanation. Here's the stuff. Here's the key. Colleagues, it's not just about health, there's going to be another phase, I'm telling you. When this phase passes, control over control will have control over control over control. Things are moving towards this distant, though not a recent Orwellian past, which is becoming increasingly visible, which is becoming more and more up-to-date and video surveillance is also on, and control over muzzles, and control over thought, and control over Twitter of the former American president himself throughout the world. That's what this is about. When we think about it in this plan, it may be a small matter of control over the control of the Health Insurance Fund, but we have to think about this plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u34	- What's the line? Any other speeches? Colleagues, I don't see any other speeches. Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After all the loud speeches and not those on the subject, I would like to repeat again what I have already said. I'm sorry to bore the people's representation of the opposition, but it's important. In fact, the idea for this bill was to protect the rights of Bulgarian patients with congenital immunodeficiencys. They approached us that there is a risk that the drugs that support their lives and health, to leave the positive drug list and not be able to provide them for reasons that I have already exposed to increased blood and plasma consumption in relation to the CIVID-19 epidemic, because most of you have been informed that plasma and products produced by it are used in the treatment of this disease. At the same time, with an increase in the production price of the products, the mechanisms that we have introduced, and they are three stages, as I tried to explain to the people's representation, to regulate the price and to ensure that the budget of the Casa covers them, give estimates that make the company have a negative price when presenting these products to the Bulgarian patients. This was the main reason for the care for Bulgarian citizens. And then we have already decided to give the opportunity to monitor this additional mechanism that drives companies to increase budgets in three groups of home treatment drugs, for the treatment of cancers and for treatment under the protocol to be able to control in a way that, on the one hand, gives financial stability, but the most important thing for us as representatives of the Health Commission is to guarantee access to medicines. And this is the problem that we wanted to clarify by introducing a multi-disciplinary committee to control the implementation of the mechanism. I strongly reject the speculation that we are against the funds that come back from pharmaceutical companies to spend on feathers, which we, as legislators, have found to guarantee real access to medicines and their price parameters. I also strongly object to speculation that we want to control control. At the same time, I would like to emphasise again that the methodology is adopted by the Supervisory Board and that the Supervisory Board should, in some way, be transparent, objective, take into account to another authority the way in which this methodology and the mechanism work, so that, on the one hand, we have stability and sustainability of the drug budget, we are only talking about this and, on the other hand, protect the rights of patients and businesses. Of course, we will comply with all the opinions and I said that we will look for another option for this mechanism to be transparent. This could happen if the Court of Auditors, with regard to its commitment to monitor the implementation of the Casa budget, explicitly includes monitoring of this mechanism, and the National Assembly, which receives a report on the Casa's budget, also receives a specific report on the implementation of the mechanism. The great problem of access to medicines in Bulgaria, on the one hand, are the prices and the possibility for patients to have the latest effective, effective and modern medicines, but the other great problem That is why we must be extremely flexible. I absolutely cannot agree that the Constitution sets any difference between the legislative initiative and sets some parameters for who can take part in what legislative initiative, except, of course, in the Law on the Budget of the State, where it is explicitly stated who is drawing it up and proposing it to the National Assembly. Members of the National Assembly have absolute powers to react when there is a need and to present their legislative initiatives, of course, when they are in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. I guarantee that what we have proposed is in the interests of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. - What's the line? Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Daritkova, it is clear as day that the main part of this half-party bill is not the problems with the immunoglobulins mentioned by you and the very small group of patients that you were told here during the discussion that this is not important in your bill. Its nonsense is from its first part. The creation of a mechanism of control control, as has been spoken here for a year.. repair of repair, control of control, mechanism of the mechanism. That's the main thing about your bill. The second thing, by trying to juggle phrases, we warn you four years during the vote on the National Health Insurance Fund budget not to push into a group of oncopreparates, preparations from plasma products, that these are quite different groups of medicines and target different patient groups. Now that is exactly how you open, as one colleague said, Pandora's box and under the docking law, the compensation will have to pay them others, which will lead to what you allegedly plead to an even greater reduction. Each year, dozens of products leave the market because of your catastrophic drug policy. So no matter how much you speak from this tribune, you won't be able to protect this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u38	Thank you. Another line? A hole? Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Health Insurance Act with No 154-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. They voted 145 MPs: 92 against 45, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADVOCTURE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW. The representatives of the People's Representative Iglika Sabeva and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Kostadinova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Law Enforcement, No 154-01-12, submitted by Iglika Ivanova-Subeva and a group of MPs on 3 February 2021. At its meeting held on 10 February 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Law Enforcement, No 154-01-12, submitted by Iglika Ivanova-Subeva and a group of MPs on 3 February 2021. The meeting was attended by the Supreme Council of Law: Ms. Ralitsa Negentsova President, and Mrs. Valya Gigova Member. The bill was presented by Mrs. Sabeva, who pointed out that it creates a legal possibility for the exercise of legal activities through a single law firm. She added that, with the support of legislative proposals, each lawyer will be entitled to choose whether to exercise a legal profession as a natural person and to tax his income under the Law on Income Tax on Natural Persons, or to exercise his profession through a single law firm, thus being able to benefit from the tax regime for taxation of income from legal activities under the Law on Corporate Income Tax. It clarified that, when taxing revenue under the Corporate Income Tax Act, any actual costs incurred for the activities of the lawyer can be deducted from the revenue from the activity without the existing limitation on statutory and recognised costs under the Income Tax Act of natural persons. The Law also proposes dropping the prohibition of a lawyer being the manager of a commercial company, as well as the executive director of a public limited liability company. This change is dictated both by the changes proposed by this bill and by the development of public relations and the alignment of the provisions of the Law on Law on Law Enforcement with the existing arrangements in a large part of the countries of the European Union. The Supreme Council of Law indicated that they supported the legislative initiative and added that the intended choice was a timely and appropriate measure to improve the conditions for the exercise of legal activity. The discussion was attended by MPs Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov and Christian Mitev. Members of the National Assembly expressed their support for the Bill and added that it is in line with European practices and rules and improves the legal framework in terms of legal activity. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 20 votes for the Law on Legal Affairs, with no objection and no abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Law Enforcement, No 154-01-12, submitted by Iglika Ivanova-Subeva and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 3 February 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u40	Thank you. Mrs. Sabeva, here's an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention the reasons for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the first time on the grounds of art. 147 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly declare a conflict of interest within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest as a member of the Gabrovo Bar Association. Regarding the Bill, he introduced the possibility of exercising legal activity through a single law firm in accordance with Directive 98/5/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 16 December 1998 on the facilitation of the permanent exercise of a law profession in a Member State other than that in which the qualification was acquired, an opportunity for the formation of a single law firm such as exists in the laws of a large part of the Member States, but does not exist under national law for Bulgarian lawyers and lawyers of the European Union. The bill creates a legal opportunity for each lawyer, according to his needs and the volume of work, to choose whether to exercise the legal profession and to receive his income from it as an independent economic activity natural person or to exercise his profession independently through a single law firm, taking advantage of the tax regime for taxing the income from the activities of the Corporate Income Tax Act. This will not have a negative effect on the budget. On the contrary, it will be possible to deduct any actual costs incurred for the activities of the lawyer in the form of a single law firm in the form of a single law firm from the activity of the company, without the existing limitation on statutory expenses under the Law on Income Taxes of natural persons in this case. In this way, lawyers will be given the opportunity to assess themselves to choose how to organise their activities. Secondly, the bill also proposes dropping the ban on a lawyer being the manager of a trading company, as well as the executive director of a joint stock company which is inadequate with the current development of public relations and existing arrangements in a large part of the countries in the European Union. The current provision of art. 5, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on This restriction is devoid of meaning, especially in cases where the trading company is the sole owner of the lawyer. The prohibition of the lawyer being the manager of a company, respectively the CEO of a company, including its own company, deprives registered lawyers of the possibility to use their qualifications, knowledge and skills in another field of activity such as the management of commercial companies. For the implementation of the amendments envisaged by the Bill, no additional funds and other resources are needed, and the Law will have no direct or indirect impact on the state budget. The results expected from the adoption of the proposed bill are improving the conditions for the self-exercise of the legal profession and the organisation of the activities of the lawyers, which will be carried out by their own choice. The bill also complies with relevant European Union law, in particular Council of Europe Directive 77/249 of 22 March 1977 on the facilitation of effective exercise by lawyers of freedom to prove legal services, as well as Directive 98/5 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 16 February 1998 on the facilitation of the permanent exercise of the legal profession in a Member State other than that in which the qualification was acquired. It is also consistent with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as well as with the Code of Ethics of the Union of Lawyers and Lawyers in Europe. The proposals of the Bill are supported by the legal community. Within the limits of the powers of the Supreme Council of Laws under art. 122, para. 1, t. 11 of the Law on Law Enforcement to make proposals for the improvement of legislation on 15 January 2021 a decision was taken by the Supreme Council of Laws to initiate the legislative change aimed at limiting the grounds for incompatibility in the exercise of the legal profession and the establishment of the rules of single law firms. The bill is useful, it is supported, it pursues goals that need to be implemented, and I will therefore ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As it has become clear in the Legal Committee, our parliamentary group will support this bill here as well. It is long-awaited and planned by the Bar Association, by the guild in Bulgaria by the lawyers. I should first declare a conflict of interest as an active lawyer. The bill has two main guidelines, two directions. One is that it enables lawyers to enter the management of commercial companies as managers or directors. So far, it has been forbidden for this ban to be dropped because lawyers are people who know how to run the relevant trading company, respect for laws and legal procedures and so on. In addition, this bill enables a lawyer to establish a single law firm - a legal option - is not an obligation. Naturally, lawyers who set up such a company should not be taxed as individuals, but under the Corporate Income Tax Act, which will not harm in any way the fissure, even I think will have a positive role and effect. These are the main reasons why we will support this bill. He was indeed long-awaited by the lawyering community in Bulgaria. I think it was time, and I hope it will quickly pass at second reading. Good luck with the Bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there lines? Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! And I will make a declaration under the Law for preventing and establishing conflict of interest for private interests, conflict of interest, as a lawyer from the Burgas Bar Association. I will also call on you to support this bill. This is a bill which, in practice, in the times of pandemic and economic crisis, represents an opportunity for lawyers and a measure with regard to them, which will help them to create an opportunity for them to choose the possibility of setting up a single law firm and to be taxed under the Corporate Income Tax Act and their statutoryly recognised costs to be without those restrictions which exist in the Law on the taxation of personal incomes. This would, of course, not lead to the damage of a fissure on the contrary, even to additional proceeds, which is no less important, to greater publicity and transparency in the activities of lawyers. The fact that there is a positive opinion of the Supreme Council of Laws and also of individual colleagues who practice in the country shows that this bill will be adopted and accepted well by the fellow lawyers in Bulgaria. It also deserves attention to its second part, which removes, I would say, the absurd restriction a lawyer who can be a partner in a limited liability company may be a shareholder in a limited liability company, but cannot be a manager in LTD or an executive director in AD. Indeed, it is an absurd restriction, it is archaic, given, of course, and the year of adoption of the current Law on Law of Law. Undoubtedly, this law can also be seen as a step in the direction of a larger reform of the lawyer's law, which should happen, most likely not within this term, but in the next term, a new Law on the lawyer's office should be considered to be adopted. Once again, I urge you, fellow Members, to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u46	Thank you. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on Law of Law, No 154-01-12, submitted by the National Representative Iglika Ivanova-Subeva and a group of MPs. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mitev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "The deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the newly adopted Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Law Enforcement to be reduced to three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u48	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF THE EXEMPTION, NOTIFICED BY DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 13 MARCH 2020 AND ON THE REFUNDING OF THE CONSEQUENCES. The representatives of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, before I present the Report, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Adriana Stoimenova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u50	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 84 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We'll continue with the report, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u51	Report on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-7, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 29 January 2021 and adopted on the first vote on 5 February 2021. The Act for Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences (promise, SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for the name of the Law, and before the word................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is a proposal of the MPs Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Matsurev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In supplier measures shall not be imposed and enforcement actions shall not be carried out within two months of the cancellation of the exceptional epidemic situation on cash paid to workers and employees as compensation on the basis of an act of the Council of Ministers in relation to overcoming the effects of COVID-19. They shall not be subject to enforcement of protective communications on employees' claims under the first sentence, including those received on their bank or other payment accounts. There is a proposal of the MP Alexander Sabanov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6c, para. 1 after the words "State ownership', "state ownership' shall be added as well as the management bodies of state-owned enterprises and commercial companies with 100 per cent State participation in the capital leased or used by their properties'.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u52	Are there any speeches? No. I put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of the Law with the proposal for a supplement made by the Commission, as well as the Commission's proposal for the creation of two new paragraphs Vote 82 MPs: 78, none, abstention 4. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u53	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 3, as in para. 1 prior to the words.......................................................................................................... There is a proposal of the MPs Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Matsurev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15a the following additions 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is created.Funds can also be provided by means of additional transfers from the budget of the Ministry of Health. 2. They're creating an al. 2? 4: The Ministry of Health may pay additional remuneration for the results achieved to staff in the Ministry of Health system and its sub-departmental authorising officers operating under adverse working conditions during the declared emergency situation, respectively, to the emergency epidemiological situation, including activities related to the introduction of vaccines against COVID-19. (3) The restrictions under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 9 and 10 of the Law on the Civil Service and Art. 107a, para. 15 and 16 of the Labour Code may be exceeded to the level of remuneration under para. 2 and the contributions due on them. (4) The periodicity of payment of remuneration under para. 2 shall be determined by order of the Minister of Health and shall not apply the restrictions under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8 of the Law on the Civil Service and Art. 107a, para. 15 of the Labour Code. There is a proposal of the MPs Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Matsurev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26b the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: . (1) Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which, in accordance with an order of the Minister of Health in the event of an emergency epidemic situation have ceased their activity after 1 November 2020, shall be granted grants of a percentage of their turnover without VAT for the same calendar period within the period from 1 March 2019 to 29 February 2020 including, for a period until the relevant reason for cessation of activity has been dropped. For enterprises which, after 1 January 2020, have started/renewed activity which has ceased in the execution of an order of the Minister of Health, the grants shall be of a percentage of their turnover without VAT for the previous month of the month in which the activity has ceased. The funds referred to in the preceding sentence shall be made available for each of the months until the relevant reason for the cessation of the activity is dropped, and for incomplete months the grants shall be awarded in proportion to the days of the month. 2. In para. The second sentence is created: "In a procedure by selection of project proposals may participate and grant financial assistance may be granted to persons who do not have public obligations under art. 162, para. 2, p. 1 and 7 of the Tax Procedure Code before 1 January 2020, established by the entry into force of a competent authority, or their obligations are deferred, deferred or secured, including persons for whom the grounds under art. 54, para. 1, t. 6 of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u54	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 1 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission and the Commission's proposals for the creation of two new paragraphs Vote 84 MPs: 75 against 3, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u55	There is a proposal of the MPs Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Matsurev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. In § 4a, para. 1 and 2 the number 2. Paragraph 21b is inserted: ............................................................................... (1) In 2021 vaccines against COVID-19 may also be administered to: 1. persons residing continuously in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. members of diplomatic and consular representations and representatives of international organisations accredited in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as members of their administrative technical and service personnel. 3. members of the families of the persons under point 3. 2 who live with them in a household in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The conditions and procedures for vaccination of persons under para. 1 shall be defined in the national vaccination plan against COVID-19 in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by Decision No 896 of the Council of Ministers of 7 December 2020. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 7, and the text before that. 1 is amended as follows: In the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax (SG. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The following additions shall be made in
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u56	Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: a proposal by the Commission to create a new § 6 with a text on the Commission Report; a text of the importer on the name of the division
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u57	Vote 92 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u58	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 176a, para. 1 the 2. In § 1, t. 64 of the additional provisions are created sentence three: The States/territories included in the European Union list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes are also the Member States/territories included in the list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. Under § 4 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on Gambling (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 3 the word "Kenno" is deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 the words "lottos" shall be replaced by "lottos and kenos"; (bb) c. 3 words "chile lottery games bingo and keno" are replaced by "chile lottery game bingo". (b) in para. 2, p. 2 the words "chillory lottery games bingo and keno" are replaced by "chillory lottery game bingo". 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, t. 5 Finally, the words "on a basis of tests" shall be added from the register referred to in art. 20, para. 1, t. 4 laboratory and under conditions and by order defined in the ordinance under art. 42, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. The following amendments shall be made: (a) c. 1 the words "chillory lottery games bingo and keno" are replaced by "biggos lottery game bingo"; (b) c. 4 the words s and lottos shall be replaced by the lottos and the kenos. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 2, p. 6 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 6. Article 42, para. 3 is amended as follows: . (3) No operation in the country of gaming equipment and jackpot systems of type and modification which are not listed in the register under art. 20, para. 2 based on tests from recorded in the register under art. 20, para. 1, t. 4 laboratory and under conditions and by order defined in the ordinance under art. 42, para. 2. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 45th text has become para. 1 and the creation of para. 2: 2 No use of self-service devices for organizing lottery games which are not listed in the register under art. 20, para. 2 based on tests from recorded in the register under art. 20, para. 1, t. 4 laboratory and under conditions and by order defined in the ordinance under art. 42, para. 2. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. the first sentence is replaced by the first sentence; (b) in para. 3 sentence first after the word "lotos" the words "os" shall be added; (c) in para. The first sentence of the first sentence is replaced by the following: 9. Article 57 is amended as follows: "Play bingo" Art. 57. (1) The bingo game is a gambling game where you bet on one or more number combinations and draw a number of numbers forming the winning combinations. (2) In the game bingo is bet with coupons on which are previously reflected combinations of numbers. (3) When the game is organised in a gaming hall, the participation coupons shall be securities issued by the State. They shall be made available to the organisers of the Ministry of Finance against a request. (4) The amounts of wins in the bingo game are formed as a pre-defined percentage of the proceeds. At least 50 percent of the value of the proceeds from the bingo game shall be distributed among the participants in the form of profits to be provided immediately after their announcement. (5) The bingo game must be provided with an entry in the register under art. 20, para. 2 a central computer system, including a system for online submission of information about the formation and distribution of profits. The Central Computer System shall ensure the submission of information to a server of the National Revenue Agency by ensuring the online registration of each transaction in the system of the National Revenue Agency in order and manner defined in the ordinance under art. 17, para. 3, p. 6................................................ 10. Article 58 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks ( SG No. 65 from 2020) Paragraph 19a shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u59	Separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u60	Now we're at § 6, let's finish with § 6, we'll discuss it and we'll vote. Finish with § 6 by importer and we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u61	seventeena. The State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks shall carry out the activities of the State Enterprise State Oil Company under art. 11b, para. 1 of the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks and Functions under art. 3a of the Oil and Oil Stocks Act to the final actual transfer of assets, liabilities, archives, reserves and reserves held by the State-owned company. The funding of the activities and functions by sentence shall be carried out first by providing transfers from the budget of the Ministry of Economy under the budget of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. The resulting compensatory changes to the budgets of the Ministry of Economy and the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks shall be carried out in accordance with art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 of the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u62	Thank you. I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 3 to 6 by importer. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I accept your conversations at the time of reading the gambling texts. I see that you are also experiencing some inconvenience, because we should be ashamed of the people's representatives that when there are discussing changes in the Emergency Act, when the number of infected people is growing, when we have problems in hospitals, we have problems with vaccination, someone has decided a month before the elections to cache, to collect the last money that may be put in the elections, and we are putting it as a sandwich between hospitals and COVID-19, now a month before someone's election is overturned to gambling and then, Mr. President, to look at the wartime reserves. It's perversion! So, if you please, divide.........................the... must. vote against gambling and return the money from whoever took it, because it is a shame! And to vote on the texts that really concern the state of emergency and the wartime reserves of the Republic of Bulgaria you just hit the bottom and dig!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Paragraph 6 will be postponed for a separate vote. Do you have lines first? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 3 which shall become § 8 by the version of the Commission, § 4, which shall become § 9 by the wording of the Commission and § 5, which shall become § 10 by importer. Please put on your masks, please. Colleagues, put on your masks, I said. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs have been adopted. And now I am voting on the text of § 6 which acquires a new numbering of 11 by the wording of the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 6 was adopted with a new numbering 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u65	Under § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In the Law on Family Aid for Children (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 5, t. 2 Finally added by families of relatives or relatives and voluntary foster families under para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the (b) Paragraph 3 shall be created. 9. The amount of monthly support for families of relatives or close and voluntary foster families when the accommodated child has 90 per cent and over 90 per cent of the type and degree of disability or degree of permanent disability is reduced by the amount of monthly financial assistance that the families receive for the child under the Child Protection Act. 2. In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 12: ..12. "Acceptable foster families" are foster families under art. 31, para. 1 of the Child Protection Act, which is not professional. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 13. Under § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Violeta Zheleva and a group of MPs. The following amendments shall be made to § 9 in Transitional and Final Provisions: "1." A new t. is created. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93, para. 2 is created t. 3: "3." Lonely-living adults with permanent disabilities without assistance who do not receive care in a home environment under the order of another law. 2. Previously on "T." 1... is 3. Point 3 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u66	I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 by importer. Mrs. Zheleva, in your eyes I read a desire to speak. You don't even raise your hand, but I already know you better.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making this proposal, which is put to our attention by the National Association of Municipalities. This is a problem they face in the implementation of the new social service. Many municipalities signal that there are cases where lonely adults with permanent disabilities... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u68	Please be quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u69	...who are not entitled to assistant support under any other law, remain unobtained by the Social Services Act. According to the existing definition under the Social Services Act or art. 93, para. 2 are entitled to assistant support for overworkers, inability to self-service who do not have a degree of reduced capacity and children with long-term disabilities, with certain non-assisted non-assisted help, assistance for providing assistant support or for whom no home care assistance is received under another law. It is so that in these two hypotheses there remains a third group, which has a certain degree of disability, remains unobstructed because there is a limit in both the Social Services Act and the Personal Aid Act. This is why municipalities propose to include those people who remain outside the scope of assistant support. That is why I have made this proposal, which they propose to include the lonely adults with permanent disabilities without help who do not receive care in a home environment under the order of another law. I suppose that colleagues from GERB will pull out of ten wells of water to say that this proposal is not reasonable, that there is overlap, that there can be assistance under another law under the Personal Aid Act, but there I will not go into the specific and quote you precisely certain members, to prove to you that there is a restriction in this law. But what's happening? Yeah, you'll say it can't be accepted, as always. In fact, from one law in the eighth or in the one we are now looking at, you are proposing a change of example to the bingo, lotto and keno lottery games. This can change the Law on Emergency Measures and what is extraordinary in this, but it cannot, when there is a reasonable proposal proposed by the municipalities, and I would like to point out that a large part of the mayors of these municipalities are from GERB, colleagues! So I'm moving on to the second proposal we've made. As very often happens, one thing we will not accept and we will postpone it in the years ahead. Maybe in 2024, when will the National Social Services Card be drawn up?! Because this is what you are proposing now that it should be postponed after the census is done. This is also linked to our next proposal, which cancels the new standards for social services. They're canceling again for an unknown time. But I would like to remind you that perhaps two or three years ago, and since then we have been listening to all the social ministers and deputy ministers who are telling us that, you see, with the new standards, the quality of social services will also improve the remuneration of social workers. And what do we see now, right now?! We say we'll postpone them for another two, three or four years! For what needs to be done for the quality of social services, for improving the scope of the social service, so that more people are covered, you will say: no, but gambling will say: yes. Once again, we see what the priority of this government is. Thank you, colleagues. However, I am asking you for reason. The proposal is from the National Association of Municipalities, and I ask you to recognize this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u70	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the version of paragraphs 7 and 8 by importer, which shall become paragraphs 12 and 13, which § 13 shall be by importer. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 7 and 8 respectively, with a new numbering, paragraphs 12 and 13 have been adopted. I am now voting on the proposal under Paragraph 9 of the National Representative Violeta Zheleva. Vote 77 MPs: 12, Against 34, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the wording of § 9 by importer, which becomes § 14. Vote 78 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. The text of § 14 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u71	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22. The municipal council shall determine by the ordinance under art. 1, para. 2 the amount of tax within 0,1 to 4,5 per thousand on the tax valuation of the real estate. 2. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. The following amendments shall be made to the final provisions: (a) Paragraph 13. 1 the words s 31 December 2021 shall be replaced by 31 December of the year following the publication of the results of the population and housing census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021; (b) Paragraph 13a shall be repealed. 3. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. The following amendments shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: (a) in § 16: (aa) in para. 1 the words "for 2022" and "31 January 2022" shall be replaced by the words "for the second year following the publication of the results of the population and housing census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021" and "31 January" of the second year following the publication of the results of the population and housing census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021; (bb) in para. 2 the words "For 2022" shall be replaced by "For the second year following the publication of the results of the population and housing census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021; (b) § 17, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "for 2022" shall be replaced by "for the second year following the publication of the results of the population and housing census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021; (c) in § 20, the words "31 March 2021' shall be replaced by "31 March of the year following the publication of the results of the population and housing census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021; (d) in § 21, the words. "1 January 2022" shall be replaced by "1 January of the second year following the publication of the results of the census and the housing fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021. According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MPs Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Matsurev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union with the exception of: 1. Paragraphs 4 and 7 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2021. 2. Paragraph 5 which shall enter into force from 11 December 2020. 3. Paragraph 15 t. 1 concerning Art. 22 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which enters into force from 20 April 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u72	I'm opening the debate on the read paragraphs. Go ahead, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal in today's legislative programme to include this. 6 of yesterday "First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors with Importer The Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u74	Thank you for your wonderful offer, Mr. Yachev...................................................................................... we have time. The law is very short, so I put to the vote Mr. Yachev's proposal. Vote 73 MPs: 62, against 4, abstention 7. By a large majority, the proposal to examine the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors has been adopted. Are there any statements under the new § 15 and § 10 which becomes § 16 under this Law? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on these two paragraphs. Vote 74 MPs: 72, none, abstention 2. The two paragraphs have been adopted, which we have concluded with this bill. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to remain in their seats, as we are about to see a very important law - important and short: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONTROL OF NARCOTIC INGREDIENTS AND PRECURSORS. Who will introduce the National Assembly to the Report? Mrs. Daritkova, the stands are yours to make a summary of the First Voting Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021. At its regular meeting on 28 January 2021, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov; representatives of: Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Customs and the State Agency of National Security, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the word organizations in the field of health. The draft and its reasons were presented by Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative meets the need to comply with the Law on Control of Drugs and Prepatriates with the general requirements of the Law on Restriction of Administrative Regulation and Administrative Control of Business, Administrative Procedure Code, the Law on Administration and the Law on Electronic Governance. Under the provisions of the abovementioned laws, individual administrative regimes should be governed at the level of a law with a clear indication of the requirements for the operation of individual administrative services, time limits, procedures and necessary documents. In this context, it is proposed that the authorisation regimes currently regulated in regulations be governed by the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. A change in the composition of the National Drug Council is proposed in order to carry out more effective work of the Council by including persons with close competence to control drugs. As Vice-President, Deputy Minister of Health instead of Deputy Minister of Justice is included, as the activities of the National Council on Drugs and Municipal Councils on Drugs are included in its functions. Deputy Minister of Interior is envisaged to be included in the Council's composition instead of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior in relation to its competences. Other specialists with experience in the treatment of addictions, such as psychologists and social workers, as their professional competence would have an important role in the work of the Council, are also given the opportunity as members of the Expert Board for the treatment of addictions. It is envisaged that municipal drug councils will be replaced by district drug councils in order to enable drug demand reduction activities to be a commitment of all municipalities in the area and not just municipalities that are administrative centres. The composition of the councils is regulated, and the President-in-Office, two Vice-Presidents, Secretary and Members, as the Chairman of the Council will be the Regional Governor, and as members of the Board it is proposed to include all mayors of municipalities who are in the territory of the administrative area concerned. The district councils will adopt municipal programmes to combat drug abuse in accordance with the National Anti-narcotics Strategy. The Law establishes drug-related prevention centres in municipalities that are administrative centres of districts. They will consist of a Director, Deputy Director and experts and will develop municipal programmes to combat drug abuse, carry out activities under the National Strategy to combat drug abuse, collect, store and analyse information at regional level which is necessary for the implementation of national and municipal programmes to combat drug abuse. The proposed changes aim at improving the operational work of the current municipal councils on narcotics and preventive information centres on the implementation of the national policy on reducing the demand and supply of drugs. In this way, comprehensive, comprehensive and effective control will be carried out on the prevention of drug use, as well as control over expenditure on delegated budgets. The activities under the National Strategy will be implemented across the board and will cover a maximum number of people in need. The control of the treatment of drug addicts shall also be optimized, together with the regional health inspection as control bodies, the Executive Agency shall also be designated the Medical Supervision and the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis. The current provisions of the Law on the prohibition of transit through the territory of the country of drugs from the lists under art. 3, para. In accordance with the wording of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the 1971 Psychotropic Substances Convention under which transit is prohibited, except where an export permit is granted by the competent authorities of the exporting country. In order to reduce the administrative burden on business, it is proposed to establish compliance of the factual conditions with the requirements for the buildings and premises where drug activities will be carried out, to be carried out on the basis of a copy of part of the project approved or of the execution documentation or architectural project-making of the buildings and premises where drug activities will be carried out. The responsible Master Pharmacists under art. 34 of the CNHR to be in employment relationship with a contract for the award of the management, respectively, which will be established in the course of the administrative service on the issue or change of licences. This will ensure compliance with the functions and responsibilities provided for in the law, replaced by the Master Pharmacist under art. 34 of the Law. The requirement to issue a regulation of the Council of Ministers with the object of determining the procedure for issuing authorisation for the supply and storage of medicinal products containing narcotics is proposed to be lifted in the special warehouses of the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks and in the wartime stocks of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. The analysis carried out shows that the existing regulations of the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks and its regulations are comprehensive with regard to the specific activities carried out in state reserves and wartime stocks, including those with the supply and storage of drugs containing medicinal products. According to the amendments made to art. 55, para. 1 of the Law does not need to be licensed or authorised to carry out these activities under the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. The conditions and arrangements for the supply and storage of medicinal products containing narcotics for first aid in the event of emergencies on board ships and aircraft shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Health. The ban on advertising of drugs and plants from the lists under art. is proposed to be refined. 3, para. 2, p. 1, 2 and 3 of the HCG and medicinal products containing drugs, the aim is to cover all advertising hypotheses, since within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 29 or 30 of the Additional provisions of the law are available only when it has been made public. The provisions concerning the operation of activities with precursors and the storage of representative samples of illegally seized plants, narcotics and precursors shall also be reviewed. The Military Medical Academy is added to the institutions conducting an expert study on narcotic drugs, thereby enabling specialist chemo-toxic laboratories to identify narcotic drugs and subsequent diagnostic and medical activities in a number of cases related to use or poisoning, as well as carrying out other emergency studies of narcotic drugs at the disposal of pre-trial and court authorities. The draft Law also provides for the application of Regulation (EC) No 273/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council on drug precursors, Council Regulation (EC) No 111/2005 laying down rules for the monitoring of trade between the Community and third countries in the field of precursors, and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/1111 of 24 April 2015 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1013 of 25 June 2015. An administrative criminal provision shall be introduced in the event of breach of the terms and conditions under which authorisation for activities under art. 73, para. 1 of the OCR. The Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice, the State Agency "National Security" and the Customs Agency and the Bulgarian Association of Dentists support the proposed regulatory changes without any comments and suggestions. The principle of support for the Bill is expressed by the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, and the specific proposals on the various texts of the provisions are contained in their written opinions. During the discussion, the MPs raised specific questions regarding the texts of some of the provisions proposed and drew attention to the fact that some of the proposed amendments and additions raise some concern and should therefore be put to further public consultation with all interested parties before a final decision is taken. It was pointed out that part of the legislative changes should be reconsidered and refined between the first and second votes of the Bill, taking into account the written observations received by the Commission. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken on the following results, 11 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. The next report is from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. The rules also allow a summary of the report, you do not need to read it all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I will present a summary to: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021. At its regular meeting on 3 February 2021, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021. The meeting was attended by: Svetlana Yordanova, Deputy Minister of Health, Venda Zidarova, Head of the Department of Narcotics and Drugs, Senior Commissioner Kalin Lenkov, Deputy Director of the Directorate General, National Police and Commissioner Dimitar Koshov. The bill and its motives were presented by Deputy Minister Svetlana Yordanova. Ms. Yordanova pointed out that the implementation of the Council of Ministers' Decision No 704 of 2018 on reducing the administrative burden for citizens and businesses and creating better conditions for economic and investment activity is at the heart of this bill. The Ministry of Interior voiced support for the bill, objecting to the inclusion of Deputy Minister of Interior at the place of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior in the composition of the National Drug Council. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, 14 votes for.... 1 vote against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Summary of the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 21 January 2021, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Prepatriates, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021. The proposed legal changes achieve full passage of licenses at the level of the law, and changes by nature of regulation are not foreseen. A change in the composition of the National Drug Council is proposed in order to carry out more effective work of the Council by including persons with close competence to control drugs. It is envisaged that municipal drug councils will be replaced by district drug councils so that drug demand reduction activities can be a commitment of all municipalities in the area and not just municipalities that are administrative centres. Centers for prevention of drug addiction in municipalities are established which are administrative centers of areas where municipal programs will be developed to combat drug abuse. It is also envisaged to optimize control over the treatment of drug addicts, along with the regional health inspection as control bodies, the Executive Agency of Medical Supervision and the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis is also designated. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management with 13 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. I give the floor to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism Report. Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the law on control of drugs and precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 3 February 2021, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. The meeting was attended by Svetlana Yordanova, Deputy Minister of Health, who presented the bill. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to implement changes in the authorisation regimes which are currently regulated in regulations and to align them with the requirements of the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. There are no changes in the nature of regulation when the regimes are passed to the legal level. After a vote with results of 11 votes for the vote, 8 votes abstentions and no votes against the committee on economic policy and tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. The Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm presenting. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021. At its regular meeting on 14 January 2021, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Health: Svetlana Yordanova Deputy Minister, and Venda Zidarova expert. The bill was presented by Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, who introduced the MPs to the main changes. The proposed draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors aims to implement the measures adopted by Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers of 2018 to transform the model of administrative services in Bulgaria. The Bill aims to make changes in several main directions. The authorisation regimes introduced by the Law are regulated by regulations and therefore there is a non-compliance with the requirements of the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. The current changes aim to fully pass the regimes at the level of the law, and changes by the essence of regulation are not foreseen. A change is proposed in the composition of the National Council on Narcotic Drugs in order to carry out more effective work of the Council by involving persons................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is proposed that municipal drug councils should be replaced by district drug councils in order to enable drug demand reduction activities to be a commitment of all municipalities in the area and not just municipalities that are administrative centres. Centers for prevention of drug addiction in municipalities are established which are administrative centers of districts. The proposed changes aim at optimising and improving the operational work of the current municipal councils on narcotics and preventive information centres on the implementation of the national policy on reducing the demand and supply of drugs. In the subsequent discussion were the following MPs: Stefan Burgeev and Kristina Sidorova, who expressed principled support of the bill and emphasized on the need to strengthen the role of municipal prevention centers. After the discussion and the vote held with 14 votes for the Council, without the opposition and 3 votes, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Kostadinova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Anyone? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u85	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, today we cannot fail to congratulate the ruling coalition, because perhaps this is the only law recently passed by the channel order, namely through a proposal of the Council of Ministers, and not as so far by means of a group of MPs, with one goal: to protect lobbyist interests, which then do not declare a conflict of interest from the tribune. However, the proposed bill amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors is part of a package aimed at transforming the model of administrative services in Bulgaria. The Bill also aims at changing the following guidelines: the production permit; acquisition; import; export; storage of limited quantities of drugs. A change in the composition of the National Drug Council is proposed. Here the main change is that in this composition it is proposed by the Ministry of Interior to be a Deputy Minister and not the Secretary General. In our opinion, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms must remain the Secretary-General, because he is a professional, not a political figure. The arguments that until now the Secretary General has not attended a meeting of the National Council, apart from Boyko Borisov, are unfounded to us and we believe that Mr. Borisov does not need such advertising. It is proposed that municipal drug councils should be replaced by district councils. It is clear that the composition of the district councils does not provide for an opportunity for NGOs to participate. This will lead to a violation of European policies. In our opinion, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will also lead to a deepening of the budget. The changes are formal and will not improve the activities of the National Council, optimization will not be achieved, but on the contrary an additional administration, which will aggravate the budget, and this is aimed at creating a new administration, which will have a political hue. It's clear what shade I'm talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u86	Is there a line on the speech of the MP Ahmedov? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the law on control of drugs and precursors, No 102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021. Vote 91 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 12. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next point: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. [[Noise.]] A new request for the period from 5 to 11 February 2021 from: Mr. Dora Jankova of Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on the work at a distance. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 19 February 2021. [[Noise.]] Can you please be quiet? After all, there are MPs who are interested in what is read from the stands. Written answers from: The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov of four questions by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; "The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the MPs Irena Anastasova and Nikolay Tsonkov; "The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; "The Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; "The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on three issues by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; The Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on nine questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov asked a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva; The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev asked a question from the National Representative Desislav Taskov; The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on two issues from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; "The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva. If you please, someone get the written answers. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chairman, in recent days the town of Kyustendil has already crossed the border of 300 infected 1,000 of the CIVID-19. The people in Kyustendil are worried. In this regard, I and a colleague of BSP's parliamentary group on Tuesday asked the Minister of Health a question for today, Friday. To come from this tribune to answer: why is this allowed; what are the measures; is the hospital in Kyustendil ready, as we have information that things are not going well there? Unfortunately, people were expecting a response today from the highest tribune, we see in parliamentary control that on the basis of art. 96 Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov has requested a postponement of the answer by one week. Dear Mr. Chairman, do you understand by next Friday what could happen to Kyustendil?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u88	I understand, but what do you expect me to do? The procedure is the way it is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u89	I expect Minister Angelov from you to come and answer to Kyustendilians about these problems, extremely important. He was in Kyustendil on Tuesday, but listen to what he says: "This concerns us because we cannot find answers to the questions why this is happening. This puzzles us and raises questions that we cannot find answers to. If the minister can't find answers, he can resign.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u90	Mr. Georgiev, no general politics. You have a procedure in the manner of conduct. He can postpone, so that's what he did.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u91	I ask you to contact the Minister of Health, come and answer these important Kyustendil questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u92	Mr. Georgiev, I have not been appointed by you to the National Assembly. [[Replication by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Declaration. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u93	What's wrong? [[Replication by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Declaration. "]] A statement outside the accepted agenda. You have the right to speak outside the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Two days ago, the chairman of our parliamentary group in a group declaration spoke our sincere concerns about one of the most important issues not only about our educational system, but also about the whole society. With visual examples were shown what Bulgarian children read in their textbooks. Of course, this position of BSP for Bulgaria is not new. We have spoken it in declarations, in questions to the Minister of Education, in the Chamber and at meetings of the Committee on Education and Science. We have pointed out examples, especially with the replacement of our history by ignoring sign events and personalities and exaggerating the importance of others, but the ruling majority passed them by ironic misdirections. You probably think that this is the way to react to facts, such as: in the 10th grade history book on Hristo Botev: Under the influence of anarchism he denies the state, and his utopian ideas about the future of Bulgarian society are also related to the view of a common struggle of nations for social justice. After this is presented Botev, nothing prevents the Story of the 7th grade from having only one sentence for the massacres in Batak and Perushtitsa: In Batak and Perushtitsa thousands of women, children and old people were killed. It must remain in their minds, not the martyr's death of innocent Bulgarians!? In the 10th grade, the Russian-Turkish War of 1877 was no longer liberation, but it was just war. There is not a word about the genocide of the Bulgarians in Adrianople Thrace during the Balkan War in 1913, when the Ottoman army massacred and banished the Bulgarians from this fertile and rich land and Adrianople was de-Bulgarian. There is nothing written about the situation of the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs. In the textbook The Man and the Society..... about the battle at the village of Key is only mentioned. Saved is the fact that the soldiers are blinded and left to 100 people by one leader, nor is the name of Emperor Vasily called the Bulgarian Slayer. Turkish slavery is no longer even Ottoman rule, but foreign rule. The struggles against this rule are on the same page. The Heidoos are only mentioned. There are only eight rows for Vasil Levski's case. The April uprising and the liberation war are on the same page. There's also a missing Khan Omurtag, the Khan builder. The story of Patriarch Evtimiy, who takes over the protection of Tarnovgrad, is missing. Now that's what we call changing and twisting history. And as a respected professor at the Sofia University writes: The creation and production of textbooks has become an open-air profiteering business. One of the harshest and vulgarly denying the financial profits of publishing companies and copyright groups. Short-term and turbulent discussions about textbooks organized by the vicious TV shows condemned teachers, school guides and the same name authors, and the interests of our children, of our future. It is grotesque to say that this is pluralism and democracy in education. All this and many more such facts are provided to us by teachers. Yeah, those who appreciate textbooks, but they appreciate what they've been given, and it's given with the blessing of the Ministry of Education. A very separate topic is how it is organized and carried out the so-called evaluation. Dozens and hundreds of textbooks for a few days, sometimes even hours. Do you know how the examples end? A colleague, a history teacher: I obviously teach without a textbook. The other is outrageous. "And a colleague from the beginning: "In general, I look only at the title of the lesson, multiply materials and dictate facts, if they have to learn from the textbook, nothing will happen. This is the assessment of the teachers for the content and quality of the textbooks, and the evaluation of the children is in the very, very common words............... but I do not understand it................................................................ One of the reasons for the increasing functional illiterateness is this There's a way out! This is a full review of the educational programs and the content of the study.. new textbooks with language understandable and accessible to children, and one textbook by class subject. In this regard, your question from the other day, as a reaction to this thesis, actually reveals your way of thinking. You immediately asked which publishing house would publish them, which means where the money would go for textbooks. They'll be issued by state institutions. The problem of learning content and what our children teach is fundamental to the educational system and the quality of education. He has a solution and it is not what the ruling GERB party has offered us over the past 10 years. The results of the students' training prove it. Change is needed and it will happen! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u95	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Here you are, Mrs. Damyanova, for a speech, outside the agenda of each parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Politics requires two things supposed and responsible. It is quite offensive for so many years for the opposition not to learn that there are sectors about which it is completely unacceptable to speak unprofessionally. There are no election campaigns worth pouring out so many untruths, underestimate efforts, the efforts of so many teachers, scientists, experts, and ignore their work. It is too bad that parliamentary time has been wasted for such speeches. The educational system and textbooks, however, are not GERB's? is not an experimental field for party speaking. Such talk violates citizens' trust. BSP says education would be a priority. But, honourable Members, education is already a priority, and not since yesterday, and not today. Yes, thanks to the endless effort on the part of GERB, the entire majority management to maintain a policy of sustainability for the system. Sorry, it's too flat to talk about a textbook. Too short-sighted, not to say stupid, is to draw quotes from the textbooks to illustrate how bad the educational process was. Who are you kidding with them? Books are public. You should have asked anyone to be a lecturer, such as in Bulgarian language and literature, before, for example, the other day, you had your leader make a public blunder. It's not about the books. The question is what and how to do to have an educated nation. Obviously, we're not going to have this discussion with you. I do not take seriously the claim that the way of education in the age of digital technology, of the generation of In GERB we have always had a clear position and a clear commitment which are our steps towards contemporary education based on Bulgarian traditions. Behind our efforts is the expertise of thousands of professionals in kindergartens, schools, universities. We are fully aware that in order for a trial to happen, it takes a lot. So we supported education with billions of levs and set ourselves the goal of investing in the teacher not only money for decent wages, but also in qualification, professionalism, career development and, above all, freedom to be best for their students. Let's not forget the teachers were on line one last year and still are. They handled a situation completely unknown to the world, so it's never too little and it's not too late to thank them. These teachers are the people who define the policies in education.. not the politicians... we are only defending them. Bulgarian students had insufficient results in international literacy studies and this was indicative that education needs change. Education needs trust, calmness, clear commitments and specific objectives. And if we were listening to you, colleagues on the left, we would still be talking about unfulfilled reforms. Education is changing and, frankly, I am sure that if we have a competition between students and some of our colleagues here on functional literacy, the result will definitely disappoint the latter. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" From your group, yes. "]] Dear MPs, I can recite a long list of the things that have been promised and fulfilled in this sector during the management of GERB and the United Patriarchs. I won't do it. Let me just say this: we have stable foundations for a new modern education from kindergarten to higher schools. We know how to proceed and what we need for this. We have never allowed ourselves to make and propose changes without being convinced that they are wanted and have an understanding of them. We have never wanted anything at all costs, and we have often given a step back when there is an understanding that something is early or that life has set other conditions. In one thing, however, we are uncompromising policy consistency that requires and provides more support for more educated generations. Behind these words are specific policies, new learning plans, more freedom of teachers, more new models, more innovations at school, more modern offices, more sharing of good practices, more new technologies, more independence and choice for children, for students, and their families, more opportunities for better personal and professional qualifications. Finally, please do not use the education for election gum. Don't do anyone any honor. Debates and disputes are very important for specific policies, but politics is detrimental to everyone. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. It is more than clear that this is not an improvisation. You've prepared well, a great strategic move. We move on to parliamentary control. The first question is to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The issue is from the National Representative Sevim Ali on the preparation of a Project and accompanying procedures for surveying the terrain for the construction of the road of the town of Aytos, leading to road III-208 Provadia Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u98	Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Currently, major repairs are being made on road 33 km from the Aytos Pass. The road Sh-208 Provadia is being renovated, which has a very intensive movement, due to the fact that the same section is a major artery serving by citizens and workers of the municipality of Rouen and the municipality of Aytos. The main repair of the road was provided funds from the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014" - 2020 and the investment is worth more than 24,3 million. lv. For the implementation of the project the management of the DPS, the management of the municipality of Rouen and the parliamentary group of DPS insisted and made huge efforts for years because the implementation of the project will improve the transport-service qualities of the road, as well as increase the safety and convenience of travel. However, a serious problem, colleagues, creates the traffic of heavy goods and passenger cars throughout the year, but mostly during the summer season along this road, all traffic passing through the city of Aytos. It's been making the road through town dangerous for years. Dozens of traffic accidents over the years. The last serious traffic accident in this place, which ended with a fatal end, was in the autumn of last year, when on the main road in Aytos TIR lost control and, first, hit a woman crossing a pedestrian path, then cut into a column of 11 cars waiting at the traffic light. As a result of the impact, a SUV is set on fire, and the 28-year-old woman traveling in the backseat, unfortunately, died instantly. Just a day after the unfortunate incident, the mayor of the city offered to build a bypass road to get the movement out of the city and to ensure the safety of the participants in the movement and the residents of the town of Aytos. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: is it intended to be drawn up a bypass project in this year 2021? Are accompanying procedures planned to investigate the terrain and is there any time limit for their completion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u99	Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ali, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Taking traffic out of settlements through the construction of surrounding infrastructure facilities is among the main requirements of the contracting authority, the Road Infrastructure Agency, when preparing a procedure for selecting a designer of road infrastructure projects that are new construction aimed at removing the intensive movement, as traffic safety is our top priority. Each such Project shall be discussed and agreed with all competent institutions as well as with local authorities. Such an investment intention must at least be in line with the General Development Plan of the municipality concerned and with the territorial development plans of the region. At the moment, the Road Infrastructure Agency did not discuss the issue and there was no meeting at which to discuss the issue of building a bypass of the city of Aytos. Aytos Construction Project is currently not included in the Investment Programme 2021. For the construction of such a site, as is the surrounding route of the city of Aytos, a number of preparatory procedures should be undertaken, a selection of an appropriate version from a technical, economic and environmental point of view, where necessary the development of a detailed spatial plan, and the implementation of estranged procedures. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and, in particular, the Agency, we have the desire to discuss any proposal related to the removal of traffic from the city of Aytos, both with the MPs and local authorities, with the municipal administration. Through various funding opportunities, you know that the Agency is making efforts to improve the operational transport status of road III-208 Provadia You mentioned earlier that in 2020 the rehabilitation started more than 33 km from the route that passes through the Aytos Pass, and you also quoted the sum of 24.3 million. lv. The period of implementation of the construction works is 15 months and must be completed by the autumn of 2021. It's split into two lots. In addition, I will inform you that the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning to have homogenization of the pavement to commission the development of a technology project for preventive repair 10 km from road III-208 from the end of Lot 30 to the beginning of the town of Aytos or this is from 82 km to 92 km, which we are planning to rehabilitate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u101	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ali, you have two minutes for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u102	Thank you. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the answer you give me to the question asked by me regarding the design and construction of the road of the city of Aytos to road III-208.................................................................................... By putting this issue to your attention, thus, Dear Minister, I express the concern not only of the residents of the city of Aytos, but also of those users from Burgas, Varna, from the region of Shumen, from all over the country who use this road section daily. We insist that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works should take measures to design and build this road. As you said, after the construction of the road Provadia, it will become even more friendly and will be enjoyed by more people. This means that traffic will be even more intense, as this is the most direct link between Burgas and Varna region and all this traffic will continue to pass through the city of Aytos. God forbid, this is a prerequisite for an accident like this from last year, from September-October, when, unfortunately, a young woman lost her life and six people were injured. Such an important issue must be the attention of all institutions, including the state, as the municipality, as you said, does not have the financial resources to deal with this problem on its own. We therefore insist that the Ministry of Regional Development take urgent measures for design and all co-ordination procedures for the construction of this bypass of the city of Aytos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u103	Would you like to use a hole, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ali, the Road Infrastructure Agency is making efforts to build many bypass roads and taking traffic out of cities. In most cases, we partner with municipalities and in most of the implemented or launched bypass construction activities, municipalities undertake to make the project and to make alienation procedures and to make agreements, API builds the infrastructure. So I make the commitment with the MPs from the region to make such a meeting with the management of the municipality. It must be done with the Road Infrastructure Agency and specify the future steps. By the way, this section is not one of the areas with the concentration of road accidents. I regret and extend my condolences to the relatives of the people who have suffered and lost their lives there. So let us take these steps together with all MPs from the region and local authorities and find a solution to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u105	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That concludes the parliamentary interest in your office. Have a good job! We continue with questions to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. A question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev about the next debt takeover of the Bulgarian Energy Holding in the amount of 109 million. lv. Who's gonna bring it up? Mr. Boychev, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the end of last year it became clear that After that, the Bulgarian Energy Holding took over the obligation of Sofia's "Toplofication" amounting to 109 million. Dear Minister, this is the second time in your term of office. I remind you that in 2018 again the Bulgarian Energy Holding established the obligation of the "Toplofication" to the "Bulgargaz" and then it was 99 million. This is the second case. At the same time, I just want to describe the situation in the company. It is expected to end this year with perhaps about 59 million losses, I am talking about the Sofia Topplofication. 2019 ends with an estimated 80 million loss, 2018. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man $35 million, all at a loss. At the same time, it announced a large-scale investment programme in which only one of the sites intended to build an RDF recovery plant was worth 308 million. Logical questions to you are as follows: how in this state of the Sofia Heat Company will we ensure that this money will be returned to the Bulgarian Energy Holding? The second logical question is: Did you place any conditions for the Sofia Municipality, for the management of the thermal efficiency company, once again taking over its debt for improvement, for more efficient management, because there we were constantly encountering scandals after scandal in the way the company is managed and the special cost part of the company? Finally, I end up with this: how long, Madam Minister, the poor management of Sofia's "Toplofication" and the inability of Sofia Municipality to put control over this company will be a loan to state companies in the energy sector, essentially to all Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u107	You've extended the questions a little bit, Mr. Boychev. Madam Secretary, come in. You have two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, dear Mr. Ermenkov! As you mentioned, Mr. Boychev, with a mission contract of 23 December 2020. "Bulgargaz" sold at nominal value of the Bulgarian Energy Holding its claims from Sofia toplofication in the amount of 109 million. 946 thousand. lv. Just to draw attention to the fact that this type of action does not actually happen for the first time. This practice with regard to the censoring of the claims of the Bulgargaz...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As is known, Bulgargaz is a subsidiary of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, such as BEH as a financial holding company and as such its main role is to ensure the sustainable development and financial stability of its subsidiaries. This, by the way, is clearly regulated in the Commercial Law..................................................................................................... 278, which is respectively transferred and transposed into the Statute of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. On the other hand, under the Energy Act, you know what functions it performs Apart from that, the liquidity of Bulgargaz is key in ensuring the security of supply and fulfilling its licensing obligations. Moreover, Bulgargaz is a country within one another a very important treaty for Bulgaria, which you also know well. It was signed in September 2013 and is a contract between This is the contract on the basis of which Bulgaria will solve in practice its issues related to the diversification of sources of natural gas supply. All these important and specific functions of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, of course, have imposed and motivated the Bulgarian Energy Holding, again I say, as a financial holding company and owner of these companies, to make the relevant decisions. So this is what I can tell you at the moment in terms of these decisions that the Bulgarian Energy Holding has taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u109	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a line, Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! October 2018 we asked the same question and heard almost the same answer. But I'm going to take the liberty of making the same line for you ever since. I quote the shorthand: There is no way we can be satisfied with this answer. The fact that the Bulgarian energy holding company occupies obligations from the Sofia Topplofication against the Bulgarian energy holding company Bulgargaz is a very important and expensive step, bearing in mind the financial situation of BEH, and the fact that the Sofia Toplofication continues to owe hundreds of millions to the Bulgarian energy holding company 500 plus 99, and now 109 more. Instead of having some scheme under which this debt will be paid, not just interest, you decide to load the BEH with another 100 million then. Madam Minister, the question we have asked is an element of our concern for the national security of the country whose element is energy security. It is clear to all of us that the total power of Sofia Topplofication is equal to one of the nuclear units of Kozloduy NPP and there is no way for this energy system to function without Sofia Toplofication. However, what you are currently doing with the periodic buying-in of the debts of the "Topplofication" to the "Bulgargaz" will at some point lead to a state in which the Lord is coming will not be able to settle the debts of the "Topplofication" to the state. You will be forced by the circumstances, by the fact that the Toplofication Sofia is to work, that it should be held back. We told you then, because there is no other way in which things can be resolved in the way that the Toplofication is working. Madam Minister, that's what we told you then. Unfortunately, I have nothing more to add than what I said two years ago. The pity is that after more than two years nothing has changed in the relations state Madam Minister, I ask you very much, if you are to become the owner of the Sofia Topplofication, do it quickly, at least to know who is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u111	Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I agree with you that the country's electricity system could not function normally without it, and I am glad that you said it from this tribune. "Toplofication Sofia" is not usually a trading company. It has its important public obligations that it performs, and you know that very well. As I also mentioned in my reply, this whole policy regarding the censoring of claims from the Sofia Top-of-facturer of the Bulgargaz is dating back a long time since 2002. But since you mentioned that this is how the Bulgarian Energy Holding is burdened, I want to tell you the following. First of all, our communication with the Sofia Topplofication is almost continuous, we are looking for a solution and I am sure that one will be found. However, as for how we burden the Bulgarian Energy Holding, I will only afford a few numbers, which are obvious, they are clear from the reports of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. 2014 BEH is at a loss 247 million, currently BEH is at a profit for 2020 of 295 million. lv. The money of the Bulgarian Energy Holding 2014 when we arrived was 399 million. lv. Now these funds are nearly a billion and a half dollars available. So the facts speak for themselves, and our dialogue with "Topplofication" continues and I am sure that we will find the best solution for both companies because they are really important, structural and of great public importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u113	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is again the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev on the procedures for the search and study of the presence of natural gas. Mr. Boychev, come on in. There's a map here. Maybe it's yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u114	He's here because we only ask questions, but at the end of the term he is, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will ask my question seriously. I will not recall the Prime Minister's statements from the beginning of the term, as he said we should already be a country that will export natural gas, given the huge discoveries that have been made. But I think the parliamentary tribune allows me that kind of talk about it. Madam Minister, the safest way to ensure energy security is to have and provide its own production of energy sources. In this case, I am talking about natural gas. I believe that it is quite normal and quite natural for the Bulgarian government to stimulate the interest of all potential investors to conduct and study the presence of natural gas in Bulgaria. Moreover, you know, in the territorial waters of both the Republic of Turkey and Romania there were deposits with potential for exploitation. In this regard, our questions to you are as follows: what procedures have been prepared and conducted in the framework of this mandate and what are the results of these procedures at present? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u115	Thank you, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u116	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Boychev, Dear Mr. Ermenkov! Guaranteeing the country's energy security by continuing research in the deep Black Sea is one of the priorities in the government's management programme. In this regard, the government took a series of steps to support research in the Bulgarian territorial waters of the Black Sea. The Treaty on the Search and Explorement of Oil and Natural Gas in the Area of Block 1? 21 Han Asparuh?, located in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Black Sea, has been in force since 14 September 2012 and is for a period of five years. By Decision No 166 of 16 March 2018, the Council of Ministers extended the authorisation to search and explore underground riches in that area for two years from 27 January 2018. This extension, just to say, is initiated by companies seeking and exploring in the deep Black Sea. Subsequently, by Decision No 391 of the Council of Ministers of 16 June 2020, the authorisation period has been extended by two more years, with effect from 15 May 2020. Currently, the contract for the search and exploration of the underground wealth for the area of Block 1 "21 Han Asparuh" is in force until 15 May 2022 with all the extensions that the holders of the search and survey authorisation have requested and the government has therefore taken these decisions. By Decision No 814 of 16 October 2015, the Council of Ministers granted permission for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas for a period of five years in the area of Block 1 To date, the name of the block is A contract has been signed in implementation of the quoted decision, which has been in force since 7 July 2016. In area.Block 1.. 14 Khan Kubrat is continuing the search and research activities provided for in the overall work project and in the annual work project for 2021, namely processing and interpretation of the data obtained during the first exploration of the area. Depending on the results obtained, authorisation holders shall have the possibility to state the first 2-year extension of the authorisation granted as the contract expires in 2021. Decision No 485 of the Council of Ministers of 6 August 2019 opened proceedings for the granting of an authorisation for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas in the area of Block 1 On the basis of art. 44, para. 5 of the Law on Underground Treasures, cited the decision of the Council of Ministers is promulgated in the Official Journal. 64 of 2019, as well as in the Official Journal of the European Union of 30 March 2020. Within the specified time limit laid down by point (b) of paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 of the Decision no competition papers were purchased, therefore on the basis of art. 50a, t. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures was drawn up a draft decision of the Council of Ministers to terminate the procedure and a preliminary preparation was made for the adoption of a decision of the Council of Ministers to open a new search and survey procedure in. As you can see, the government has taken absolutely all the action so as to support demand and exploration in the deep Black Sea, because we deeply believe that the greatest security in terms of supply is precisely that if we manage to prove that there are such stocks in our country to guarantee the extraction of both oil and natural gas. But, of course, these are things that do not depend specifically on the government. What the government can do, it does so through its support and decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u117	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me remind you that your most important priority in the 2017 Management Programme was energy security through its own extraction, continuing to study the deep Black Sea by carrying out a search and survey procedure for Currently, Bulgaria barely has its own gas production. For the entire period of four years, this government has delayed the competition for Block Teres by more than two years. Then you organized it so that no interest was shown, as you yourself said, and you stopped it, even though both in Romania and Turkey were opening gas fields, only we somehow failed to find them. You mentioned Block Khan Asparuh. We remember the ecstatic prime minister who in promised to become a kind of gas giant in natural gas extraction from there. Yeah, well, we hear your efforts, but they're kind of stuffing on the spot, there's no result, there's no procedures that have been done, you don't do anything to promote these studies. In fact, in a nutshell, the priority that I have just read to you has not been fulfilled and we may have to find again that these four years have been zero in terms of the results of the research on own gas in the Black Sea shelf, including on the territory of Bulgaria. I will not remind you that we have already had a question about how and how you are moving the procedures, as a result of which one of the investors has finally received permission to investigate. This can't be politics. We're sitting here, dropping documents, preparing documents so no one buys them, and we're waiting for someone to come and pay attention to us! Politics is active. Politics is conducted in a way that investors should be interested in, not in a way that you do and in which you instigate them. I want you to tell me in your duplicate what specific result we have in Block Khan Asparuh in other studies as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u120	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Ermenkov, Dear Mr. Boychev! I am so encouraged by your enthusiasm, but I would like to make one clarification. The first search and survey procedure for the deep Black Sea, as it became clear from the answer, was launched in 2012. So all that was done in this area is due to the government of the Political Party GERB in its various mandates. I don't recall any other governments starting this kind of procedure. I thank you for having also supported this priority of ours relating to the search and exploration in the deep Black Sea, but as it has already become clear, we have done everything we need so that this search and study process can develop as well as we can support it. And what will come out of demand and exploration in the deep Black Sea, I hope you don't blame the government for what supplies and deposits can be found at the bottom of the deep Black Sea. This is the commitment of companies that search and explore.. when they have concrete results, there is a contract and on the basis of the contract they will inform us accordingly about what they have found. The government is doing everything that is necessary, and the governments of Prime Minister Borisov have launched this process. I think you can't deny that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u121	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And the last question to the Minister of Energy is from the MP Desislava Todorova on projects of the Electricity System Operator. Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u122	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Madam Minister, the Power System operator implements the single operational coordination and management of the electricity system of the Republic of Bulgaria, ensures the operation, maintenance and reliable functioning of the power grid, is responsible for the joint operation of the electricity system with the electricity systems of other countries and works to unite electricity markets in the region. The electricity system operator is working on the implementation of five projects that have received the status of projects of common European interest under Regulation 347/2013 for the construction of trans-European infrastructure. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: what is the progress in the implementation of projects of common interest implemented by the Electricity System Operator and at what stage is the process of unification of electricity markets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u124	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Todorova! The electricity system operator implements five projects of common European interest to build 465 km of new electricity lines 400 kilovolts and expand four substations in the country at a total investment value of 490 million. lv. For the implementation of the projects the company attracted 180 million. lv. European Connecting Europe Facility grants and 30 million lv. from the International Fund of Kozloduy. Two of the projects of common European interest for the construction of the internal 400-kilovolt power lines between Substation "Maritsa East" and Substation "Burgas" and from Substation "Maritsa East" to the open-air system of "TPP Maritsa Iztok 3" have already been completed and procedures are currently under way for their entry into service. The construction of the other two internal power lines is also at an advanced stage of implementation. By the end of January this year 60% of the construction and installation works on the project for the construction of the 400-kilovolt power line between Substation Plovdiv. In the final stage is the construction of the 86km power line of 400 kilovolts, connecting Substation "Varna" with Substation "Burgas." 95% of the construction and installation works on the project are finalized and in mid 2021 it is expected to be put into operation. The fifth project of common European interest implemented by the ESO is the 400-kilovolt electricity pipeline between the Substation of Maritsa East in Bulgaria and the Substation of Nea Santas in Greece. It is 122 km long on Bulgarian territory and 29 km in Greek territory. The construction of the Bulgarian section began in March 2020, and at a time more than 50% of the construction and installation works on the electricity line were completed, and the facilities for its accession to Substation Maritsa East are fully completed. Its entry into service is planned for 2022. With regard to your market union issue, intensive work is being done in this direction. As you know, in November 2019 successful unification of electricity markets was achieved at the Bulgarian-Romanian border in the time segment within the day. At the end of 2021 it is expected to start a real work and market unification within the day of the Bulgarian-Greek border. The "Day forward" segment is actively working on three projects for market integration. The project for market union in the "Day forward" segment between Bulgaria and Greece, which is expected to be put into real work in May this year. The project is already in the final phase of development. A project for market unification between Bulgaria and Romania, which is expected to start real work in August 2021. Currently the participating transmission and market operators are in the process of preparing a detailed plan for testing the system. And the Market Unification Project between Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia is expected to be introduced into real work at the earliest in the first quarter of 2022. As you can see, these are projects of great importance for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian electricity system. They are also directly related to ensuring the security of the supply of electricity to Bulgarian consumers and to integrate Bulgaria into the common European market as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-12.u125	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line? You won't have, I guess the answer was comprehensive enough. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: "The Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski" of a question by the National Representative Krum Zarkov; The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova of four questions from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov "two questions, and Zhelyo Boychev "two questions; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova answered two questions in writing by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; Mr. Kostadin Angelov, Minister of Health Mr. Georgi Yordanov, Mr. Ilian Timchev and Mr. Desisslav Taskov, Mr. Rumen Georgiev and Mr. Ivan Ibrishimov; three questions with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Mr. Ilian Timchev and Mr. Desisslav Taskov; Nigyar Jaffer; Desisslav Taskov, Mr. Dimitar Danchev and Mr. Georgi Yordanov; "The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva" of a question by the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov; Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, one question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. For lack of respectable reasons of the National Representative Georgi Gokov his question is postponed to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. Before closing the meeting, I wish all colleagues and the entire Bulgarian people a cheerful, dignified and solemn welcome to one of the oldest traditional holidays of Bulgaria Trifon Zarezan on February 14th! Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
