ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please, registration mode. Mrs. Angelkova, good morning!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u2	Here. Good morning!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u3	We find you already in good health.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u4	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u5	We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Registered 122 in the hall plus 1 remote becomes 123. The necessary number for decision-making in this House is 62 MPs. I will first read you the proposal of the National Assembly for 24 February 2021: "1." Draft decision on the work of the National Assembly in March 2021. Importers. sandar Nenkov and Krasimir Tzipov on 23 February 2021. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 28 September 2020. Adopted in first vote on 23 October 2020. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. 4. First vote on the Bill of Supplements to the Civil Procedure Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 21 January 2021 5. Report on the Commission's activities on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2020. Importer "The Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property" on 8 February 2021. Point 1 for Thursday 25 February 2021 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 30 December 2020. Adopted in first vote on 28 January 2021. Point 2 for Thursday 25 February 2021 7. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Health Insurance Act. Importers supplied on 3 February 2021 by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. Adopted in the first vote on 12 February 2021. Point 3 for Thursday 25 February 2021 At the decision of the Conference of Presidents, we move points 8 and 9, and the programme takes the following form: 8. Second vote on the Industrial Parks Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 13 August 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 2 December 2020. Point 4 for Thursday 25 February 2021 9. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 29 December 2020. Adopted in first vote on 20 January 2021. Point 5 for Thursday 25 February 2021 10. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 3 February 2021 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Importers. "Vezhdi Rashidov and Toma Bikov, on 17 February 2021. 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 18 February 2021 13. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 18 January 2021. Adopted in first vote on 4 February 2021. 14. Hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Bulgaria's readiness to present to the European Commission the final version of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability and the preparation phase of the Partnership Agreement for the programming period 2021 - 2027 and of the operational programmes to be financed by the Cohesion and Structural Funds of the European Union during the programming period 2021 - 2027. 15. Second vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. A joint draft, drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the draft laws adopted at the first vote on 29 October 2020, adopted by the Council of Ministers, on 8 October 2019; Jordan Tsonev and a group of MPs, on 20 March 2020; the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2020. Point 1 for Friday 26 February 2021 16. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 30 July 2020. Adopted in first vote on 2 October 2020. Point 2 for Friday 26 February 2021 17. Parliamentary control after the legislative part of the meeting was concluded on Friday 26 February 2021. Mr. Ivanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u6	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am doing a roll call check procedure in light of the forthcoming vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- here Angel Iliev Isaev- here Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- here Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- here Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Горги Александров Александров- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- here Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova (via the Internet) video conference platform)- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Mikhaylov Savov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here There's a quorum. We will proceed with the hearing. I put to the vote the draft of the National Assembly's work programme for February 24th. Mrs. Angelkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u9	Thank you. Vote 134 MPs in the House plus 1 remote become 135: for 104 plus 1 remote becomes 105, against 2, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u10	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Today, for another week, we are witnessing how our proposals for a change in the Election Code concerning transparent and fair elections have again found no place on the National Assembly's agenda. They have not been able to find a place on the agenda of the Legal Commission for more than a month. Unserious are the justifications that more than a month have been waiting for the opinions of the different institutions. Many times we have witnessed your bills, which are submitted on Tuesdays, for example, and on Wednesdays they are already the banks of the MPs. Please take this thing back into consideration. Let this bill be put on the agenda of the National Assembly. It is necessary in view of the upcoming elections, given the honesty of the upcoming elections. We offer video surveillance when counting the ballots and applying the results in the protocol. You know, we've all witnessed what speculations, how many wronged protocols in the coverage of the ballots themselves in the minutes of the respective section election committees, how it happens. Why do our proposals concerning the Election Code again find no place on the National Assembly's agenda? We see a long agenda, but the Election Code, submitted by the BSP, aimed at lighting and transparency in the upcoming elections, never found the time and place to insert it into the National Assembly Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 17 to 23 February 2021: Bill amending and supplementing the BTA Act. Importers are Vejdi Rashidov and Toma Bikov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Distributed to the Defence Committee; Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the control of public spending related to overcoming the consequences of the distribution of COVID-19 and the Draft Resolution on the Report. Importer is the Temporary Commission for control of the costs of public funds related to overcoming the consequences of the spread of COVID-19; Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Foreign Policy shall lead; Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Health, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Posting of Employees between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs; A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Budget and Finance; Draft decision on the work of the National Assembly in March 2021. The importer are Alexander Nenkov and Krasimir Tzipov. Application by the MP Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov. On the basis of art. 15, para. 3 in connection with para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Madam President of the Political Party Group GERB, I hereby inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB and declaring myself a non-Party MP, non-member of a parliamentary group. Respectfully: Vladislav Nikolov Messages: The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in the implementation of a bilateral legal framework in the field of military cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia, a major planning conference will be held between 1 and 4 March 2021 to organise the preparation and planning of activities for joint combat shootings with the formation of the Republic of Serbia of the Zenite Polygon of the Air Force in 2021. By his order, he authorised the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of non-military aviation equipment and personnel from the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia, including engineering and technical staff with equipment, equipment without equipment for providing technical assistance, removal of equipment from the Air Force of the Republic of Serbia. The joint combat shootings with the formation of the Republic of Serbia's air force on the zenite range of the Air Force in 2021 are not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as activities to prevent military activities conducted by another (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 18 February 2021, with entry No 103-09-08, and was made available to the Defence Committee. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT DECISION ON THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION IN MARCH 2021 Importers are Alexander Nenkov and Krasimir Tzipov on 23 February 2021. Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! May I have your attention, please? Project! DECISION for the work of the National Assembly in March 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 74, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the election campaign for the 40th National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The National Assembly shall not hold regular plenary meetings between 8 and 24 March 2021 inclusive. If necessary, extraordinary meetings shall be convened in accordance with art. 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. In the period referred to in point (a) of this paragraph, the following conditions shall apply: 1 Parliamentary control shall be carried out through written answers to questions and questions. 3. In the period referred to in point (a) of this paragraph, the following conditions shall apply: 1 Members of the National Assembly shall use official transport and shall be recognised only as transport costs for participation in extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly and parliamentary committees. 4. The last plenary session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly will take place on 25 March 2021 at 10:00 on the following agenda: Member of the Commission. - Madam President, we believe that in this way we will arrange for the possibility to work the National Assembly until the end of its term of office until 25 March 2021, giving, of course, and the possibility to convene extraordinary meetings if necessary in accordance with art. 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any desire to make a statement. I put to the vote the draft decision on the work of the National Assembly in March 2021, which Mr. Tsypov read a short time ago. They voted 150 MPs: 109, against 1, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS. Mr. Letifov, please report to point two.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u14	Madam President, if you'll allow me a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2. Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u15	Please vote on the procedure for admission in this Chamber. 135 MPs voted: 125, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u16	The Law on Electronic Communications is amended and supplemented by the Law on Electronic Communications. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." by the Ministry of Defence, by the Ministry of Interior, by the State Agency of National Security (National Security Agency), by the State Agency of Intelligence and by the State Agency of Technical Operations (IAC), as well as with regard to the internal distribution of frequencies and the identification of call signs for their service radio communications; 2. A t is created. 3: "3." by state authorities and local self-government bodies and their administrations, state enterprises, emergency medical centres, state and municipal medical institutions, strategic sites of national security importance and voluntary formations under the Law on the Protection of Disasters in cases where they are incorporated into the National System for the provision of a single communication environment for interaction between the state structures of the Republic of Bulgaria in the protection of public order, against crime and protection of the population in the event of disasters and accidents................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4: ............................................ Article 5 is amended as follows: Art. 5. In applying this law, state authorities shall respect the principles of legality, impartiality, objectivity, predictability, transparency, publicity, advisory, equality, proportionality, neutrality in relation to networks and services and the reduction of regulatory intervention to the minimum necessary. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6 and shall replace the word "the legislation' with the reference. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Council participates as members representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Interior, State Agency 2. In para. 2 the words "one of the representatives" shall be replaced by "serviceman." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "uses' is added "for short-term events'. 2. In para. 2 after the word "Securities" is added. 1.................................................................................. 3. A new para is being created. 3: The Council shall adopt a decision on the use of radio frequencies and radio frequency bands of the radio spectrum designated for national security for radio equipment of foreign neighbouring countries for the purpose of cross-border mutual control and cooperation, where this results from international obligations undertaken by the Republic of Bulgaria. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: (4) Outside the cases referred to in para. 1 and 3, where authorisation to use radio frequency spectrum is required for electronic communications under this law, the embassies of foreign countries or the representations of international organisations shall apply for the use of radio frequency spectrum to the Communications Regulation Commission which: 1. issue the relevant authorisation; 2. collects the determined fees unless otherwise provided for in an international act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, i.e. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." provide electronic distress management messages within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Disasters, in the event of a declaration of martial law, a state of war or an emergency within the meaning of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as in the declaration of an emergency within the meaning of the Law on Countering Terrorism; The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 12 and the words of the Council of Ministers are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 4 Finally, the European Union law defines the powers and obligations of national regulatory or other competent authorities in the field of electronic communications. Under § 15 there is a proposal from Vejdi Rashidov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." with a higher education with a minimum degree of education and qualification, Master and Master; (b) To be created t. 4. "4." with an established reputation and professional experience of not less than 10 years, of which at least 5 years in the field of electronic communications, postal services, media, information technology, law or economics. 2. A new para is being created. 6: The President, the Vice-President and the members of the Committee shall be appointed following an open and transparent selection procedure. 3. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u17	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the texts reported so far by Mr. Letifov with the text of the importer on the name of the Law. They voted 107 MPs: 84, none, abstention 23. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u18	Under § 16 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 16. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 para. 2 is amended as 2 The members of the committee shall not take any other paid position or carry out any other paid activity except in the case of participation in international projects and programmes relating to the activity of the committee, scientific, teaching or the exercise of property rights regulated by the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the words "Manufacturer defining the device" shall be replaced by the Rules of Procedure determining the activity. 2. A new para is being created. 4. (4) The Director-General of the Committee may be assisted by the Deputy Director-General. Under § 20, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 20. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) c. 6 the word "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied', continues, amends or revokes measures and obligations in relation to "supplied'; (b) c. 7 the words "the number, addresses and names' shall be replaced by "the number resources'; (c) c. 10 the word "stop' is deleted and the words "determined' are deleted; (d) a new item shall be created. 11: "11." register and delete registrations for the use of radio frequency spectrum; (e) the current t. 11 is going to be a t. 12 and in it the words..................................................................................... (f) the current t. 12 is going to be t. 13 and in it, the word "stop' shall be deleted and the words "the permissions to use an individually assigned limited resource for carrying out electronic communications by means of available and/or new messages' shall be replaced by the permissions to use a radio frequency spectrum of "the system'; (g) the current t. 13 becomes t. 14 and in it the words "show and television programmes" shall be deleted; (h) the current t. 14 becomes t. 15; (i) the current t. 15 is going to be t. 16 and in it, after the word "Presents', the words "numbers, addresses and names' are replaced by "numbering resources'; k) the current t. 16 is going to be t. 17 and amended as follows: Seventeen. controls the use of national numbering resources; (l) the current t. 17 becomes t. 18 and in it the words "the numbers, addresses and names' shall be replaced by "the numbers'; m) the current t. 18 becomes t. 19 and in it the words............................................ are deleted; n) Previously on N. 19 and 20 become respectively. 20 and 21; (o) the current t. 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is equal to 21 is "22." ensure compliance with the requirements for maintaining the integrity of public electronic communications networks and for security of public electronic communications networks and services and investigate cases of non-compliance with security requirements for public electronic communications networks and services, as well as their impact on the security of networks and services, and cooperate with the competent authorities under art. 244a, para. 3; (d) p) the current t. 22 becomes t. 23; p) the current t. 23 becomes t. 24 and in it the word "waters" shall be replaced by "created and maintained." (c) the so-called t. 24 and 25 become t. 25 and 26; (t) the current t. 26 is going to be t. 27 and amended as follows: "27." contribute to the protection of the rights of end-users in the electronic communications sector in coordination with other competent authorities and examine complaints by end-users in the cases provided for in this law; y) are created t. 28 and 29: It's 28. determine the location of the end point of the network for the purpose of regulating electronic communications networks and services; 29. approve for the purposes of the application of Art. 29. 4 paragraph 4 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 laying down measures concerning access to open internet and retail prices for regulated communications within the EU and amending Directive 2002/22/EC and Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 (OB, L 310/1 of 26 November 2015) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2015/2120', a mechanism for monitoring the performance of the Internet access service on speed or other quality of service parameters; the mechanism shall be developed and maintained by the Commission or by a third party and shall enable end-users to measure the performance of the Internet access service on speed or other quality of service parameters. 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) When exercising its powers under this law, the Commission shall take the utmost account of the guidelines, opinions, recommendations, common positions, good practices and methodologies adopted by the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications together with national and local specificities in the sector. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. Under § 22, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 22. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) the text before t. 1 shall be amended as follows:.... has the following powers relating to the management of the civil radio spectrum, geostationary orbit positions with the relevant radio spectrum and radio spectrum used by a non-geostationary system:.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) c. 2 after the word "supplied' the terms for the use of the radio spectrum, including the word "supplied' shall be added and the word "supplied' shall be replaced by "spatters'; (c) c. 3 after the word "supplied" is added to the "supplied" and "supplied"; (d) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. carry out the designation and international coordination and registration in international electronic communications organisations of geostationary orbit positions with the relevant spectrum and radio spectrum used by a non-geostationary satellite system, informing the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications thereof; (e) c. 6 the words "tested and issued' shall be replaced by "tested, issued and withdrawn'; (f) c. 7 the words "effective use' shall be replaced by "the' and "the words '/or "the' shall be replaced by "the'; (g) c. 9 the words for use shall be replaced by the words for use shall be replaced by the words for use shall be replaced by the words for use shall be replaced (h) point 12 is amended as follows: ..12. with a view to the public interest on its own initiative or on the initiative of an electronic communications undertaking concerned, may allocate the free limited resource spectrum, geostationary orbit positions with the relevant spectrum assigned to the Republic of Bulgaria under international agreements, as well as the radio spectrum used by a non-geostationary satellite system to be used for the provision of electronic communications networks and/or public or private services; (i) point 13 is amended as follows: "13." on its own initiative or on the initiative of a person concerned, a procedure may be initiated to declare, international coordination and registration of radio spectrum, geostationary orbit position with the relevant spectrum and spectrum used by a non-geostationary satellite system, in accordance with the rules of international electronic communications organisations. 2. The creation of para. 2: . (2) The activities under para. 1, t. 6 shall be carried out by officials empowered by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, i.e. The words "the text" shall be replaced by the text before the words "the text" are replaced by the words "the text" before the words "the text" are replaced by the words "the text." 1.................................................................................. Under § 24, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 24. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 24: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 33a: Art. 33a. (1) The Commission shall delete a person from the register under art. 33, para. 1, t. 1 in the following cases: 1. upon notification under art. 76; 2. in the event of the death of the natural person, termination of the legal person or termination of the business of the sole trader; 3. if the person concerned is subject to registration in the trade register and the register of non-profit legal entities and does not appear in the same; 4. if for the previous 3 calendar years a person who is entered in the register under art. 33, para. 1, t. 1 as carrying out electronic communications only on the basis of a notified notification, did not provide the Commission with annual activity reports relating to art. 38, para. 1; 5. if there are any of the above circumstances in respect of a foreign person entitled to operate in the provision of electronic communications networks or services in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 6. in the cases referred to in art. 78, para. 3. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. In addition to the death of the natural person, the Commission shall adopt a list of the persons concerned, which shall be published on the Commission's website. The persons included in the list shall be informed of the impending deletion from the register under art. 33, para. 1, t. 1 and for the specific grounds and reasons and a period of opinion shall be given to them, not less than 30 days from receipt of the notification. (3) After the expiry of the term under para. 2 The Commission shall rule by decision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, i.e. 2 the word "instructions' is replaced by "instructions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30. Under § 31 there is a proposal received by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 31. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 The Commission may require information relating to the implementation of this law and its implementing regulations, the rights of use or the obligations imposed under this law. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The Commission may address to undertakings providing electronic communications networks or services, adjoining facilities or services, justified written requests for information in the relevant volume, time and details necessary for the performance of its regulatory functions or necessary to the Authority of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications, including: financial information; information on future developments in networks or services which may have an impact on the wholesale services provided by them to competitors; accounting data on wholesale markets by undertakings having a significant impact on the wholesale market; information on their electronic communications networks or transmission facilities, which is detailed at local level and sufficiently detailed to enable the geographical examination under art. 181a and the definition of the areas according to art. 181b. (3) The Commission shall state the reasons and objectives for which the information is sought in the reasons for the request under para. 1 and 2. The request must be proportionate and objectively justified for the following purposes: 1. systematic or targeted verification of: (a) the payment of administrative fees and/or charges for the use of a limited resource; (b) the effective and efficient use of a limited resource; (c) compliance with the obligations imposed under this law; 2. a target check for compliance with the requirements of art. 73, as well as the conditions and obligations under art. 85, para. Art. 11, art. 106, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 107, para. 2, where a complaint has been received, or at the initiative of the Commission; 3. carrying out procedures for examining and evaluating a request for granting an individual right to use a limited resource; 4. publishing comparative reviews of the quality and prices of services for the benefit of consumers; 5. clearly defined statistical needs, reports or studies; 6. analysis of the relevant market, including data on downstream markets or retail markets adjacent to or related to markets subject to market analysis; 7. ensuring efficient use and efficient management of radio spectrum and numbering resources; 8. assessing the future development of networks or services that could affect the wholesale services provided to competitors, the territorial scope, the connectivity for end-users or the definition of the areas under art. 181b; 9. carrying out geographical studies; 10. providing a response to reasoned requests for information by the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: (4) The information for the purposes of para. 3, p. One, two, four, 10 may not be required before or as a condition for market access. 4. Previously on AMC's... 3 " 5" becomes respectively. 5 " 7 " and everywhere in them after the words "al. The following shall be added to the list: 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 8 and in it, after the words "the Commission of the European Communities" is added "The European Regulators in the field of electronic communications" and after the words "the Commission of the Member States of the European Union" is added "the European Regulators in the field of electronic communications" and after the words "the Commission of the Member States of the European Union" is added "the Commission of the European Communities" or "the European Parliament of the European Union." 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 9 and amended as follows: If the information referred to in para. 1 and 2, including those collected in the conduct of a geographical survey, shall be made available to the European Commission, the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications or to other bodies, including regulatory or other competent authorities of Member States of the European Union, the Commission shall require recipients to comply with commercial secrecy under para. 6. Commercial secrecy shall not prevent timely exchange of information for the purposes of the review, monitoring and control of the application of the law and applicable European Union law. 7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 10 and in it after the words "al." The Commission shall be added by the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications and, after the words of a regulatory authority, by the European Body of Regulators in the field of electronic communications and after the words of a regulatory authority, by the other competent authority, shall be added. 8. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 11 and in it after the words. In the case of a Member State or a Member State, a Member State or a Member State, or a Member State, or a Member State, or a Member State, or a Member State, or a Member State, or a Member State, or a Member State, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, Member State, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, Member State or a third country, or a third country, or a third country, Member State, or a Member State, or a Member State, or a third country, Member 9. They're creating an al. 12 "Seventeen: Where the information collected in accordance with para. 1 and 2 is insufficient to enable the Commission and the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications to carry out their regulatory tasks, this information may be requested from other undertakings whose activity is in the field of electronic communications or in closely related sectors. (13) The Commission may receive information from the Single Information Point under art. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. (14) The information available to the Commission may also be provided to the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications or to another body, including a regulatory or other competent authority of a Member State of the European Union, following a reasoned request and under the conditions of para. 9 and 10, where necessary, in order for the authority concerned to carry out the duties assigned to it. (15) The request for information may be made on a template developed by the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications in order to facilitate the processing, analysis and presentation of such information. (16) Information under para. 2 as regards rights of use of radio spectrum shall include data on the efficient and efficient use of radio spectrum and the performance of coverage obligations, the quality of services relating to its rights of use and control. (17) The information requested by the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications under art. 40 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1971 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 establishing the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC) and the Agency for the Support of BEREC (the BEREC Office), amending Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009 (OB, L 321/1 of 17 December 2018) and is submitted to the committee, not re-supplied by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u19	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I put to the vote the texts which Mr. Letifov read from § 16 to the version of § 31 of the Importer Report, including § 31. Vote 85 MPs: 64, none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u20	Thank you. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "sends', the word "sends' shall be added at the same time; (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the draft decision relates to the powers of the Committee on Art. 30, para. 1, t. 1. "4" or falls within the scope of art. 152, 154 "157a," 160 "160c," 163, 166 or 221, and. 2. The creation of para. 5. In cases where obligations under an international contract are fulfilled, the procedure under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36. Under § 37 there is a proposal received by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 37. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ Article 3 is replaced by the following: 42d: Art. 42 C.E. When providing the draft decision under art. 42 of the European Commission, the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications and of the regulatory authorities of the Member States of the European Union, the Commission shall take into account the recommendations or guidelines of the European Commission, which shall determine the form, content and extent of detail, the circumstances under which notification is not required, as well as the determination of time limits. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission may entrust obligations for the transmission of certain radio and television programmes and related additional services, including accessibility services for users with disabilities, and data transmission services supporting connected television and electronic programming guides to undertakings providing electronic communications networks and broadcasting services, where such networks and services are used by a significant number of end-users as a primary means of receiving radio and television programmes. 2. A new para is being created. 2: (2) The obligations under para. 1 shall be proportionate and transparent and imposed only where necessary for the achievement of objectives of common interest. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5 and in them the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it the words of the imposed obligations under para. The following shall be replaced by the following: 1, 3 and 4 obligations for the transmission of certain radio and television programmes The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, with the words "Art." The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend this Regulation in respect of the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of Under § 46, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 46. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 53 is amended as follows: Art. 53 (1) In the event of a difference between the total amount of administrative fees collected and the administrative costs of the Commission, the Commission shall propose to the Council of Ministers an amendment of the tariff under art. 147 on the amount of the administrative control fee. (2) The Commission shall annually carry out an analysis of the need to review the tariff under art. 147 and conducts public consultations in accordance with art. 37. (3) The Commission, depending on the results of the analysis under para. 2, may propose to the Council of Ministers to adopt an amendment or supplement of the tariff under Article 2. 147. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission shall cooperate or give binding instructions in the event of a dispute arising in connection with existing obligations under this law between undertakings providing electronic communications networks or services, or between such undertakings and undertakings benefiting from obligations imposed on access or interconnection, or between undertakings providing electronic communications networks or services, and providers of transmission facilities, where one of the parties concerned has made a written request. 2. In para. 2 words and a document for a fee paid for administrative services in cases where mandatory instructions are requested from the committee. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48. Under § 49, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 49. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 5 is canceled. 2. In para. 6 after the words "Regulation bodies"... is added when the dispute concerns trade between Member States of the European Union................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3. In para. 7 the words......................................................................................................... 4. In para. 8 after the words the opportunity for the EU is added, and the words "emergency measures" shall be replaced by "temporary measures," at the request of the Parties or on their own initiative, in order to protect competition or the interests of end-users. 5. In para. 10 words, if any, as well as the position, shall be replaced by the position, as well as the opinion. 6. A new para is being created. 11: . (11) The opinion of the Committee on the request made under para. 1 shall be adopted within one month of the adoption of the opinion of the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications. 7. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 12. 8. The creation of para. 13: "In spite of what has been taken in accordance with para. 1 " 4 and 6 " 12 actions each of the parties may refer to the competent court for the settlement of the dispute in a court of law. " The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 50, and the words "Create" shall be created. Art. 62a (a) shall be replaced by "In chapter four, Section VIII shall be created. 62 a.m. Under § 51, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 51. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 The Debt under para. 1, t. 1 shall not apply 1 shall not apply. 2. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: s (3) Where undertakings providing public electronic communications networks or services are not commercial companies and are not micro, small and medium-sized enterprises under art. 19th para. 2 - 4 of the Accounting Act, their financial statements are drawn up, subject to independent financial audit and published through an economic publication or via the Internet. The audit shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Independent Financial Audit Act and European Union law. (4) The requirements of para. 3 shall also apply to separate accounting under para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54. Under § 55 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 55. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... Article 66 is amended as follows: Art. 66. (1) Public electronic communications networks or services shall be provided after notification to the Commission. (2) Notification shall not be required where: 1. interpersonal communications services without numbers shall be provided; 2. access to a public electronic communications network through a local radio network of undertakings, public sector organisations, non-governmental organisations or end-users for which the provision of such access is not part of an economic activity or is additional to an economic activity or public service which is not dependent on the transmission of signals on those networks. (3) The procedures for the submission of notifications shall be laid down by the Commission in the general requirements of art. 73, para. 1. The Commission shall take into account the guidelines of the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications on the model of notification. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56. Under § 57, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 57. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 57: ...... 57............................................................... Article 67 is amended as follows: Art. 67. (1) The granting of individual rights to use radio frequency spectrum shall be limited to cases where those rights are necessary for the maximum efficient use of radio spectrum in view of demand, taking into account the criteria under para. 2. (2) When determining the mode of use of the spectrum, account shall be taken of: 1. the specific characteristics of the radio frequency spectrum concerned; 2. the need to protect against harmful interference; 3. the establishment of reliable conditions for shared use of radio spectrum, if appropriate; 4. the need to ensure the technical quality of the connection or service; 5. the need to protect the efficient use of radio spectrum; 6. objectives of common interest defined in accordance with European Union law. (3) In determining the mode of use of harmonised spectrum, account shall be taken of the technical implementing measures adopted in accordance with art. 4 of Decision No 676/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on a regulatory framework for radio spectrum policy of the European Community (Radio spectrum Decision) (hereinafter referred to as "Decision No 676/2002/EC') and the need to minimise the problems related to harmful interference. (4) In cases of shared use of radio spectrum based on a combination of the modes under art. 66a, para. 1 The requirements of para 1 shall apply. 3. (5) The possibility of using the radio spectrum on the basis of a combination of the modes under art. 66a, para. 1 shall be considered by the Committee as appropriate, taking into account the likely impact of the different combinations of spectrum use and the gradual transition from one regime to the other on competition, innovation and market entry. (6) The Commission shall apply the most relaxed mode of use of radio spectrum, taking into account technological solutions to manage harmful interference. (7) When making the decisions under para. The Commission may set out conditions for sharing radio spectrum to facilitate the efficient use of spectrum, competition and innovation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u21	Speeches, coworkers, is there? I can't see. I put to the vote the paragraphs 32 to 62 reported by Mr Letifov included. They voted 89 MPs: 69, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u22	Under § 63, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 63. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 63: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 71a: Art. 71a. (1) The authorisation to use a harmonised radio frequency spectrum for wireless broadband services shall be of an initial duration of not less than 15 years, with the possibility of extending for at least 20 years with a view to ensuring predictability in terms of infrastructure investment conditions based on the use of that spectrum. When determining the initial period of authorisation, the Commission shall take into account the requirements of art. 71, para. 3. (2) If necessary to comply with the requirement under para. 1, the Commission shall include under the conditions laid down in Article 1. 106, para. 2, p. 4 possibility to extend the authorisation under the terms and conditions of art. 114a. (3) The extension of the period of authorisation under para. 1 with an initial period of 20 years and an authorisation already extended by the order of art. 114a shall be carried out in accordance with Art. 114a. 1146, unless under the conditions laid down in Article 1146, 106, para. 2, p. 4 is explicitly excluded such an extension. (4) Where an extension of the authorisation under para. The Commission shall conduct public consultations in accordance with Article 1, before the authorisation is granted. 37 within a period of not less than 3 months on the common criteria for the extension of the authorisation relating to: 1. the need to ensure efficient and efficient use of the relevant spectrum; 2. the achievement of wireless broadband coverage on the territory of the country and the population with high quality and speed connections, as well as coverage on the main transport routes at national and European level, including the trans-European transport network as referred to in Regulation (EU) No 1315/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network and repealing Decision No 661/2010/EU (OB, L 348/1 of 20 December 2013). , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 1315/2013'; 3. facilitating the rapid development in the European Union of new wireless technologies and applications, including, if necessary, through a cross-sectoral approach in radio spectrum management; 4. the need to achieve objectives of common interest relating to ensuring the safety of human life, public order, public security or defence; and 5. the need to ensure competition without violations. (5) The Commission may, by reasoned decision, determine a different from the one referred to in para. 1 period in the following cases: 1. in limited geographical areas where access to high-speed networks is seriously difficult or lacking such access, and this is necessary in accordance with the requirements of art. 124, para. 4; 2. for specific short-term projects; 3. for experimental use; 4. for use of radio spectrum, which in accordance with art. 130 may coexist with wireless broadband services, or 5. for alternative use of radio spectrum in accordance with art. 124a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 67: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) An enterprise which has notified the implementation of public electronic communications under art. 66, para. 1 shall comply with common requirements adopted by a decision of the committee. 2. A new para is being created. 2: In determining the general requirements under para. 1 The Commission shall respect the principles of transparency, equality and proportionality. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: . (4) Depending on the type of electronic communications network or service, the applicable general requirements may contain all or some of the following requirements: 1. general conditions for: (a) payment of administrative fees under Chapter Eight; (b) ensuring the protection of personal data and the right to privacy in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 15, Sections II and III; (c) the provision of information to the Commission when submitting and examining a notification pursuant to art. 75, as well as the information referred to in Article 75. 40; (d) the creation of opportunities to intercept electronic communications on a lawful basis by the competent authorities under the conditions of art. 251b-251i, the Personal Data Protection Act and Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) (e) providing conditions for the use of the network or service in relation to communications made by the public authorities to alert the public in the event of immediate threats and to mitigate the consequences of serious emergencies and disasters; (f) providing conditions for the use of the network and its facilities in the event of a declared emergency situation within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Disasters, in the event of a declaration of a state of war, martial law or emergency within the meaning of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as of a declaration of an emergency situation within the meaning of the Law on Countering Terrorism in order to secure communications between emergency services and state authorities; (g) access obligations other than those provided for in art. 106, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 107, para. 2, as well as in Chapters tenth and eleventh; (h) implementation of existing standards or standardisation documents in the field of electronic communications networks and services and associated facilities and services; (i) transparency obligations in order to ensure end-to-end connectivity in accordance with the objectives and principles set out in art. 4 and 5; and, where necessary and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in order to ensure that the Commission has access to the information necessary to verify the accuracy of the disclosure; 2. specific conditions for providing electronic communications networks for: (a) interconnection of networks in accordance with Chapter 10a; (b) obligations for compulsory transport in accordance with art. 49c; (c) measures to protect public health from the harmful effects of electromagnetic fields resulting from the operation of electronic communications networks in accordance with European Union law, taking into account to the maximum extent the requirements for limiting exposure of the population to electromagnetic fields; (d) maintaining the integrity of public electronic communications networks in accordance with the requirements of Section I of Chapter 15, including conditions for preventing electromagnetic interference between electronic communications networks or services in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and Acts implementing it; (e) protection of public networks against unauthorised access to user data and personal data in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 15, Sections II and III, and the Personal Data Protection Act; (f) conditions for the use of radio spectrum in accordance with art. 266 where the use is not subject to the granting of individual rights to use radio spectrum in accordance with art. 67 and 79; 3. specific conditions for the provision of electronic communications services other than interpersonal communications services without numbers for: (a) interoperability of services in accordance with Chapter 10a; (b) accessibility for end-users of national numbering plan numbers, universal international free telephone numbers numbers and, where technically and economically feasible, numbers from numbering plans of other Member States of the European Union and conditions thereof in accordance with Chapter Seven; (c) consumer protection rules specific to the electronic communications sector; (d) restrictions on the transfer of illegal content in accordance with the Ecommerce Act and restrictions on the transmission of harmful content in accordance with the Radio and Television Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "Entrepreneurship" shall be replaced by "Entrepreneurship" and the words "making public electronic communications" shall be replaced by "provides public electronic communications networks or services"; (b) c. 1 the words s/or s are replaced by s or s, and the words.... is necessary to issue an authorisation for the use of individually designated.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (c) c. 2 is finally added under the legislation in force. (d) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." use radio frequency spectrum in connection with electronic communications networks or services by complying with the general requirements under art. 73, the rules of art. 66a, para. 3 and, where applicable, the conditions of authorisation for the use of radio frequency spectrum issued in accordance with this Chapter; (e) a new item shall be created. 4. "4." its requests for the granting of the necessary rights to use numbering resources shall be dealt with under the terms and conditions of this Chapter; (f) the current t. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4. 5 and in it, the words............................................................................................................. (g) the current t. 5 is going to be t. 6 and amended as follows: It's six. receive the possibility to be designated to offer any or all services within the scope of the universal service throughout the territory of the country or part thereof in accordance with Chapter 11. 2. In para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, i.e. 3 words................................................................................. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 33, para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 72: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words.................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 3 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." the individual right to use a limited resource has been revoked. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: . (4) The company under para. 3 may notify the provision of the same electronic communications networks or services only if all irregularities in the activity carried out have been resolved which have been grounds for adopting a decision under para. 3. 4. The creation of para. 7. . (7) At the request of a national regulatory authority or other competent authority of a Member State of the European Union using numbering resources under art. 133, para. 4 proven infringement of the applicable rules on consumer protection or the use of numbering resources of the national law of the Member State concerned of the European Union, the Commission shall apply the conditions laid down in art. 107, para. 2, p. 9, in accordance with its powers, including, in more serious cases, by withdrawing the rights of extra-ternative use of the numbering resources allocated to the undertaking concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u23	Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote: the version of § 63 of the Commission Report and all the texts reported so far; the version of § 72; and the wording of § 63 to § 72 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u24	They voted 85 MPs: 66, none, abstention 19. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u25	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 73, and the words............................... are replaced by................................................................... 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 75. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, i.e. 2 the words in the beginning are added to the register and shall be replaced by the word "Execution" shall be replaced by the "Registration and issue." Under § 77, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 77. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 80a: Art. 80a. (1) When granting, amending or extending the period of individual rights to use radio spectrum, the Commission shall promote effective competition and avoid distortions of competition in the internal market and may take measures such as: 1. limiting the amount of frequency bands for which the undertakings are granted rights to use or, in justified cases, setting conditions for the rights of use when granting them, such as conditions relating to the possibility of imposing obligations to provide wholesale or roaming access in certain frequency bands or certain groups of frequency bands with similar characteristics; 2. maintaining, depending on market conditions, a certain part of a frequency band or group of frequency bands for the provision of new enterprises; 3. refusal to grant new rights to use radio spectrum or to authorise new use of radio spectrum in certain frequency bands, or to lay down conditions for the granting of new rights to use radio spectrum or to authorise new use of radio spectrum in order to avoid distortion of competition due to the provision, transfer or accumulation of rights of use; 4. including conditions for banning or imposing conditions on the transfer of rights to use of radio spectrum which are not subject to control by the European Union or the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to mergers where such transfers are likely to result in significant harm to competition; 5. amendment of existing rights in accordance with this law where necessary for the subsequent removal of distortions of competition due to transfer or accumulation of rights for use of radio spectrum. (2) The Commission shall determine the necessary measures under para. 1 to maintain or ensure effective competition, taking into account market conditions and available reference levels through objective assessment and forecast of market conditions of competition and the possible effects of such measures on existing and future investments by market participants, in particular as regards the deployment of networks. (3) When determining the measures under para. 1 The Commission shall take into account the approach for market analysis under Article 1. 154, para. 3, the principles of advisory, publicity and transparency and comply with the requirements of Sections V and IX and Chapter Six. (4) The measures under para. 1 shall not apply to authorisations for the use of radio frequency spectrum of terrestrial analogue terrestrial communications networks. Under § 78, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 78. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 78: ...... 78............................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the 2. In para. 2: (a) the text before t. 1 shall be amended as follows:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4 and 4a, in the following cases: (b) c. 4 the words supplied to available and/or new analogues shall be deleted; (c) create a t. 6: It's six. to grant individual rights of use of radio spectrum to radio and television operators where necessary to achieve an objective of common interest defined in accordance with European Union law after conducting public consultations pursuant to art. 37. 3. In para. 3 the words "the press for radio or television activity" shall be replaced by "the press issued by the Council for Electronic Media." 4. In para. 4 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 5. The creation of para. 5. The Commission shall grant authorisation to use a geostationary orbit position with the relevant spectrum and a radio frequency spectrum used by a non-geostationary satellite system which are registered in international electronic communications organisations at the initiative of a person without competition or auction. Under § 79, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 79. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 79: ....... 79........................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words The applications for the use of individually defined limited resource shall be replaced by the applications for authorisation for the use of radio frequency spectrum. 2. The creation of para. 3: s (3) registration requests shall be met by providing the radio spectrum for use of the first at the time of the applicant. Under § 80, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 80. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 80: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 83 1 and 2 are amended as follows: 1 Registration and authorisation applications shall start after an application for use of a limited resource on a template. The application shall contain: 1. identification of the person requesting authorisation or registration: (a) for natural persons, the three names and permanent address; (b) for legal persons and sole traders, the company and the relevant identification code; 2. an indication of the required radio frequency spectrum or numbering resources, or a geostationary orbit position with the corresponding frequency spectrum; 3. a brief description of the type of electronic communications; 4. a description of the technical characteristics of the electronic communications network and facilities; 5. a description of the service or services that the person will offer through a limited resource in case it is intended for public electronic communications; 6. time limit for use of limited resource; 7. territorial scope; 8. person and contact details. (2) The application shall be accompanied by: 1. for persons registered in another State, a document for the current registration under national law and a document certifying that the person has not been declared bankrupt or is not in insolvency proceedings issued by the competent authority of the country of the person concerned; 2. a declaration that the sole trader is not in a deletion procedure; 3. a statement by the manager and members of the management bodies of the person that they are not deprived of the right to engage in commercial activity; 4. a declaration of no grounds under art. 3, p. 17 of the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, their controlled persons and their real owners. Under § 81, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 81. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 81: ........ 81...................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84, para. 1, t. 3 (d) (d) the words........................................................................................................ Under § 82, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 82. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 82: ............................................................................... Article 85 is amended as follows: Art. 85. (1) In the event of incomplete application for registration within 7 days of receipt of the application, the Commission shall notify the person to remove the deficiencies by providing him with a 7 day period of receipt of the notification. (2) The Commission shall enter the person in the register under art. 33, para. 1, t. 3 within 20 days from the date of receipt of the application or removal of incompletes. (3) The Commission shall refuse registration where the circumstances of art. 84, para. 1. (4) The person under para. 2 may request in writing from the Commission a certificate of entry in the register referred to in Article 2. 33, para. 1, t. 3. The Commission shall enter in the certificate the following circumstances: 1. identity of the person: (a) for legal persons and sole traders, the name (s) and the corresponding unique identification code; (b) for natural persons, the three names; 2. provided radio frequency spectrum, technical and operational parameters; 3. date and period of registration. (5) The Commission shall issue the certificate under para. 4 within 7 days of receipt of the request. (6) For issue of a certificate under para. 4 shall be paid an administrative fee of an amount fixed in the tariff under art. 147. (7) Registration shall be deleted upon express request by the person. (8) The Commission shall delete the registration in the following cases: 1. in the case of established systematic failure to comply with the rules of art. 66a, para. 3; 2. when an inspection by the Commission has established the existence of one of the circumstances under art. 84, para. 1, t. 3 letters.................................................................................................... (9) Registration shall also be deleted in cases: 1. on a reasoned written request by a competent authority in the event of established actions of the registered person threatening national security when using the limited resource allocated to it by registration; 2. when the registered person has declared the existence of any of the circumstances under art. 84, para. 1, t. 3 3. in the event of the death of the natural person, in the event of liquidation or termination of the legal person or termination of the business of the sole trader; 4. on the basis of an obligation arising from a ratified and effective international agreement to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. (10) The deletion of the registration in the cases of para. 9, p. 1 shall be subject to immediate enforcement. (11) As regards registrations in the applicable rules under art. 66a, para. 3 shall be included all or some of the conditions under art. 106, para. 2. (12) The rights of use acquired through registration shall not be subject to transfer and lease or extension. (13) An amendment of registration shall be made in accordance with art. 115. (14) The registered person may make a request for an amendment to his registration, other than the cases under art. 115, para. 1. The Commission shall examine the request, assess the need for the amendment of the registration and reflect the change within 20 days of the request being made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u26	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 73 with the proposed amendment by the Commission; the text of the importer for paragraphs 74 and 75; the text of the importer for § 76 with the proposed amendments by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 77; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 78; the version proposed by the Commission for § 79; the version proposed by the Commission for § 80; the version proposed by the Commission for paragraphs 81 and 82 including. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, I'll give you the floor for a statement. Wait until we finish the vote. They voted 102 MPs: 64, against 1, abstention 37. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u27	Dear Bulgarian citizens! At the end of the 10-year government GERB bet mines, which will blow in the next ten. I'm talking about one of them today. We've been alerted to it by union workers and workers. It's an old subject for us, but I'll remind you of it. It is about the concession of Sofia airport "Strategic Site for the National Security of Bulgaria." Four years we MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria did our best to protect the national interest in this case. Firstly, we have tabled amendments to the Law on concessions, in which we have proposed that such strategic sites for national security enter into a ban list of privatisations. Secondly, we asked for all the documentation and the opinion of the World Bank and the European Investment Bank. Thirdly, as a result of an analysis of this documentation, we have submitted an alert to the prosecution, to the Supreme Administrative Court and to the European Commission. Despite these actions, the government has made this deal and boasted smugly about how profitable it is for the country. In May 2020, the concessionaire confirmed its offer and commitments under the investment contract, jobs and infrastructure. And now we have a question for Prime Minister Borisov [[GERB's line: "There is a hass. "]] : Is it true that, despite this confirmation of the commitments, the Council of Ministers is preparing to postpone the fulfilment of the obligations of the concessionaire by ten years, but not of its rights? Because if so, the following is obtained: the concessionaire will enter possession, the reduction of workers begins, the increase of airport charges that passengers will pay. Therefore, at the end of October 2020, the executive director of the Sofia airport issued an order and it was published on the airport website. It makes it clear that a passenger fee, for example on an international line, is increased from 7 euros to 11 euros, which is over 60%, for a child it is from 3 euros to 5.83 euros. The security fee, which is also calculated as a passenger, is increased by 94.6% and the list of increases does not end there. Thus, for ten years the concessionaire will earn and ten years will not make one lev investment, which is his obligation under contract. This case could be the emblem of Borisov's rule. First, a strategic site of national security is granted a concession under disadvantage for Bulgaria. Secondly, from this deal will be damaged all passengers who have to pay higher charges, respectively a more expensive price of tickets, and the price will pay workers who will be and are already cutting. Third, this transaction will benefit the concessionaire and those who entered into such a transaction. Fourth, the government is making a new gift to the firm by delaying its duties for another ten years. Here are further questions to the government, to the prime minister: how many small, medium-sized, micro-Bulgarian companies have you postponed due to the crisis for ten years? How many of them have you created the opportunity for ten years to collect increased fees, to fire workers, to make profits without paying obligations under contract? None, of course! But you provide the big ones, the borrowers, who in this crisis must help to postpone their debts. What's going on? The small ones, the medium ones, the self-insuring Bulgarians to take credit and pay their debts. To the big ones to increase people's fees and not pay their debts! With one sentence of major benefits, small debts and loans! We are often asked: do you want to change the model, which model, which model? This is the model in which hidden and behind-the-scenes few benefit personally from the national wealth of Bulgaria at the expense of the well-being of Bulgarian citizens! Moreover, the change will be such.. the sites of national security will not be granted a concession as it is in modern and economically developed Europe. They will be managed and managed by the state without stealing and the revenues from them will benefit from the Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u28	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, we'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u29	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 83. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 84, i.e. 3 after the word "act" shall be added by para. 3.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 85. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 86. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 87. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 88. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 89. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 90, i.e. 1 concerning para. 2, p. 6 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 the words at the time of publication shall be replaced by the words simultaneously with the publication shall be replaced by the words at the time of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 91, i.e. 1 point.................................................................................................. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 92. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 93. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 94. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 95. Under § 96, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 96. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 96: ...... 96........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "supplier' is added with an indication of the identity of the person (s) concerned; (b) c. 1 the words "the Commercial Register' shall be replaced by "the Commercial Register' and the Register of Commercial Entities. (c) c. 2 after the word "costs" shall be added (unless they are claimed in the commercial register and the register of non-profit legal entities) (d) point 7 is repealed. 2. In para. 3 the words "7-day term' shall be replaced by "10 working days'. 3. In para. 4 t. 4 the words............................................................................................................ are replaced by................................................................................................................................................ 4. In para. 5 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 97, and after the words "al." In the text before this entry, the text is added to the text. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 98. Under § 99, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 99. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 99: ......... 99..................................................................... Article 106 is amended as follows: Art. 106. (1) The authorisations for use of radio frequency spectrum and geostationary orbit position with the relevant frequency spectrum shall contain: 1. provided radio frequency spectrum or geostationary orbit position with the corresponding frequency spectrum; 2. territorial scope, where applicable; 3. identification data; 4. the date of issue of the authorisation. (2) In the permits under para. 1 shall include all or any of the following conditions: 1. obligation to provide a service or to use a type of technology in accordance with art. 130 and coverage and quality requirements of the service if such requirements are set; 2. conditions for ensuring efficient and efficient use of radio spectrum in accordance with this law; 3. technical and operational conditions to avoid harmful interference and to protect public health from the harmful effects of electromagnetic fields, taking into account to the maximum extent the requirements for limiting exposure of the population to electromagnetic fields, where the conditions are different from those laid down in the general requirements under art. 73; 4. maximum period in accordance with art. 71 and 71a, which may be modified in accordance with the National Radio spectrum allocation plan; 5. possibility and conditions for the transfer or lease of rights on the authorisation at the request of the holder of the rights; 6. a fee for the use of radio frequency spectrum or geostationary orbit position with the relevant frequency spectrum in accordance with art. 143 and 146; 7. all commitments of the undertaking which obtains rights to use a radio frequency spectrum or geostationary orbit position with the relevant radio frequency spectrum, undertaken in a procedure for issuing or extending the authorisation, before the authorisation is granted or before the invitation to submit a intention or application for use of a radio frequency spectrum or geostationary orbit position with the relevant spectrum; 8. obligations to combine or share radio spectrum or to give access to radio spectrum to other users in the territory of the country or part thereof; 9. obligations arising from international agreements governing the use of radio spectrum; 10. obligations related to experimental use of radio frequency spectrum.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u30	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 83, § 84 with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission; paragraphs 85, 86, 87, 88, 89; the text of the importer for § 90 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 91 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for paragraphs 92, 93, 94 and 95; the version proposed by the Commission for § 96; the text of the importer for § 97 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 98; the version proposed by the Commission for § 99. They voted 103 MPs: for 76, against 1, abstention 26. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u31	According to § 100, there is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[Reply from the National Representative Christian Mitev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u32	Mr. Mitev, please withdraw the offer from the stand. We're going to slow down a little bit, but please keep the protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I withdraw the offer. It is adopted in a better version by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u34	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Please proceed with § 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u35	Under § 100, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 100. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 100: ....... 100........................................................................ Article 3 is replaced by the following: 106a: Art. 106a. (1) The Commission shall determine the conditions for the use of radio frequency spectrum under art. 106, para. 2 to ensure the optimal and most efficient and efficient use of radio spectrum before granting or extending the rights granted. Conditions shall also include the level of necessary use and the possibility to meet this requirement by transferring or renting the spectrum to ensure their compliance. The conditions for extending the rights of use of radio spectrum shall not confer undue advantages on holders of the rights granted. (2) Under the conditions laid down in para. 1 indicate the applicable parameters, including a deadline for exercising the rights to use radio spectrum, the non-compliance of which gives the Commission the right to withdraw the right to use or impose other measures. (3) The Commission shall conduct public consultations in accordance with art. 37 on the conditions relating to individual rights to use of radio spectrum and the criteria for assessing the fulfilment of those conditions prior to their imposition. (4) In order to ensure the efficient and efficient use of radio spectrum or to promote the increase of coverage, the Commission may, when determining the conditions for individual rights to use radio spectrum, provide conditions relating to the possibilities for: 1. imposing obligations for the sharing of physical infrastructure or active elements of electronic communications networks based on radio spectrum or shared use of radio spectrum; 2. imposing obligations for the conclusion of roaming access agreements; 3. joint deployment of infrastructures for the provision of networks or services based on the use of radio spectrum. (5) Under the conditions relating to the rights of use of radio spectrum, the Commission shall not prevent shared use of radio spectrum. (6) The Commission shall apply competition law on the implementation by undertakings of the conditions under para. 4 subject to the principles of advisory, publicity and transparency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 101. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 102. Under § 103, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 103. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 103: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission shall issue temporary authorisations for the use of radio spectrum in the following cases: 1. for experimental use; 2. for short-term projects, or 3. for short-term events. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: s (3) Temporary authorisation shall not be granted for a spectrum for which individual rights of use have already been granted by authorisation or on the basis of registration or application for rights of use have been submitted and the procedure for granting them has not been completed and if the granting of rights of use of radio spectrum is contrary to the requirements for spectrum management under art. 124 and 128. 3. In para. 4 words for each case shall be deleted, the words shall be deleted. 1... 3.............................................................................................. In the case of a Member State which is not a Member State of the European Union, a Member State of the European Union may decide to grant an authorisation in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, provided that the conditions laid down in Article 4. A new para is being created. 5? 7: . (5) Temporary authorisation under para. 1, t. 2 shall be issued for a period not exceeding 12 months. (6) Temporary authorisation under para. 1, t. 3 shall be issued for the duration and territorial scope necessary for the short-term event, but not more than three months. (7) The duration and territorial scope of each temporary authorisation shall be determined by the Commission on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the purpose for which the provisional authorisation is granted. Where the Commission considers that the period or territorial scope referred to in the application under para. 8 shall not correspond to the intended use of the requested radio frequency spectrum according to the justification under para. 8, the Commission shall allow, within 7 days, the applicant to specify an appropriate period or to provide additional data. In the event that the applicant does not exercise its right under the second sentence, the committee by reasoned decision shall refuse to grant a temporary authorisation. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 8 and in it, the words "the data for the purpose of the limited use' shall be replaced by "the detailed justification for the need to use the radio frequency spectrum requested and to issue a temporary authorisation', the words "the'. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... the following sentence is added: 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 9. 7. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 10 and amended as follows: The Commission shall adopt a decision on the granting of a temporary authorisation within 21 days of the date of receipt of the application or removal of incompletes. In its ruling, the committee shall examine the merits of the request for temporary authorisation, taking into account: 1. the need to issue a temporary authorisation on a case-by-case basis; 2. the need for the stated territorial scope and duration of the authorisation; 3. the benefits to consumers and the need to promote competition and the development of new technologies; 4. the requirements for radio spectrum management under art. 124 and 128. 8. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 11 and in it the words................................................................... are replaced by....................................................................................................................................................................................... 9. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 12 and in it the words "al." Each Member State shall ensure that the following conditions are met: The following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 104. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 105. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 106, and shall be replaced everywhere by the text before that. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8 and 9 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 107, and the words "Create" shall be created. In Chapter Five, Section VIII is created. 113 a.k.a. 5 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplied" and in para. 6 after the word, the notice is added to the decision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 108: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Chapter 5, in the name of Section IX, the word "spin' is deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 109. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 110, as in para. 2 words can be accepted. The words can be replaced by the host. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 111. Under § 112, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 112. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 112: .......... 112.................... 112................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 4 the words "effective use' shall be replaced by the need to ensure efficient and efficient use and, after the words "the users' interest' shall be added and the words "the users' interest' shall be added; (b) To be created t. 5. It's five o'clock. need to change the period of authorisation granted in relation to art. 71c. 2. In para. 2 after the words. The name of the person to whom the authorisation has been granted shall be replaced by the name of the person to whom the authorisation has been granted. 3. In para. 3 after the words. The following shall be added to the list: Under § 113, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 113. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 113: ................. 113............................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words...................................................................................... (b) c. 1 words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 106, t. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 106, para. 2, p. the following point is inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (c) c. 2 the words in the case of identified systemic infringements shall be replaced by the words in the case of system-level infringements and the words in the case of specified system-level infringements shall be deleted; (d) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. an undertaking authorised to use radio frequency spectrum or geostationary orbit position with the relevant spectrum has not complied with any or all of the obligations under art. 106, para. 2, p. 2 and has not submitted a request to transfer or lease the radio spectrum granted by authorisation pursuant to art. 121. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words...................................................................................... (b) c. 1 the word "supplied' shall be replaced by the person to whom authorisation has been granted and the words "supplied' shall be deleted; (c) c. 2 and 3 the word "s' shall be replaced by the person "s'; (d) c. 7 words for radio or television are replaced by a statement issued by the Electronic Media Board and the words available and/or new ones are deleted. 3. In para. 6 the words........................................................................................................ 4. The creation of para. 7. . (7) Where the withdrawal of the authorisation under para. 6 affects the public interest, the interests of users and consumers and the provision of universal service, the Commission shall conduct public consultation in accordance with art. 37 within a period of not less than 30 days. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 114. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 115, i.e. 1 point.................................................................................................. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 the words "and the comma in front of them" shall be deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 116: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words..................................................................... is deleted....................................................................................................................................................................................... 122, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3 and para. 4.................................................... 2 An entity wishing to transfer its permission to use a limited resource or part of the rights and obligations included in an authorisation to use a radio frequency spectrum or to rent a radio frequency spectrum shall submit an application to the Commission. (3) The application under para. 2 is in Bulgarian and contains: 1. identification of the enterprise under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. identity data of the person wishing to be transferred to him or her the permission to use a limited resource or part of the rights and obligations involved in the authorisation to use a radio frequency spectrum or to be leased to him; 3. authorisation number; 4. a description of the type of transfer, the whole authorisation or part of the rights and the relevant obligations included in the authorisation for use of radio frequency spectrum, respectively, of the renting of radio frequency spectrum; 5. consent of the person under t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 6. consent of the enterprise under para. 2 to fulfil the authorisation obligations for the use of radio frequency spectrum when renting out radio frequency spectrum. (4) The application shall be accompanied by: 1. documents according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2, p. 1 for the enterprise under para. 2 and for the person wishing to be transferred the permission to use a limited resource or part of the rights and obligations included in the authorisation to use a radio frequency spectrum or to rent it out; 2. documents according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2, p. For the person wishing to be transferred the permission to use a limited resource or part of the rights and related obligations included in the authorisation to use a radio frequency spectrum or to rent it out. (5) The Commission shall inform the applicant in writing to remove deficiencies or irregularities in the documents under para. 3 and 4 within 7 days of receipt of the notification. In the event that deficiencies or irregularities are not eliminated within that period, the application shall not be considered. (6) The Commission shall rule on the request under para. 2 within 42 days from the submission of the application or from the removal of incompleteness or irregularities under para. 5. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 7 and in it: (a) c. 1 the words............................................................................................. (b) c. 2 the words............................................................................................................ (c) c. 3 the words "or renting out' shall be deleted, the words "receipt of available and/or new analogues' shall be deleted and the words "radio and television' shall be deleted; (d) c. 4 the words............................................................................................................ (e) create a t. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. in the case of harmonised radio frequency spectrum, the transfer under para. 1 meets the conditions for harmonised use; 6. the undertaking to which the rights are to be transferred shall meet the requirements of art. 93, para. 2, p. 2. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 8. 5. They're creating an al. 9 and 10: The Commission shall, by reasoned decision, refuse to transfer an authorisation or part of the rights and obligations included in an authorisation to use a radio frequency spectrum or renting the latter where the person under para. 3, p. 2 there is one of the circumstances under art. 84, para. 1, t. 3. (10) Within 14 days of receipt of the notification of the decision under para. 1 The applicant shall submit to the Commission's account the fees due. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 117, and the words shall be deleted in the text. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 118. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 119. Under § 120, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 120. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 120: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "radios' is replaced by "interferences'. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the case of spectrum distribution and the definition of the conditions for its use, the following shall be: 1. ensure effective radio spectrum management in accordance with art. 4 and 4a; 2. apply objective, transparent, promoting competition, non-discriminatory and proportionate criteria. 3. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) The management of radio spectrum shall comply with international agreements, including the International Union of Telecommunications and other agreements adopted within that organisation, which are applicable to spectrum, and shall take into account public policy considerations. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The harmonised use of radio spectrum of electronic communications networks and services in the European Union shall be encouraged in accordance with the need to ensure its effective and efficient use and to create benefits for consumers such as competition, economies of scale and interoperability of networks and services, and with a view to: 1. achieving wireless broadband coverage on the territory of the country and the population with high quality and speed connections, as well as covering the main transport routes at national and European level, including the trans-European transport network as referred to in Regulation (EU) No 1315/2013; 2. facilitating the rapid development in the European Union of new wireless communications technologies and applications, including, if necessary, through a cross-sectoral approach in radio spectrum management; 3. ensuring predictability and consistency in the provision, extension, modification, limitation and withdrawal of rights for use of radio spectrum in order to promote long-term investments; 4. prevent cross-border or national harmful interference and take appropriate preventive and corrective measures; 5. promoting shared use of spectrum between similar or different use of spectrum in accordance with competition law; 6. implementation of the most appropriate and easiest authorisation system possible in order to maximise flexibility, sharing and efficiency in the use of radio spectrum; 7. the application of rules for the provision, transfer, extension, modification and withdrawal of rights for the use of radio spectrum that are clearly and transparently established to ensure regulatory security, consistency and predictability; 8. consistency and predictability in the European Union in terms of how to authorise the use of radio spectrum, while protecting public health, given the requirements for limiting exposure of the population to electromagnetic fields. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 121, as in para. 2 the words supposed to be replaced by an interested person and in para. 3 the word "review" is replaced by "preface."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u36	Thank you, let's stop here, Mr. Ivanov. Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will list the following texts in order not to get confused: the version proposed by the Commission for § 100; the text of the importer for paragraphs 101 and 102; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 103; the text of the importer for § 104 and 105; the text of the importer for § 106 with the proposal for editorial amendments made by the Commission; the text of the Commission for § 107 with the proposal for editorial amendments; the text of the importer for § 108 in the version proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 109 and 110; the text of the importer for § 110 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the text proposed by the Commission for § 111; § 112 in the version proposed by the Commission for § 113; the version proposed by the importer for § 114; the text proposed by the importer for § 115 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the amendment proposed by the Commission for § 116; the Commission for Paragraph 117 of the draft amendments proposed by the Commission for Paragraph 117; the draft amendments proposed by the applicant for § 118 and 119; Please, voting mode. Vote 77 MPs: 68, no objection, abstention 9. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. We interrupt the meeting for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u37	Mr. Ivanov, I'd like to invite you to report here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u38	Dear colleagues, we continue with § 122. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u39	Guys, I'm gonna have to ask you to keep it down.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u40	Under § 122, there is a proposal of Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 122. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 122: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 124b: Art. 1246. (1) In coordinating the use of harmonised spectrum for electronic communications networks and services within the European Union, taking into account the conditions of the national market, a common date by which a specific harmonised spectrum is to be allowed to be used may be set. (2) Where harmonised conditions are established by means of technical implementing measures in accordance with Decision No 676/2002/EC, the use of radio spectrum for wireless broadband networks and services shall be authorised no later than 30 months after the adoption of the technical implementing measure or as soon as possible after the repeal of a decision authorising alternative use under art. 124a, para. 1. (3) The term under para. 2 may be postponed to a specific frequency band in the following circumstances: 1. limitation of the use of this frequency band on the basis of an objective of common interest under art. 130, para. 3, p. 1 or 4; 2. unresolved problems with cross-border coordination leading to harmful interference with third countries, provided that support is requested by the European Union under art. 131a, para. 6; 3. protection measures for national security and defence, or 4. force majeure. (4) Postponement of the term under para. 3 shall be reviewed at least once every 2 years. (5) The deadline under para. 2 may be postponed to a specific frequency band for up to 30 months in the case of: 1. unresolved problems with cross-border coordination leading to harmful interference with other Member States of the European Union, provided that all necessary measures under art. 131a, para. 4 and 5; 2. the need to ensure as well as the complexity of ensuring the technical migration of existing users of this frequency band. (6) The Commission shall, in agreement with the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, notify the postponement of the period under para. 3 or 5 other Member States of the European Union and the European Commission, presenting the relevant reasons. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 123, as in para. 2 in the text before t. 1 words may be deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 124: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: s (1) Where the use of spectrum is harmonised, the conditions and procedures shall be agreed and the undertakings to which the spectrum is provided shall be selected in accordance with international agreements and European Union law, the Commission shall grant authorisation to use this spectrum. 2. In para. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 125. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 126. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 127. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 128: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the geostationary orbit shall be added with the relevant frequency band. 2. In para. 2 the words "Radio frequencies and frequency bands" shall be provided by the Committee and shall be replaced by the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. In para. 3 the words the radio frequencies and the frequency bands shall be replaced by the radio spectrum and the words the radio frequencies and frequency bands shall be replaced by the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4. The creation of para. 4. The use of radio spectrum may be restricted or withdrawn for reasons resulting from the need to ensure the efficient and efficient use of radio spectrum or the application of technical implementing measures adopted pursuant to art. 4 of Decision No 676/2002/EC, subject to the principles of proportionality and equal treatment and after a public consultation in accordance with art. 37 within a period of not less than 30 days. In such cases, compensation from the State budget may be provided, the amount of the State budget being determined on a reasoned proposal from the Commission, which is subject to the public consultation by sentence first. Under § 129, there is a proposal of Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 129. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 129: "§ 129. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the use of radio frequencies and frequency bands' are replaced by "the use of radio frequency bands'. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "radiofrequency and frequency bands' are replaced by "radio-frequency'; (b) c. 4 the words "compatible use of radio frequencies' are replaced by "shared use of radio frequency'; (c) c. 5 shall be added at the end of the period of time, or at the end of the period of time; (d) c. 6 the words.. in compliance with the principle of neutrality in terms of services...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. In para. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "radiofrequency and frequency bands' are replaced by "radio-frequency'; (b) c. 3 the word "radiofrequency' is replaced by "radiofrequency spectrum'; (c) c. 4 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 4. In para. 4 sentence 2 after the words "Extremely extended" is added. 5. The creation of para. 5. . (5) Modification of the use of radio spectrum under para. 2 "4' cannot be the sole reason for withdrawing an individual right to use radio frequency spectrum. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 130, the words being created art. Art. 131 (a) and (b) are replaced by the following: (c) Chapter 6 is inserted: 131 a.k.a. 5 the words "solving a problem" are replaced by "solving a dispute about a problem." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 131. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 132. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 133. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 134, as in para. 3, p. 2 the words "these undertakings' shall be replaced by "the undertakings'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 135. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 136. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 137, the words being created art. Art. 133b (b) shall be replaced by "In chapter seven, Section I.' is created. 133b. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 138: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134 the following amendments and additions are made: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "bonds may be reserved' shall be replaced by "end users' shall be entitled, upon request, to retain their numbers regardless of the service provider for "supplier'; (b) c. 2 the words in case of change of the undertaking providing the service concerned shall be replaced by the words for each location. (c) point 3 is repealed. 2. In para. 4. (a) c. 5 the word "Users' is replaced by "Users'; b) To be created t. 8 and 9: It's 8 o'clock. rules for the compensation of end-users by suppliers in an easy and timely manner in the event of non-compliance with the obligations under this Section, including in cases of delays or abuse of the transfer processes of numbers, as well as of missed service and installation meetings; 9. requirements for informing end-users during the transport processes as well as for the existence of the rights of compensation referred to in point 9. 8..................................................... 3. Alinei 5 and 6 are amended as follows: The transfer of numbers and their subsequent activation shall be carried out as soon as possible, as defined in the functional specifications under para. 3 if possible on the date when explicitly agreed with the end-user. The receiving supplier shall activate the number requested for transfer within one working day from the agreed date, and the deprivation of service during the portability process shall not exceed one working day. Where the end-user does not take advantage of his right to negotiate a specific date of portability, the latter shall be determined by the receiving and donating supplier. (6) When a final user terminates a contract, he shall reserve the right to transfer a number under para. 1 to another supplier for a minimum period of one month after the date of termination, unless it expressly waives that right. Under § 139, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 139. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 139: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 134a: Art. 134a. (1) The receiving supplier shall conduct the transfer processes of the number by cooperating in good faith with the donating supplier. Suppliers are obliged not to delay, not to abuse the transfer processes of numbers and not to carry numbers without the explicit consent of end-users. The contracts of end-users with the donating supplier shall be terminated automatically after the portability process has been completed. (2) Upon request, donating suppliers shall reimburse the remaining credit to consumers who use prepaid services. For the refund, the donating supplier may charge a fee which is proportionate and proportionate to the actual costs incurred by the donating supplier only if it is provided for in the contract. (3) In the event of failure of the transfer process, the donating supplier shall reactivate the end user's numbers and services until the successful completion of the transfer. The donating provider shall continue to provide its services under the terms of the contract in force with the end-user until the services of the receiving provider are activated. (4) The obligations under para. 3 shall not apply when portability of the number under art. 134, para. 6................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 140. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 141. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 142, after the words "al'. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 143. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 144: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 138c the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 The undertakings providing public electronic communications services, where economically possible, shall provide all end-users with the possibility of: 1. access to non-geographical numbers and use of services provided through these numbers within the European Union; and 2. access to all numbers provided within the European Union regardless of the technology and devices used by the undertaking, including the numbers from the national numbering plans of the Member States and universal international telephone numbers for access to services with free access. 2. In para. 2 the word "Abonate' is replaced by "Final'. 3. In para. 4 the words "the European Union" or "the European Telephone Numbering Area" or "the European Union" shall be replaced by "the European Union" or "the European Union." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 145: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 138d is amended as follows: Art. 138. Undertakings providing voice communications services via fixed or mobile terrestrial networks shall not be allowed to register and activate in the name of one end user more than 10 phone numbers by which prepaid voice communications services are provided. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 146. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 147. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 148, i.e. 2 the words "the fourth-ranking, Section III" shall be replaced by "the third-ranking," It's 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 149. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 150. Under § 151, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 151. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 151: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 143a: Art. 143a. (1) The amounts of the fees under art. 140 and 143 shall be determined taking into account the economic and technological situation of the market. (2) The Commission shall determine the amounts of the applicable fees for individual rights to use radio spectrum in such a way as to ensure the efficient provision and use of radio spectrum, including by: 1. determination of minimum one-off fees under art. 140, para. 1, 3 and 4, taking into account the value under the tariff under art. 147 the rights of use of radio frequency spectrum for possible alternative use; 2. reporting of the costs arising from the conditions by which the rights under point are bound 1, and 3. application of payment conditions related to the actual availability for use of radio spectrum. (3) When determining the amount of the applicable fees for individual rights to use harmonised spectrum for wireless broadband services, account shall be taken of the requirements under art. 71a. (4) Decision to extend the period of authorisation for the use of harmonised spectrum according to art. 114b may result in a revision of the amounts of the applicable fees and other conditions related thereto for individual rights to use a harmonised spectrum in the frequency band concerned, in accordance with the results of the analysis carried out under art. 53, para. 2. (5) The amount of the fee under art. 140, para. 1 for individual rights to use numbering resources shall be determined in a way that ensures efficient use of numbering resources. (6) The amounts of fees under art. 140 and 143 for individual radio frequency spectrum rights shall be determined on the basis of one or more of the following criteria: 1. number of registered residents who can be serviced by the electronic communications network for which an individual right to use radio frequency spectrum is granted; 2. territorial scope; 3. effectively emitted power or power at the output of the transmitter; 4. borrowed frequency band; 5. number of radio stations used; 6. number of radio frequency channels used; 7. type of radio frequency channel (radiofrequency tape) complex/duplex; 8. type of electronic communications network; 9. number of electronic communications networks used; 10. purpose of radio stations and electronic communications networks; 11. period of use of the radio spectrum. (7) The amount of the fee for the use of numbering resources under art. 143 shall be determined on the basis of the degree of limitation of numbering resources, taking into account their economic value as determined on the basis of criteria which the Commission has previously determined and published on its website. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 152: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145 para. 1 is amended as (1) Fees under art. 143 shall be paid in 4 equal instalments by the end of the quarter for which they are due. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 153, i.e. 1 the words "The main text' shall be replaced by "the text before'. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 154. The Commission supports the Commission's text in support of the text of the importer for § 154. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 155. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 156. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 157. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 158, i.e. 3 point.................................................................................................. In the words "inefficient', the words "inefficient' shall be replaced by the words "inefficient'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 159. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 160. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 161, and the word "prescribing' shall be replaced by "prescribing'. Under § 162, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 162. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 162: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) Where, on the basis of an analysis of the relevant market, it is established that there is no effective competition, the Commission shall designate undertakings which individually or jointly have a significant impact on the relevant market and shall impose on that undertaking or undertakings specific obligations provided for in art. 166, or retains or amends such obligations where they already exist if it considers that the choice for end-users would be limited in the absence of such obligations without prejudice to: 1. the provisions of art. 155, para. Art. 3, Art. 160c and Art. 160c. 178; 2. the provisions of art. 28 of the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, art. Art. 63, Art. 106, para. 2, p. Art. 7, Art. 134, 138c and 230b in relation to the obligations of undertakings other than undertakings designated as undertakings having significant impact on a relevant market; 3. compliance with international commitments. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The Commission may determine that two or more undertakings have a joint significant impact on the market not only where structural or other links exist between them, but also where the structure of the relevant market results in coordinated results, promoting parallel or coherent anti-competitive behaviour on the market. 4. In para. 7 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 221, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal 5. They're creating an al. 8 and 9: In exceptional circumstances, where it intends to impose on undertakings with significant impact on the relevant market access or interconnection obligations other than those provided for in art. 166, para. 2, p. 1? 6 and para. 3, p. 3 and 4, the Commission shall request authorisation to the European Commission. (9) The obligations under para. 8 shall be imposed after authorisation by the European Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 163. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 164. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 165, i.e. 1 point.................................................................................................. 1 a t. 2 the words "receipt of the request for assistance" shall be replaced by the terms under para. For the purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 166, as in para. 2 the words supplies referred to in "supplies' are replaced by "supplies'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 167, the words being created art. Art. 157c is replaced by "In chapter 9" is created. 157c. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 168. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 169. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 170: seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 160 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "Innovation and innovation', the deployment of very high capacity networks is added, and the word "Users' is replaced by "Users'. 2. In para. 2: (a) points 1 s 3 are amended as follows: "1." obligations to the extent necessary to ensure end-to-end connectivity, to undertakings notified under art. 66, para. 1, controlling access to end-users, including in justified cases obligations for interconnection of their networks, if not carried out; 2. in justified cases and to the extent necessary, obligations of undertakings notified under art. 66, para. 1, controlling access to end-users, making their services interoperable; 3. obligations, to the extent necessary to ensure that end-users have access to digital radio and television broadcasting services, as well as to additional related services designated by the Commission, to operators to provide access to interfaces for application programmes and to electronic programming guides, under fair, objective and equal conditions; (b) To be created t. 4. "4." in justified cases where end-to-end connectivity between end-users is threatened due to the lack of interoperability between interpersonal communications services and, to the extent necessary, to ensure end-to-end connectivity between end-users, obligations for relevant providers of interpersonal communications services without numbers reaching a significant degree of coverage and dissemination among users to make their services interoperable. 3. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: . (3) The obligations under para. 2, p. 4 may only be required: 1. to the extent necessary to ensure the interoperability of interpersonal communications services and may include proportionate obligations for providers of those services to publish and authorise the use, modification and reuse of relevant information by the Commission or other competent authorities and suppliers or to use and apply standards or specifications, according to art. 280; 2. where the European Commission has adopted implementing measures specifying the nature and scope of the obligations which may be imposed. (4) The Commission shall draw up guidelines and publish on its website the procedures applicable to access and interconnection in order to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises and limited geographical coverage operators can benefit from the obligations imposed. Under § 171, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 171. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 171: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 160a: Art. 160a. (1) Upon reasonable request, without prejudice to art. 160, the Commission may impose obligations to grant access to electrical installations, cables and adjacent facilities in buildings or to the first concentrate or distribution point specified by it where this point is located outside the building. Where the duplication of these network elements would be economically non-costable or physically impossible, such obligations may be imposed on providers of electronic communications networks or on the owners of those installations, cables and adjacent facilities where those owners are not providers of electronic communications networks. (2) The access obligations imposed may include rules for: 1. access to the relevant network elements and to adjacent facilities and services; 2. transparency and equality; 3. allocation of access costs that change when it is necessary to take into account risk factors. (3) The Commission, taking into account the obligations determined on the basis of an analysis of the relevant market under art. 151, and accept that the imposed in accordance with para. 1 obligations are not sufficient to overcome serious and permanent economic or physical barriers leading to duplication of network elements, and these barriers are the basis of an existing or emerging market situation which significantly restricts the choice of end-users may extend access obligations under para. 1, under fair and reasonable conditions. The Commission may also impose access obligations outside the first concentration point or distribution point to a point which, in its view, is closest to end-users and is able to serve a sufficient number of end-users so that it is economically beneficial for those seeking efficient access. (4) If justified by technical inability or from an economic point of view, the Commission may impose obligations for access to active network elements or virtual access. (5) The Commission shall not impose obligations on providers of electronic communications networks in accordance with para. 3 and 4 where it finds that: 1. the supplier has the characteristics under art. 172k, para. 1 and provides each undertaking with reliable and similar alternative means of reaching end-users by providing access to a network with very high capacity on the basis of fair, non-discriminatory and objective conditions; the Commission may extend this exemption to other providers offering, in fair, non-discriminatory and objective conditions, access to a network with very high capacity; or 2. imposing obligations would prevent the economic or financial effectiveness of the deployment of a new network, especially in small projects. (6) Outside the cases under para. 5, t. 1, the Commission may impose obligations on providers of electronic communications networks that meet the criteria under para. 5, t. 1 where the network is financed by public funds. (7) When applying para. The Commission takes the utmost account of the relevant guidelines of the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 172. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 173: ...§ 173. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 160c: Art. 160c. (1) The obligations and conditions imposed in accordance with art. 160. 160b should be objective, transparent and proportionate, prevent discrimination and be carried out in accordance with the procedures laid down in art. 36, 42b. (2) Where the Commission has imposed obligations and conditions in accordance with art. 160. 160b, it evaluates the results of them up to 5 years after the adoption of the measures under para. 1 in relation to the same undertakings and shall assess whether it is appropriate to repeal or amend them in the light of changed conditions. (3) The Commission shall disclose the outcome of its assessment under para. 2 in accordance with the procedures referred to in Articles 36, 42 and 42b. (4) When determining the end point of the network in different network topologies, the Commission shall take the utmost account of the applicable guidelines of the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u41	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs of the version of Paragraph 122 of the Commission Report to the version of Paragraph 173 of the Commission Report including. Vote 82 MPs: 75, none, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u42	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 174: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 160d: Art. 160. (1) The provision of access to a public electronic communications network through local radio networks using the harmonised radio spectrum shall only be made subject to the applicable requirements in the rules of art. 66a, para. 3. (2) When granting access under para. 1 is not part of an economic activity or is additional to an economic activity or public service which is not dependent on the transmission of signals on these networks, to undertakings, public sector organisations, non-governmental organisations or end-users providing such access shall not apply the requirements of art. 66, para. 1, the obligations of interconnection under art. 160 and the obligations under Chapter 14. (3) Undertakings providing public electronic communications networks or services may grant access to their networks through local radio networks located on end-user premises, subject to prior informed consent by the end-user and subject to the applicable general requirements. (4) Enterprises providing public electronic communications networks or services shall not be entitled to restrict or unilaterally impede end-users: 1. have access to local radio networks of their choice provided by third parties, or 2. to allow reciprocal or more general access to providers' networks by other end-users through local radio networks, including on the basis of initiatives of third parties that unite and make public local radio networks available to different end-users. (5) End-users shall be entitled to allow reciprocal or otherwise access to their local radio networks of other end-users, including on the basis of initiatives of third parties that unite and make public local radio networks of different end-users. (6) The competent authorities shall not impose undue restrictions on the provision of public access to local radio networks: 1. by public sector organisations or in public spaces near the premises occupied by those organisations where the provision of access is an addition to the public services provided in those premises; 2. by initiatives of non-governmental organisations or public sector organisations to unify local radio networks of different end-users, including local radio networks to which public access is ensured under this. 1. (7) The responsibility of persons who grant access under para. 1, 4 and 5 shall be limited under the conditions of art. 13 of the Ecommerce Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 175. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 176: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 162 the following amendments are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 The undertakings providing public electronic communications networks or services and their employees who acquire information from other undertakings before, during or after access negotiations or interconnection shall comply with confidentiality requirements regarding the information provided or stored and shall use it only for the purposes for which it is intended. 2. In para. 2 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier countries', including other internal structures, subsidiaries or partners. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 177, and the word "neutral' shall be replaced by "the applicant'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 178. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 179. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 180. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 181: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: s (1) the transparency requirement is linked to the publication of certain information such as: financial statements, prices, technical specifications, network characteristics and their expected development, as well as terms and conditions of provision and use, including any conditions that alter access or use of services and applications, in particular migration from existing infrastructure. 2. Alinei 3 s 6 are amended as follows: . (3) In case of an undertaking under art. 166, para. 1 except the obligation under para. 1 is imposed and an obligation to equalise, the Commission may require it to publish a type proposal, which contains a description of the relevant services and their individual components according to market needs, as well as the associated conditions and prices. The type proposal may not include requirements for undertakings to use ancillary services and facilities that are not necessary for the requested service and to pay for such services and facilities. (4) The Commission shall adopt by decision the minimum content of the type proposal after holding a public consultation under art. 36. (5) When determining the minimum content under para. 4 The Commission shall take the utmost account of the relevant guidelines of the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications. (6) The Commission shall impose on the undertaking providing public electronic communications networks to which an obligation under art. 166, para. 2, p. 4 or 6 in connection with wholesale access to network infrastructure to publish a type proposal. Where necessary, the Commission shall define key performance indicators and relevant service levels and shall ensure compliance with them, including in advance compensation for their non-compliance. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 182. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 183: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169 the following amendments are made: 1. In para. 4 words which are used to determine prices shall be deleted. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: . (5) Without prejudice to the information requirements of the undertakings under this law and in order to ensure the fulfilment of the transparency and equality obligations, the Commission may require undertakings providing public electronic communications networks, accounting data and information, including revenue received from third parties. 3. In para. 6 the words "Competitive competition' shall be replaced by the development of an open market and a competitive market and shall be replaced by the words "Open market'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 184. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 185, i.e. 4 The Words............................................................................. 4 "6" is replaced by "new" para. 4 and para. Five and six. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 186. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 187. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 188. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 189, as in para. 4 the word "the power" is replaced by "the power" and "the power" is replaced by "the power." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 190, as in para. 5 words according to the provision of art. 172nd, para. The following shall be replaced by the following: 172nd, para. 9.................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 191: ssshhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh In Chapter 10a, Section II is created art. 172g: Art. 172g. (1) Enterprises with a significant impact of one or more relevant markets may offer under the order of art. 172i and subject to para. 3 making commitments to allow joint investments in the deployment of very high capacity new networks that ensure optical connectivity to the premises of end-users or to the base station. (2) The commitment under para. 1 may include offering ownership or long-term risk sharing with other providers of electronic communications networks or services through co-financing or by buying-in agreements providing specific structural rights. (3) When the commission evaluates the commitments under para. 1, it shall establish whether the joint investment proposal complies with the following conditions: 1. the proposal shall be valid at any time in the life cycle of the network for each provider of electronic communications networks or services; 2. the proposal would enable co-investors to compete effectively in a sustainable manner and in the long term on the downstream markets on which the undertaking is active with a significant impact on the relevant market in: (a) fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory conditions enabling access to the full capacity of the network to the extent to which it is subject to joint investment; (b) flexibility in terms of the size and timing of the participation of each individual co-investor; (c) an opportunity to increase participation in the future, and (d) the granting of reciprocal rights by co-investors after the deployment of the infrastructure covered by the joint investment; 3. the proposal shall be made public in a timely manner by the entity and, if the entity does not meet the conditions laid down in art. 172k, para. 1, at least 6 months before the deployment of the new network; 4. applicants who do not participate in the joint investment may benefit from the same quality, speed, conditions and access to end-users as well as before the deployment of the new network, accompanied by a mechanism for adaptation over time, confirmed by the Commission, depending on the development of the related retail markets, which retains incentives to participate in the joint investment; the mechanism ensures that applicants have access to the network elements with very high capacity at a given time and on the basis of transparent and non-discriminatory conditions reflecting appropriately the level of risk assumed by the relevant co-investors at the different stages of deployment and taking into account competition on retail markets; 5. the proposal must meet at least the criteria set out in art. 172h, and be done in good faith. (4) When the Commission finds that the proposed commitment to joint investments meets the conditions under para. 3, it may give these commitments binding force following the procedure under Article 3. 172i, not imposing any additional obligations under art. 166, para. 2, p. 1 "6' as regards the elements of the new very high capacity network which are subject to commitments if at least one potential co-investor has concluded an agreement on joint investments with an undertaking with a significant impact on a relevant market. (5) The application of para. 4 shall not affect the regulatory treatment of commitments which do not meet the conditions under para. 3, taking into account the results of the public consultation referred to in Article 3. 172nd, para. 4 but which have an impact on competition and are taken into account for the purposes of the application of art. 152, 154 and 166. (6) Outside the cases under para. 5 The Commission may, in justified cases, impose, maintain or amend specific obligations in accordance with art. 166, para. 1 and para. 2, p. In order to address significant competition problems in certain markets, the Commission finds that, otherwise, given the specific characteristics of these markets, competition problems would not be resolved. (7) The Commission shall ensure compliance with the conditions laid down in para. 3 and may require the undertaking with significant impact to provide it with annual reports of compliance. (8) The Commission may adopt a decision pursuant to art. 54 in the case of a dispute arising between undertakings in connection with a joint investment agreement which meets the conditions under para. 3. (9) For the successive application of the conditions under para. 3 and the criteria under art. 172th Commission takes into account the guidelines of the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications in this area. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 192, and the words "Create" shall be created. Chapter 10 is replaced by Section II of Chapter Ten. 172z. Under § 193, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 193. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 193: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Chapter 10a, Section II is created art. 172i: Art. 172. (1) Undertakings with significant impact on a relevant market may propose to the Commission commitments regarding access conditions and/or joint investments applicable to their networks, including with regard to: 1. cooperation agreements relevant for carrying out an assessment of the appropriate and proportionate obligations under art. 166; 2. joint investments in networks with very high capacity according to art. 172g, or 3. effective and equal access of third parties according to art. 172e and 172f, both during the period of implementation of the voluntary separation from a vertically integrated undertaking and after the implementation of the proposed form of separation. (2) The proposal under para. 1 shall contain detailed information, including as regards the deadlines, the scope of implementation and the duration of the commitments, in order to enable the Commission to carry out its assessment under para. 3... 5........................................................................... The period for applying these commitments may exceed the periods for carrying out market analyses provided for in art. 157a, para. 1. (3) In the assessment of obligations in accordance with art. 157 as regards the commitments under para. 1 The Commission shall pay particular attention to: 1. evidence of the fair and reasonable nature of the proposed commitments; 2. whether these commitments are valid for all market participants; 3. the timely provision of access under fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory conditions, including networks with very high capacity, before starting the provision of relevant retail services, and 4. the possibility of the proposed commitments to create sustainable competition in downstream markets and facilitate the joint deployment and use of networks with very high capacity in the interests of end-users. (4) The Commission shall consult the interested third parties directly affected by the commitments under para. 1 except where those commitments clearly do not fulfil one or more of the applicable conditions or criteria under this law. Potential co-investors or access candidates may express an opinion on the proposed commitments. (5) Taking into account all the opinions expressed during the consultation under para. 4 and the extent to which these opinions are representative of the various interested parties, the Commission shall inform the undertaking with a significant impact on the relevant market of its preliminary conclusions whether the proposed commitments comply with the objectives, criteria and procedures laid down in this Law and under what conditions the binding force commitments may be applied. An entity may review its initial proposal to take into account the preliminary conclusions of the Commission. (6) Without prejudice to art. 172g, para. 4, the committee may, in whole or in part, give binding effect to the commitments. (7) Outside the cases referred to in art. 157a, para. 1 The Commission may confer on some or all of the binding commitments for a certain period, which may cover the entire duration of the period for which they are proposed. of joint investment commitments under art. 172g, para. 4 The Commission shall give binding power for a period of at least seven years. (8) When the Commission gives binding effect to the commitments made, it shall assess according to art. 157a, para. 3 and 4 the consequences of this decision on the development of the market and the appropriateness of any obligation it imposed or which, in the absence of these commitments, it intended to impose under art. 166, para. 2. In the case of notification in accordance with art. 42 for the draft measure concerned, the Commission shall also apply the commitment decision. (9) The Commission shall monitor compliance with the commitments to which it has binding force in accordance with para. 6 in the same way as controls compliance with the obligations imposed under art. 166 and examines the possibility of extending the period for which binding effect has been granted to them after the expiry of the initial period. Regardless of the procedure under art. 78, the Commission may re-evaluate the obligations imposed in accordance with art. 157a, para. Three and four. (10) Alinei 1..9, subject to art. 172g shall be without prejudice to the application of the market analysis procedure under art. 150 and the imposition of obligations under art. 166..................................................................... Under § 194, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 194. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 194: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Chapter 10a, Section II is created art. 172k: Art. 172k. (1) Where an undertaking with a significant impact of one or more wholesale markets does not participate in the retail electronic communications markets, the Commission shall assess whether that undertaking fulfils the following conditions: 1. all companies and structural units within the undertaking, as well as all companies under control but not necessarily wholly owned by the same final owner, and any shareholder who can exercise control over the undertaking, develop their ongoing and plan their future activities only on wholesale electronic communications markets, thus not operating on retail electronic communications markets for end-users; 2. the undertaking is not bound to work with a downstream undertaking active in the market for electronic retail communications services to end-users due to a contract of exclusive rights or any other contract which may be aligned to a contract of exclusive rights. (2) If the Commission finds that the conditions laid down in para. 1 are fulfilled, it may impose only on the undertaking concerned the obligations under art. 166, para. 2, p. 2 and 4 or obligations under art. 166, para. 2, p. 5 related to fair and reasonable pricing if justified on the basis of market analysis, including an estimated estimate of the likely behaviour of the undertaking with significant impact on the relevant market. (3) The Commission shall review the imposed on the undertaking in accordance with para. 2 obligations where he finds that the conditions laid down in para. 1 shall no longer be fulfilled and, where necessary, other obligations laid down in art. 166, para. 2, p. 1 "6" after a market analysis under art. 151. The undertakings shall notify the Commission of any change in the circumstances under para. 1 within 14 days of the occurrence of the relevant circumstance. (4) Where, on the basis of evidence concerning the contractual terms offered by the undertaking to its downstream customers, the Commission finds that competition is distorted or may be impaired to the detriment of end-users, it shall amend the obligations imposed in accordance with para. 2, or impose one or more of the obligations laid down in art. 166, para. 2, p. 1, 3, 5 and 6. (5) The imposition of obligations and their revision shall be carried out in accordance with art. 36, 42b The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 195, the words being created art. Chapter 10 is replaced by Section II of Chapter Ten. In para. 172l (b), the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that the Court of Justice of the European Union did not have an opinion on the compatibility of the measure with the internal market with the internal market. 5 the words "the member' shall be replaced by "Allinei 1' and "the procedures' shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 196, the words being created art. Art. 172m (OJ C 10th, Section II) is hereby established. 172m ", and the words "s' refer to "s' are replaced by "s' defined as "s'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 197. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 198: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 173 is amended as follows: Art. 173. The obligation to provide, upon reasoned request of access to and use of necessary network elements and/or adjacent facilities, may be imposed on an undertaking having a significant impact on the market at the discretion of the Commission, including where the refusal of access or unjustified conditions having similar effect may impede the existence of a sustainable competitive retail market or is detrimental to end-users. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 199: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." providing third parties with access to certain network elements and/or adjacent facilities, including unbundled access to or part of a subscriber line; 2. A new t. is created. 2: "2." providing third parties with access to specific active network elements and services or virtual access; 3. Previously on "T." 2 becomes t. 3. 4. Previously on "T." 3 becomes t. 4 and finally added to it to the facilities. 5. Previously on "T." 4, 5 and 6 are respectively t. 5, 6 and 7. 6. Previously on "T." 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7. 8 and in it the words "Users, including means of smart network services" shall be replaced by "Users." 7. Previously on "T." 8 becomes t. 9. 8. Previously on "T." 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 10 and in it, 9. Previously on "T." 10 becomes t. 11 and in the end it is added as identification, location and presence services. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 200, as in para. 1, t. For example, the words "e.g. " shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 201. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 202. Under § 203, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 203. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 203: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Chapter 10a sets up Section V "Geographical studies for the deployment of the networks" with art. 181a " 181g: "Department V' Geographical surveys for the deployment of networks Art. 181a. (1) The Commission shall conduct a geographical survey on the coverage of electronic communications networks which may provide broadband access. The study shall be updated at least three years old. (2) For the purposes of the study under para. 1 The Commission may use the information available in the Single Information Point referred to in Article 1. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure and other relevant information. (3) The geographical survey under para. 1 shall include an examination of the current geographical coverage of broadband networks in the territory of the country for the implementation of the powers of the Commission. The geographical survey also serves the research necessary to implement State aid rules. (4) The geographical survey may also include a forecast of coverage of broadband networks, including networks with very high capacity on the territory of the country for a period defined jointly by the Commission and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. (5) The prognosis under para. 4 shall include all necessary information, including for the deployments planned by undertakings or public authorities of very high capacity networks and for the significant improvements or extensions of networks to reach download speeds of at least 100 Mbps. The Commission may require undertakings and public authorities to submit such information to the extent that such information is available and may be provided without causing an excessive administrative or financial burden. (6) The Commission and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall determine the degree of use of the information collected for the preparation of the forecast or part thereof in accordance with the powers conferred on them under this law. (7) The information collected in the geographical survey should have the necessary level of detail of the data, include sufficient information on the quality of the service and its parameters and be processed in compliance with the requirements of art. 40, para. 9. Art. 181b. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications may define areas with clear territorial boundaries for which, on the basis of the collected information and the forecast under art. 181a, para. 4 is found that, for the period of the respective forecast, no undertaking or public or municipal body has deployed and does not plan to deploy a network with a very large capacity or to improve or significantly expand its network to reach a download speed of at least 100 Mbps. The information referred to in the first sentence shall be public and shall be maintained on the information portal of the Single Information Point under art. 5, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. Art. 181c. (1) For the designated under art. 181b regions or the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications may invite businesses and public and municipal authorities to announce their intention to deploy networks with very high capacity for the period of the respective forecast. (2) Where the intention to deploy such a network of an undertaking or a public or municipal authority has been announced in response to the invitation, the authority referred to in para. 1, the invitation, may require other undertakings and public and municipal authorities to declare whether they intend to deploy networks with very high capacity or to significantly improve or expand existing networks in order to reach a download speed of at least 100 Mbps in the area concerned. (3) The bodies of para. 1 determine the data to be contained in the applications for intent in order to ensure a similar degree of detail as in the forecast under art. 181a, para. 4. (4) Based on the information collected under art. 181a, the authority under para. 1 inviting, notifying undertakings and public and municipal authorities who expressed interest in whether the designated area is deployed or is about to deploy or modernise networks, including those providing withdrawal rates below 100 Mbps. Art. 181. Acting under art. 181c shall be undertaken in compliance with the principles of efficiency, objectivity, transparency and equality, and no undertaking shall be excluded in advance. Art. 181e. (1) The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Commission and the other competent authorities responsible for allocating public funds for the deployment of electronic communications networks, for the development of the national broadband access plan, for determining the coverage obligations to which the rights of use of radio spectrum are bound and for verifying the availability of services within the universal service obligations, shall take into account the results of the geographical survey and all specified areas under this section. (2) When providing the results of the geographical survey to the bodies under para. 1 of the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications or of the European Commission the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Commission shall require the recipients to comply with the commercial secrecy defined under art. 40, para. 9, and inform the parties providing the information. Art. 181f. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall provide access to data from geographical surveys that do not contain commercial secrecy in accordance with Chapter 4 of the Public Information Access Act. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications through the Single Information Point under art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on electronic communications networks and physical infrastructure enables end users to determine availability and connectivity in a specific area with the necessary degree of detail to be able to choose an operator or service provider. Art. 181g. When collecting data and carrying out geographical surveys and forecasts, the Commission and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall follow the guidelines of the Body of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications on the coherent implementation of their obligations under this section. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 204, i.e. 3 words................................................................................. 3 and 4 are replaced by a new para. 3 and para. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2 "After the words "al. " A comma shall be placed and added as well as their quality parameters shall be replaced by a comma. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2, as well as their quality parameters. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 205. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 206. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 207. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 208. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 209.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u43	Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts reported so far from the version of Paragraph 174 of the Commission Report to the text of the importer for § 209. Vote 91 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Tzipov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is to extend the working time of the plenary until the adoption of this paragraph. 4 - First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Please vote on the proposal made by Mr. Tzipov. They voted 102 MPs: for 83, against 12, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Valkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u46	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 210: seven hundred and In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187 the following amendments are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission may require undertakings providing voice communications services by connecting at a fixed location and internet access services at a fixed location to take specific measures for disabled persons by providing availability and accessibility of related end-users, specific equipment and specific services improving equal access, including, where necessary, comprehensive call services or transmission services. 2. In para. 2 the word "Entrepreneurs" is deleted and the words "phone directory," "services" are deleted. 3. In para. 3 all over the word "Ends" shall be deleted. 4. Alinea 4 is canceled. 5. In para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Five o'clock. 6. In para. 6 the words "the service for which they have been developed' shall be replaced by "the service' and "the end' and the word "the service' shall be deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 211: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 188 is amended as follows: Art. 188. (1) The Commission may impose on one or more undertakings providing voice communications services by connecting at a specified location and internet access services at a specified location, obligations to provide all or some of the services under art. 182, para. 2 of the whole or part of the territory of the country in order to provide universal service throughout the country and in order to satisfy all justified requests from users for access to these services. (2) The Commission shall impose the obligations under para. 1 when taking into account the results of the geographical survey under art. 181a, if any, and any additional evidence found that the availability at a fixed location of a service for appropriate broadband access to the Internet and voice communications services cannot be provided under normal commercial conditions throughout the country or in different parts thereof. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 212. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 213.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u47	Mr. Wolf, if you want to read them together.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u48	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 214, 215, 216, 217, 218, 219 and 220. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 221: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the text before t. 1 shall be amended as follows: The entities providing voice communications services by connecting at a specified location and internet access services at a specified location and having obligations under art. 197, offer the relevant devices and services, where applicable, in a way that enables users to monitor and control their costs through: (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the provision of free detailed accounts, so that: (a) to enable verification and control of fees for the use of internet access services or voice communications services, and (b) consumers shall monitor their consumption and costs and exercise control over their accounts; (c) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." free selective limitation of outgoing calls, short text and multimedia messages with added value or, where technically possible, of other similar applications, the user may, by applying for a voice call provider free of charge, suspend certain types of outgoing calls or special short text messages and multimedia messages with added value or other similar applications from or to certain types of numbers; (d) c. 3 after the words "access to public', the words "public telephone services' shall be replaced by "voice communications' or "internet access services'; (e) c. 4 the words "public communications networks' shall be replaced by "public electronic communications network'; (f) c. 5 the word "Abona' shall be replaced by "the user' and the minimum level of Internet access services, including access to number 112 via the Internet'; (g) point 7 is amended as follows: "7." providing other means of controlling the cost of voice communications services or access to the Internet, including free warnings in the event of atypical traffic or excessive consumption. (h) create a t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. the possibility for third party invoicing to be deactivated by end users to deactivate the option of third party service providers to use the undertaking's internet access service invoice to charge their products or services. 2. A new para is being created. 2: . (2) The enterprises under para. 1 implement a system to avoid unwanted interruptions of voice message services or the appropriate broadband Internet access service for users, including an appropriate mechanism to verify interest in maintaining access to the service. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words the end users shall be replaced by the end users. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 222. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 223. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 224. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 225. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 226. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 227.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the texts which Mr. Valkov just read from the version of § 210 to the text of the importer for § 227 inclusive. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Vote 76 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Valkov, thank you for a moment. Mr. Valkov, Minister Zhelyazkov will now take the floor and you will continue after the vote is over. The word is the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov to introduce us to the concession at Sofia Airport. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, the leader of the Bulgarian Socialist Party raised questions that are... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u51	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u52	...from the competence and sectoral policy of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and I believe that from this high tribune it is appropriate to introduce you to the development of the concession contract at Sofia airport, as the Romans have said: I hope that my exposé will be clear and dispel many of the doubts that, to some extent, ignorance and unverified facts and incomplete facts give rise to various interpretations. The concession contract for the award of the concession at Sofia airport was concluded on July 22nd last year between the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and An airport operator, within the meaning of the procedure and the contract, will be the airport of Flughaffen Munich. The concessionaire is selected on the basis of an open, transparent, public competition procedure. Participation offers have submitted the largest airport operators in the world. The concession contract sets out the conditions to be fulfilled by each of the parties to the concession in order for the start of the concession to take place. The final date for the fulfilment of those ex ante conditions contained in the contract, which is public and located in the National concession register together with all relevant materials in relation to the concession, ergo, the date is up to 12 months after the signing of the contract, one year from 22 July 2020 is 22 July 2021. As I stressed, the contract together with the preliminary terms is publicly available under the National concession register. At present, a large part of the ex ante conditions have been met, namely: the concessionaire has provided the financing of the project; the Commission for Protection of Competition has approved the transaction; the Directorate-General for Air navigation, which is the national independent and regulatory authority in civil aviation, has examined and approved the proposed documents and is about to issue a single certificate for an airport and airport operator; an airport operator licence; an airport operator's certificate; a licence for an airport operator. The agreements with the public users are signed. These are the airport's border services. The concessionaire submitted plans for environmental and social management, the initial emergency plan at the airport. The agreements for the passage of all workers and employees are ready, and they will all be reassigned to the concessionaire. Among the preconditions is also notification to the European Commission. The concession contract has been sent to the European Commission and is currently being examined by the services of the same. Let us recall, ladies and gentlemen, the parameters of the concession. First, a concession fee of 550 million. lv. without VAT, or 660 million. lv. with VAT, this must be paid by the start date of the concession. The annual concession fee of more than two amounts shall be 32% of the total revenue of the concession for the year concerned, but not less than 24 million. 542 euros. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, including the construction of a new Terminal 3, as well as carrying out research and possible construction of a new runway for take-off and landing. Another commitment is to keep jobs. Another commitment is to ensure a high level of service and implementation of the modern measures to achieve airport safety and security, which is guaranteed by the only five-star operator in Europe. On 11 March last year, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 The pandemic has seriously affected our lives. Among the most affected sectors of the economy were transport and tourism. The European Commission explicitly repeatedly called on Member States to take all possible measures to survive, stabilise and ensure sustainable development following the pandemic of transport and tourism. Allow me briefly to provide you with information on the status of the aviation sector. Following the submission of offers for participation in the procedure following the CoVID-19 pandemic, significant changes in the aviation sector have occurred, which have seriously affected and negatively both airports and air carriers, air navigation service providers, all accompanying activities around the aviation industry, including the preparation, professional qualification of the aviation staff. Organisations such as the IATA, ICAO and S.C.I. are constantly expressing their concern about the rapid recovery of the aviation sector and calling on countries to take all possible support measures. According to the latest information of 12 February this year, announced by the International Council of Airports, the number of passengers served by European airports last year shrank by 70% and dropped to its 1995 level due to the consequences of the pandemic. European airports have returned to traffic since 1995. No sector can bear this shock, according to the statement of the Director General of the S.C.I. Olivier Genkovik. In recent weeks, traffic has decreased further, and there are no prospects for revival. Airports in the European Union are most hit, with their traffic shrinking by 73% in one year. Airports outside the European Union, but within the perimeter of the activities of the ECI, according to data, reported a lower drop of 61.9 per cent, leading in this trend are Russia and Turkey, which are less affected by the restrictions of movement. You see a serious advance in the development of neighbouring airports. We have been repeatedly accused of preparing to give Sofia airport to a Turkish company. So far, would not granting Sofia airport the concession of recognised European investment funds to a leading airport operator, such as Munich airport, be a better way to delay the development of Sofia airport and its uncompetitiveness towards the rest of the region? More optimistic analyses predict the recovery of traffic at 2019 levels at the end of 2024. In the middle of 2025, mostly for short- and medium-term flights, while pessimistic forecast a return to traffic at 2019 levels. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In addition, according to information from several days ago, one of the terminals at the new airport Berlin will be closed due to lack of passengers. According to the available official information, traffic at Sofia airport has shrunk to the level of 2 million 900 thousand service passengers last year compared to 7 million 100 000 service passengers for 2019. You can see that this is approximately three times. According to the analysis of the International Financial Corporation, part of the World Bank Group, there are serious structural changes in the aviation sector, accompanied by a serious decline in revenues and the risk of airline bankruptcy. On 27 October last year, the concession holder made a proposal to restore the economic balance of the concession. The proposal includes a delay in the payment of annual concession fees due for the first 10 years of the concession period for the last 10 years of the concession period............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The proposal includes an increase in investments of 608 million. EUR 624 million Euros. The concessionaire confirmed its commitment to pay the advance concession fee of 660 million. lv. with VAT, as well as the construction of a new Terminal 3 to the tenth year of the concession period. The concessionaire categorically stated that these are the conditions under which the funding institutions would finance the project. For your information, the project is funded by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development, the International Financial Corporation, is expected to include the European Investment Bank, as well as other international premium banks, and in the first ones I list, Bulgaria is a full shareholder and their participation gives us as a country sufficient guarantee and security for the viability of this project. The concessionaire's proposal contains commitments by the parties to the concession contract each year to monitor the situation until recovery of the 2019 volumes and to take adequate measures to adapt the economic balance of the concession. This proposal is brought to the attention of the Directorate-General for the European Commission and we are currently awaiting a decision of the European Commission services on this matter. Only then will I submit a report to the Council of Ministers, with which I will make the relevant proposal, which will be in the direction of restoring the economic balance of the concession. In a positive decision by the European Commission, there are two approaches. What happens if we do not accept the concessionaire's offer, and what happens if we accept the concessionaire's proposal? If we do not accept the concessionaire's offer, we will not receive the initial concession fee in amount, again, to 660 million. lv. with VAT this year, which will be paid by July this year at the latest. The payment of this remuneration by the concessionaire is a serious revenue in the state budget, especially in this situation. This is read in the State Budget Act. The direct financial revenue in the State budget from the initial remuneration will significantly exceed the direct revenue from the budget of the current airport operator. In total, for the past 20 years, the State-owned airport operator Sofia................................................ BGN, which distributed for 20 years is 4.5 million a year. Divided into 35 years, only the amount of the initial concession remuneration paid in advance this year means that the State will receive from 35 years in the future twice as much on an annual basis and paid in advance. If we do not accept the proposal, we will not have the concession fees per year, there will be no investment at the airport. The investments to be made by the State operator must be guaranteed by the State. The same for the last 20 years amounts to 244 million. BGN, including the construction of Terminal 2, and we have the commitment of the concessionaire to build the new terminal at the airport by the tenth year, to analyze traffic and the need for a new runway and to invest 638 million. EUR, that is, three times what it has done so far in the new history of our country. What is the risk of termination of the already signed contract? Therefore, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. State guarantees will increase the country's sovereign debt. The only way to compensate for the cost burden by the State operator is the revenue from airport charges. That is, if we do not accept the proposal, the only way to finance the operation of the airport is to increase the fees we witnessed last year, which is currently suspended by the GVA. In addition, the increase in airport charges makes the airport uncompetitive and directly opens to the development of neighbouring countries' airports. Such an approach can be categorically defined as a step towards bankruptcy for many years to come at the largest airport. The State will not receive a dividend from the current airport, but will have to commit itself to investment to maintain it in the form of State aid. If a new concession procedure is opened, the State will not receive offers with such undisputed advantages. For information yesterday, once again, we extended the deadline for submitting offers for the concession at Plovdiv Airport due to lack of interest. BSP's position has always been consistent in being against concessions. What signal would we send with our reluctance or the way we articulate the problem to our international partners about the investment climate in the country? What do we say about giving up 660 million at the moment at a time when this resource is extremely important? What would we say about giving up management at Munich Airport in order to provide again the same to a board of directors that, as we normally know, are appointed by criteria other than those which, for example, an airport operator like Munich uses? What would we say about our talk of spoiling, ending, or other things being spoken of according to the political situation, and others being not spoken of? In the aviation business, the government has made a number of measures, including similar to the airports in Burgas and Varna, with which we want to create an opportunity to revitalize this activity and not transfer the financial burden on the state. This is the point of attracting the concessionaire. The airport, you correctly note, is part of the critical infrastructure, an element of the national security system, and it continues to be. The airport will continue to operate the Bulgarian border services and the concessionaire, who will not own but only a user of the airport for the concession period, will invest in the same for the benefit of the public asset, will expand the same by increasing its value and providing a service within the meaning of its obligations under the contract. The element of critical infrastructure nowhere in the world is said to be public property, and in this case it continues to be public property, but only managed by an external manager. Isn't telecommunications an element of critical infrastructure?! Is energy not an element of critical infrastructure, or are we saying that they cannot be other than state property? I know I can't convince you and I can't win you for the concession. Your position has always been principled, and in this sense, being consistent, is worthy of respect. My goal was to come here, to provide you with these facts and to ask you to reason from the heights of your ambitions to participate in the management, for which the concession has extremely many advantages and no disadvantage. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u53	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u54	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u55	Let's thank the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for the information you've given us. What's the procedure, Mr. Ivanov? [[Heckling]] The way you're holding it, of course. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u56	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u57	Tell me, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u58	...as President of the National Assembly, when the Minister presented certain facts here, he had to be made a remark because the same Minister Mr. a long time ago, when this National Assembly approved the concession contract at Sofia airport, we heard quite other facts that were set out by this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u59	To me, what is the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u60	Yes, to you you should have made a remark to Mr. Minister not to cover up for us and not to expose a definitive corruption scheme, to find out if BDZ will receive... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u61	Mr. Ivanov, I have the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u62	Turn on his mike!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u63	Take it easy! I'll let him go, let me explain to Mr. Ivanov exactly what the procedure is, because he's talking about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u64	To you, in essence, to urge the Minister, you did not urge him to urge the Minister who is still in this Chamber to explain why, what is the benefit of the state and to explain to us here as dilettantes that you see, to take 600,000 million levs and then take nothing?! And for 30 years, the camel, the camel?! Are there such conditions, because when we were presented with the data on this contract... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u65	Mr. Ivanov, there is a procedure in which you can request a hearing or a parliamentary inquiry to the Minister on this subject. A declaration was made and the Minister correctly came and presented the facts by the Ministry. [[the speaker continues to speak with microphones off]] There's nothing to remind him of. You have the opportunity to use the Rules, to ask the Minister and all that is described there: hearing, parliamentary control. The Rules say exactly what can happen. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I understand what your remark is, but you're talking to the point, Mr. Ivanov. [[National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov continues to stand on the stand and speak with microphones off.]] Show me which Ruler points to the same thing that you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u66	Let go of his microphones!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u67	We're talking to Mr. Ivanov! [[Noise and lines.]] Take it easy! Mr. Stoynev, calm down! I figured out the procedure. Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[Relations of the National Representative Ivan Valentinov.]] Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, and thank you to the Minister. Moving on to § 228.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u68	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 228, i.e. 5 after the words "al." In the text before this entry, the text shall be added to the text before this entry. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 229. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u69	Colleagues, please! You can't even hear what it's about, let alone get to you. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u70	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 230. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 231 as in para. 2 the word "act" is replaced by "delegated regulation" and in para. 5, t. 3 the word "Species' is replaced by "Splitting'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 232, i.e. 4 concerning para. 8 the words "sured' are replaced by "successful'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 233. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 234. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 235. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 236. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 237. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 238: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 226 is amended as follows: Art. 226. (1) Before the consumer is bound by a contract or by a contract proposal, undertakings providing public electronic communications services other than transmission services in connection with a machine-machine shall provide the following relevant information to the requested service: 1. name/name, registered office and address of management, telephone number and e-mail address and website, if any; 2. type, description and basic characteristics of the services, including: (a) all obstacles to access to emergency call services or location information of the calling end user due to lack of technical feasibility insofar as the service allows end users to generate calls to a national or international numbering number; b) offered minimum levels of quality of services: (aa) for internet access services: at least information on delay, hesitation and loss of packages; (bb) for interpersonal communications services where they exercise control over certain network elements, directly or under an agreement on the level of service with undertakings providing network access: connection time, probability of failure, alarm delay; (c) information that no minimum levels of quality of services are offered where applicable; (d) for providers of internet access services and information required under art. 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2015/1120; (c) time limits for activation of the electronic communications service; 3. conditions and deadlines for payment of the services offered; the availability of deposits or other financial guarantees to be paid or given by the end-user at the request of the undertaking and the conditions under them; 4. details of the products and services intended for users with disabilities and how to obtain updates of this information; 5. procedures for dealing with complaints, applications and proposals of end-users, as well as means for initiating dispute resolution procedures, including national and cross-border disputes, in accordance with the Consumer Protection Act; 6. terms and arrangements for negotiation, fixing the amount and payment of benefits and reimbursements applicable in the event of non-compliance with agreed service quality levels, including, where applicable, an explicit indication of the rights of users that are applied in the event of non-compliance with agreed service quality levels, or if the supplier has not taken appropriate measures in the event of an incident, threat or vulnerability related to network security; 7. the right of end-users to decide whether to include their personal data in a directory and the types of data to be included under art. 258; 8. actions which the undertaking may take in the event of a threat or in response to incidents related to vulnerability or to network security; 9. information on what personal data are provided prior to the provision of the service or are collected when providing the service, without prejudice to the obligation under art. 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679; 10. maintenance of services for monitoring and control of the costs of internet access services and interpersonal communications services by the consumer, where such services are agreed or such an obligation is imposed in accordance with art. 237a, including prior notice before reaching the limit volume included in the tariff plan of the consumer and where the service included in the plan is fully used; 11. duration of the contract and terms of renewal and termination of the services and of the contract, amounts due for termination, if any, including: (a) all requirements for minimum consumption or minimum duration to benefit from promotional conditions; (b) amounts due relating to the replacement of a supplier and compensation and recovery arrangements, in case of delay or abuse of the replacement of the supplier, as well as information on the relevant procedures; (c) penalties and compensation relating to early termination of the contract, including reimbursement of expenditure incurred in relation to final devices and information on the unblocking and reimbursement of expenditure on a final device; (d) information on the right of prepaid service users to reimbursement upon request of the remaining credit in the event of a change of supplier; (e) the conditions, including the charges imposed by the supplier for the use of the final device provided, without prejudice to the right of end-users to use a final device of their choice in accordance with art. 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2015/1120; (f) for package services the conditions for continuation and termination of the contract, where applicable, the conditions for termination of the package or elements thereof; 12. prices of the services provided and, to the extent applicable, the relevant prices for activation of the electronic communications service, as well as for any recurring or consumption-related charges; 13. for services for access to the Internet and for public interpersonal communications services: (a) details of the specific tariff plan or plans under the contract: types of services offered, including, where applicable, information on their volume (megabytes, minutes, communications, etc.) for the specified invoicing period, as well as for the price of additional communications services units; (b) in the case of selected tariff plan or pre-defined service volume plans, the possibility for users to transfer any unused volume from the previous billing period for the next billing period where such an option is included in the contract; (c) mechanisms to ensure transparency of invoicing and monitoring of the level of consumption; (d) tariff information for each number or service subject to special price conditions; (e) for package services and packages, which include both services and end-users, the prices of the individual elements in the package, insofar as they are also marketed separately; (f) conditions, including fees, customer service, maintenance and customer service; (g) the means to obtain up-to-date information on all applicable maintenance tariffs and charges. (2) The information under para. 1 shall be provided by the undertaking in a clear and understandable manner on a durable medium within the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act or, where the provision of a durable medium is not possible, in a document provided by the undertaking which is easy to withdraw. An entity shall explicitly draw the consumer's attention to the existence of this document and to the importance of downloading the document for the purpose of documentation, future references and unchanged reproduction. (3) Upon request the information under para. 1 shall be provided by an accessible format undertaking for disabled users in accordance with current European Union legislation and law in the field of harmonisation of product and service accessibility requirements. (4) The undertakings under para. 1 provide end-users, which are micro enterprises, small enterprises or non-profit legal entities, the information under para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 228a, para. 1 unless they have explicitly given up on it in whole or in part. (5) As regards individual categories of services, the Commission may in addition request the information under para. 1, t. 13 point (d) to be provided immediately before the call is made or before contacting the service provider. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 239, as in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "the following data' shall be deleted and the words "the following data' shall be deleted, and the words "the following data' shall be deleted, and the words "the following data' shall be deleted. 2 the word "s' is replaced by the word "s'. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 240, i.e. 1 the word "supports' is replaced by "supplied'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 241. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 242 as in para. 1 the words "the Commission' shall be replaced by "the Commission' and in para. 4 the word "supports" is replaced by "supplied." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 243. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 244. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 245. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 246. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 247: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 230 is amended as follows: Art. 230. (1) Where the contract with the end-user is concluded under general terms and conditions, the general terms and conditions or amendments thereof shall be published by the undertakings on their website and made visible at their outlets or otherwise appropriate within a period of not less than one month before their entry into force. (2) Final users shall have the right to terminate their contract without additional costs where the provider of public electronic communications services other than interpersonal communications services without numbers notify them of any changes to the contractual terms proposed by it, including changes to the general conditions, unless the proposed changes are exclusively in the interest of the end user or are of an administrative nature and have no adverse effect on the end user or are directly imposed by the legislation in force, by European Union law or by a competent authority. (3) In the cases under para. 2 suppliers shall notify end-users of any changes to the contractual terms, including changes to the general terms and conditions, within a period of not less than one month before their entry into force and shall also notify them of their right to terminate their contract without additional costs if they do not accept the new conditions. The right to terminate the contract shall be exercised within one month of notification. (4) The user shall have the right to terminate the contract at any significant and continuous or frequent discrepancy between the actual indicators of the electronic communications service other than an Internet access service or an interpersonal communication service without number and the indicators specified in the contract. Undertakings should include in their contracts with end-users the definitions of the concepts of.................................................................................................... (5) In the cases under para. 4 The user also has all other legal remedies. (6) The notification under para. 3 shall be carried out in a clear and comprehensive manner on a durable medium. The Commission may determine the way and form of the notification. (7) Upon termination of a contract, end users shall have the possibility to return digital television equipment through a free and easy procedure, unless the supplier demonstrates that it is fully operationally compatible with the digital television services of other providers, including those to which the end-user has passed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 248. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 249 and shall delete the word "new'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 250 and shall replace the words of the new Section III. 230c. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 251, and the words "Create" shall be replaced by "In chapter fourteen, Section IV" shall be established, in para. 2 the words "the package" as specified in "the package" shall be replaced by "the package" and "the package" shall be replaced by "the package" and "the package" shall be replaced by "the package" in para. 5 the words "any" shall be deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 252: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 231 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence shall be created: The right to terminate the contract may be exercised within two months of the explicit notification to the consumer of the withdrawal of a television programme from the list under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. A new para is being created. 4. . (4) Alinea 3 shall not apply when the distribution of the relevant drop-out programme under para 3 is suspended. 1 in the territory of the country. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. 1.. 3.. are replaced by............................................................................................. 1.? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 253. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 254. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 255: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 231b is amended as follows: Art. 231b. (1) The Commission itself or through award shall provide free access to at least one independent means of comparison which enables end-users to compare and evaluate different internet access services and public interpersonal communications services with numbers and, where applicable, public interpersonal communications services without numbers, with regard to: 1. prices and charges for services provided against recurring or consumption-based direct cash payments, and 2. the quality of the provision of services when a minimum quality of the service is offered or the undertaking is required to publish this information under art. 235a. (2) The means of comparison under para. 1: 1. is functionally independent of providers of services under para. 1 ensuring that suppliers are equally treated in demand results; 2. clearly indicates the owners and operators of the means of comparison; 3. define clear and objective criteria on the basis of which the comparison is made; 4. use clear and unambiguous language; 5. provide accurate and up-to-date information and specify the date of the latest update; 6. is available to any provider of internet access services or public interpersonal communications services, providing appropriate information and including a wide range of proposals covering a significant part of the market and where the information submitted does not contain a complete market overview, this shall be clearly communicated before the results are displayed; 7. provide an effective procedure for reporting false information; 8. shall include the possibility of comparing prices, tariffs and the quality of the service provided between available offers to consumers and between these proposals and standard offers made publicly available to other end-users. (3) The means of comparison fulfilling the requirements of para. 2, upon request by the supplier of the means shall be certified under a certification mechanism designated by the Commission. (4) Third parties shall have the right to use information published by internet access providers or public interpersonal communications services free of charge and in open data formats for the purpose of providing such independent means of comparison. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 256. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 257: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 231d the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission may require undertakings providing public interpersonal communications services with internet access numbers or services to distribute free of charge and in a standardised format information in the public interest to existing and new end-users such as: 1. the most common means of using services for access to the Internet and public interpersonal communications services with numbers for carrying out illegal activities or spreading harmful content, in particular where it may affect the rights and freedoms of others, including violation of data protection rights and copyright and related rights, and their legal effects; and 2. the means of protecting against risks to personal security, privacy and personal data in the use of internet access services and public interpersonal communication services with numbers. 2. In para. 2 the words of the subscribers shall be saved. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 258. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 259. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 260. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 261, i.e. For example, the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 262, as in para. 2 in the text before t. 1 the words "Definitions and measurement methods' are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 263. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 264. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 265, i.e. 1 the words....................................................... and the words..................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 266: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 237b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 words can be deleted, and the words "End users with disabilities" are replaced by "End users with disabilities." 2. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." access to electronic communications services and related contractual information, including emergency and social services provided by number 116000 and other harmonised services of social importance provided by the number of that scope, equivalent to the access granted to the majority of end-users; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the word "Users" is replaced by "Users." 4. A t is created. 3: "3." access to the emergency services of disabled users who are nationals of another Member State of the European Union residing on the territory of the country equal to other end-users, where feasible, without prior registration. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 267, 268, 269, 270, 271. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 272, as in art. 242c, para. 1 the words "the title of fourteen' shall be replaced by "the chapter of this chapter'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 273 and 274, 275 and 276. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 277, i.e. 5, as regards para. 6 in the text before t. 1 the words of a security incident under para. 1, by significantly replacing them with.. as a significant incident related to security under para. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 278: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 243c the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "s'/or "s' are replaced by "s' or "s'; (b) c. 1 the words s/or the integrity of their services and networks shall be replaced by their networks and services; (c) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." to conduct security audits by a qualified independent body or by another competent authority and to provide the results of the audit to the Commission within 7 days of receipt of the report; the audit costs shall be borne by the undertaking. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) The Commission may give binding instructions to the undertakings under para. 1, including measures required to address the consequences of a security incident, or to prevent such a incident in the event of a significant threat, as well as deadlines for the execution of the required instructions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 279. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 280, and the words "Create" are replaced by "Create" in Chapter 15, Section I is created and in para. 3 the words "the authorities responsible' within the meaning shall be replaced by "the authorities responsible' determined in accordance with the procedure. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 281. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 282. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 283: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "suppliers" is replaced by "end users." 2. In para. 2: a) in the text before t. 1 the word "suppliers" shall be replaced by "end users" and "end users" shall be replaced by "supplied users"; (b) c. 1: (aa) in the text before the letter (s) the word (s) shall be replaced by the end users (s) of a contract under art. 227 (a.k.a. (bb) in the letter "supplied', the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (c) c. 2: (aa) in the text before the letter (s), the words (s) shall be replaced by the documents referred to in art. 260, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 260a, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (bb) in point (a), the word "bonata" shall be replaced by the final party to a contract under art. 227 (a.k.a. (c) in point (e) the words "from the subscriber' shall be deleted; (d) c. 3 words The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 284: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "supplier" shall be replaced by "finals" and "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplier" and "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplier." 2. In para. 2 the word "supplier" is replaced by "end user." 3. A new para is being created. 3 and para. 4. s (3) Where a final device is also provided at the time of conclusion of a contract, undertakings providing public electronic communications services shall be entitled to request information from other undertakings providing public electronic communications services concerning the existence of unpaid obligations of the final user to them. The requested undertakings shall provide the requested information where the following conditions are met: 1. the total amount of the end-user's obligation exceeds fifteen per cent of the minimum wage for the country, and 2. the delay duration of the end-user shall be at least 30 days, and 3. the undertakings in question have not been notified of a challenge to the obligation of the end-user by court order or, if the obligation has been challenged, the claim has been established on grounds and amounts with an effective decision of the court, and 4. the applicable limitation period has not expired. (4) The conditions, methodology and time limits for the provision of information under para. 3 shall be defined by joint instructions of the Commission and the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures provided for in Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 5. The creation of para. 6: For the purposes of identifying the end-user and/or his/her representative (author or legal representative), to ensure the accuracy of the data on the end-user/his representative, including the data under art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2, p. 2, as well as to prevent abuse, undertakings providing public electronic communications services may: 1. require the end-user or his representative to provide a personal document, including recording and storing data on the type, number, date, place and authority of the submission of the personal document; 2. perform a verification of the data under art. 248, par. 2. 2 letter (s) of the end-user or his representative, in the photo of the personal document presented, as well as of the data referred to in paragraph 2. 1 by reference to the information funds for the Bulgarian personal documents, with the exception of fingerprints, and in the single register for foreigners. Access to the consultation shall be made only by persons specifically designated by the undertaking. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 285: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 250 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the word "suppliers" is replaced by "end users" and the words "suppliers" are deleted. 2. In para. 3 the words of the subscribers shall be deleted. 3. In para. 5 the words "Users' shall be replaced by "End users'; the words "Users' consent' shall be replaced by "the consent'; and the word "Users' shall be replaced by "Users'. 4. In para. 6 the word "suppliers" is replaced by "end users." 5. In para. 7 the word "suppliers" is replaced by "end users." 6. In para. 8 words are replaced by the end-user, after the word "report" is added to theirs, and the words "to-user" are deleted. 7. In para. 9 words in their relations with consumers a mechanism by which users are replaced by a Under § 286, there is a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 286: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 5 words shall be deleted. 2. In para. The second sentence is then added:.. as well as a search for a declared general government search for a person who has been convicted of a serious criminal offence of imprisonment with an effective sentence, whose execution of the sentence has not been postponed in accordance with art. 66, para. 1 of the Penal Code and sentence has not been implemented, or which has been or may be put at risk by his life or health. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 287: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251c, para. 3 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." a reasonable period of time to cover the reference necessary to achieve the objective; Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 288: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251d, para. 6 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." a reasonable period of time to cover the reference necessary to achieve the objective; Under § 287, there is a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 287, which shall become § 289: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251d The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in a sentence first after the words 251c, para. The following shall be added to the list: 2. Alinea 2, t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." a reasonable period of time to cover the reference. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The heads of the structures under art. 251c, para. 1 or 2 shall notify the authority referred to in Article 1 or 2 without delay. 251d, para. 1, 2 or 4 for access made, apply the request and state reasons justifying the need for immediate access to the data under art. 251b, para. 1, specifying fully and comprehensively the facts and circumstances governing the existence of an immediate danger of committing a crime under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The data referred to in art. 251b, para. 1 provided by the order of para. 1 shall be immediately destroyed by the structures referred to in Article 1. 251c, para. 1 or 2 if a refusal by the authority referred to in Article is given within 24 hours. 251d, para. 1, 2 or 4 which is immediately notified to the undertaking providing public electronic communications networks and/or services.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u71	Thanks, let's stop here. Hey, guys, any speeches? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the texts of the importer presented by the rapporteur; the text of the importer with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission for texts submitted by the rapporteur and the creation of new paragraphs under the Commission report and in accordance with the relevant numbering; the version of § 287, which shall be numbered 289. Please, voting mode. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 5. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. We interrupt work for 30 minutes and continue again with the same bill. [[After the break.]] The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 288, which shall become § 290, in that regard. 1 the words "synthesis" shall be replaced by the text before that. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 289, which shall become § 291. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 290, which shall become § 292. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 291, which shall become § 293, and in that regard. 1 the words "synthesis" shall be replaced by the text before that. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 after the words "al." In the text before this entry, the following entry is added: 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 292, which shall become § 294. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 293, which shall become § 295. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 294, which shall become § 296. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 295, which shall become § 297: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 258 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 1, 2 and 3 are amended as follows: (1) The undertakings providing interpersonal communications services with numbers which draw up and publish telephone directory in electronic form shall include, free of charge, in telephone directory, the name or name, address and telephone number of end-users, a party to a contract under art. 227. The telephone directory may include additional data requested by the end-user, a party to a contract under art. 227. (2) The undertakings under para. 1 are obliged to inform end users in advance and free of charge a party to a contract under art. 227, for the purpose of the telephone directory in which their data will be included, and for any possibility of using them through the search functions of telephone directory in electronic form, allowing a name, name and address to be found only on the basis of a telephone number. (3) The undertakings under para. 1 are required to provide access to the relevant telephone number only with a complete and accurate input of a minimum volume of data by taking appropriate technical and organisational measures that prevent copying from the directory in electronic form. 2. In para. 4 in the text before t. 1 the word "Abonate" shall be replaced by "The Final Contracting Party" under art. 227. 3. In para. 5 the word "Abonate" is replaced by "The Final Contracting Party under art. 227. 4. In para. 6 the word "Abonate" shall be replaced by "The Final Contracting Party" under art. 227s, the words of the users to receive and the words of the subscriber shall be deleted. 5. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: . (7) The undertakings providing interpersonal communication services with numbers which provide numbers shall comply with all justified requests for the provision of the necessary information with a view to the preparation of telephone directory and the provision of reference services in a coherent format under conditions that are fair, objective, cost-oriented and equal. The information shall be provided in the event of explicit consent by the end-users of the Contracting Party under art. 227. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 296, which shall become § 298. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 297, which shall become § 299: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 260 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "Abonats" shall be replaced by "End users" by a Contracting Party under art. 227, they've got 'em. 2. In para. 2 the words "public telephone services" shall be replaced by "vocal message services" and the words "of the subscribers" shall be replaced by the persons referred to in para. 1.................................................................................. 3. In para. 3, p. 6 the word "bonata" shall be replaced by the final party to a contract under art. 227. 4. In para. 4. a) in the text before t. 1 the words "phone service' shall be replaced by "voice message service service'; (b) c. 4 the word "User" is replaced by "User." 5. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: . (5) The enterprises under para. 2 make it possible to obtain the detailed accounts in paper form or in electronic form. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 298, which becomes § 300. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov: A new § is being created... The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 301: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 261b, para. 2, p. 4 the words "make proposals" shall be replaced by "instructions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 299, which shall become § 302, i.e. The words "the text" shall be replaced by the text before the words "the text" shall be replaced by the words "the text" before the words "the text" are replaced by the words "the text." 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 300, which shall become § 303. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 301, which shall become § 304. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 302, which shall become § 305. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 303 which shall become § 306, i.e. 2 the word "only' shall be deleted and the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 304, which shall become § 307: supposed to be in In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "supplier' shall be replaced by "supplier'. 2. In para. 2 the words The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 305, which shall become § 308: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "supplier' shall be replaced by "supplier'. 2. In para. 2 the word "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" and the words "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" shall be replaced by "Users" The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 306, which shall become § 309: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 273 the word "interfaces" shall be replaced by "types" and the words "types" shall be replaced by "types" and "types" shall be replaced by "types" and "types" shall be replaced by "types" and "types" shall be replaced by "types" and "types" shall be replaced by "types" and "types" shall be replaced by "types" and "types" shall be replaced by The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 307, which shall become § 310. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 308, which shall become § 311. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 309, which becomes § 312. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 310, which shall become § 313. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 311, which shall become § 314: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 278 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "suppliers' intended to receive digital interactive television services on interactive digital television platforms' are replaced by "suppliers' radio receivers', including for cars and user equipment for digital television and the words "suppliers' are replaced by "suppliers'. 2. A new para is being created. 2? 4: . (2) Consumer equipment intended to receive a digital television signal offered for sale, rent or otherwise for use and capable of decoding digital television signals shall: 1. enables the decoding of such signals in accordance with a common European coding algorithm managed by a recognised European standardisation organisation; 2. display a free broadcast signal when renting equipment and the tenant complies with the terms of the relevant rental contract. (3) Digital television apparatus with an integrated screen with a visible diagonal over 30 cm which are placed on the market for sale or rental should be equipped with at least one open interface output (standardised or compliant with a standard adopted by a recognised European standardisation organisation or corresponding to a sector specification) which enables the simple connection of peripheral devices and the transmission of all relevant digital television signals elements, including information relating to interactive services and conditional access services. (4) A vehicle radio receiver intended for integration into new M-category vehicles which are placed on the market for sale or rental shall allow at least the reception and reproduction of radio services provided by terrestrial digital broadcasting. A radio receiver which complies with the harmonised standards to which the references are published in the...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 5 and is amended as follows: In this respect, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is incompatible with the internal market. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 6 and in it the words............................................................................................... 2s are replaced by the suppliers under para. The words "infinite' shall be deleted. 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 7 and in it the words............................................................................................... 2s are replaced by the suppliers under para. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 312, which shall become § 315. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 313, which shall become § 316. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 314, which shall become § 317: ...§ 317. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 280 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "public" shall be deleted, the words "public" shall be replaced by "public" and the words "public" shall be added after the word "public" and "public" shall be added. (b) c. 1 the words (c) c. 2 after the words "supplier service service service service service service service' is added to the end-to-end service, facilitate the change of supplier, portability of numbers and identifiers, as well as the words "suppliers of electronic service service service service service' shall be replaced by "suppliers' and the words "supplier'/or "supplier' shall be replaced by "supplier service service service service service provider'. 2. In para. 2 all over the word "s'/or "s' shall be replaced by "s'; the words "s' shall be replaced by "standardisation organisations'; and the words "standardisation institutions' shall be replaced by "standards'. 3. In para. 3 the words "s'/or "s' are replaced by "s' or "s'. 4. In para. 5 all over the word "s"/or "s" shall be replaced by "s" and after the word "s" shall be added "s" and "s" shall be added. 5. In para. 6 all over the word "s"/or "s" are replaced by "s" and the word "public" is deleted and after the word "s" is added "s" and "s" is added. 6. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: . (7) The application of standards and standardisation documents under para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2 and 3 shall not prevent access under Chapter 10 where access is possible. (8) The digital television equipment meeting the harmonised standards included in the list under para. 1, t. 2, or parts of these standards, shall be deemed to comply with the interoperability requirements under art. 230, para. 6 which are covered by those standards or parts thereof. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 315, which shall become § 318. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 316, which shall become § 319. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 317, which shall become § 320. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 318, which shall become § 321, i.e. 2 the words................................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 319, which shall become § 322: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 303, para. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: (1) In the exercise of its powers under art. 17 The Chairman of the State Agency "Electronic Management" uses, modernises and maintains in readiness to provide electronic distress messages within the meaning of the Law on Protection of Disasters, in the introduction of martial law, state of war or state of emergency within the meaning of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as in the announcement of an emergency situation within the meaning of the Law on Countering Terrorism communications facilities with special purpose............................................................................................................................................................................................................. (2) The undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services and having wartime tasks shall use and maintain the electronic communications networks to ensure electronic communications of disasters within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Disasters, the introduction of martial law, the state of war or the state of emergency within the meaning of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the announcement of an emergency within the meaning of the Law on Counterterrorism. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 320, which shall become § 323. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 321, which shall become § 324. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 322, which shall become § 325. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 323, which shall become § 326. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 324, which shall become § 327. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 325, which shall become § 328. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 326, which shall become § 329: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 324 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "shrinkling' or "shrinkling' are replaced by "shrinkling'; and the words "shrinkling' or "shrinking' are deleted. 2. In para. 2 the words.......................................................................................... 3. In para. 3 the words "shrinkling' or "shrinkling' shall be replaced by the words "shrinkling' or "shrinkling' and the words "or taking' shall be deleted. 4. In para. 4 the words.............................................................................................. 5. A new para is being created. 5. . (5) Who without registration performs electronic messages for which registration is required shall be punished with a fine of 3,000 to 30 000 BGN. 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it the words....................................................................................................... 72, as defined by the Commission and the Commission, shall be deleted. 7. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7. 8. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. 1 "5" is replaced by "al." 1.. 6............................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 327, which becomes § 330. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 328, which shall become § 331: "======References===========External links======*==============================================*================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================ Art. 326a is amended as follows: Art. 326a. (1) An undertaking providing public electronic communications networks or services which has committed an infringement under Section II of Chapter Seven shall be subject to a penalty of EUR 5000 to BGN 60 000. (2) An undertaking providing public electronic communications networks or services which violates the functional specifications for portability of the numbers adopted by the Commission shall be subject to a penalty of 5000 to 60 000 BGN. (3) An undertaking providing public electronic communications networks or services which has committed an infringement under Chapter fourteen, Section III shall be subject to a penalty of EUR 5000 to BGN 60 000. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 332: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 330 after the words "Art." The following entries are inserted in the Annex to The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 329, which shall become § 333: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 331 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 5 is canceled. 2. A new para is being created. 8. A company which does not fulfil a commitment in relation to access conditions and/or joint investments under art. 172nd, para. 1 to which the Commission has binding force on the basis of art. 172nd, para. 7, is punished with a penalty of 100 000 to 1 000 000 BGN 3. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9. 4. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10 and in it the words of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 June 2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union (OB, L 172/10 of 30 June 2012) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 531/2012', are deleted. 5. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 11 and in it, the words of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 laying down measures on access to open internet and retail prices for regulated communications within the European Union and amending Directive 2002/22/EC and Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 (OB, L 310/1 of 26 November 2015) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2015/2120', are deleted; 6. The creation of para. 12: A company or a public authority providing false, incomplete or inaccurate information under art. 181a shall either not be granted within the time limit set by the Commission shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. This is the last text I will put to the vote. Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. I will put it to a vote: the texts proposed by the rapporteur with the Commission's amendments; the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission for the texts of the importer; the texts of the importer; the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs with a text according to the Commission Report; and the corresponding numbering of the proposed and reported paragraphs. Vote 76 MPs: 72, none, abstention 4. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u73	ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 334b, para. 1, t. 4 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 330 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u74	Thank you. I am voting only on this text with the rejection of § 330 proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u75	Vote 74 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u76	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 331, which shall become § 334: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 334, para. 1 and 2 the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 332, 333, 334, which shall become paragraphs 335, 336, 337. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 335, which shall become § 338: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 336 words. 1 "6' is replaced by "al'. 1.. 7................................................................................ 326a (s) are deleted, the words "al' are deleted. 1 "5" is replaced by "al." 1.. 4... 338...................................................................................................... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 336, which shall become § 339: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 337, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 324 s. 335s. are replaced The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 337, which shall become § 340. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 338, which shall become § 341. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 339, which shall become § 342, following the words "Art." The following entries are inserted in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 340, which shall become § 343: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Point 1 is repealed. 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." "Abonate line' is the physical route used by electronic communications signals that connects the end point of the network to a distributor or equivalent facility in fixed public electronic communications networks. 3. Point 3 is repealed. 4. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." It is a specific form of access that applies between public network operators through the physical and logical interconnection of public electronic communications networks used by one or different undertakings to enable users of an undertaking to exchange communications with users of the same undertaking or to access services provided by another undertaking where such services are provided by the participating parties or by other parties having access to the network. 5. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. In order to ensure the proper functioning of radio navigation services and other safety radio services, it is necessary to ensure that the radio service is operated in accordance with the applicable provisions of international law, European Union law or national law. 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words (s) to be used for the routing of physical location calls at the end point of an electronic communications network (s) shall be replaced by the one used for the routing of the physical location calls at the end point of the network (s). 7. point 7 is amended as follows: "7." The information on the location of the caller and within the public mobile network are the processed data extracted from the network infrastructure or from the terminal that show the geographical location of the mobile terminal device and within the public fixed network the data on the physical address of the end point of the network. 8. point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. "Access' is the provision of facilities or services to another undertaking under certain conditions, on an exclusive or non- Exceptional basis, for the purpose of providing electronic communications services, including where they are used to provide information society services or broadcasting services. This includes access to network elements and adjacent facilities that may include connection of equipment by wire or wireless means (including access to the subscriber line and facilities and services necessary to provide services via the subscriber line), access to physical infrastructure, including buildings, channels and masts; access to relevant software systems, including operational support systems; access to information systems or pre-ordering databases, provision, submission of requests, maintenance, repair and charging; access to transfer systems of numbers or systems with the same functionality; access to fixed and mobile networks, including roaming; access to conditional access systems for digital television services; access to virtual network services. 9. Point 9 is canceled. 10. They're creating a t. 9a and 9b: 9a. A set of rules, technical requirements, standards and procedures that apply to the certification or conformity assessment of specific products, services or processes in the field of information and communication technologies is established and established in the European Union. 9b. "Experimental use' is the use of radio spectrum to test new radio equipment in operating conditions in order to promote technical innovation. 11. Point 10 is amended as follows: ..10. It is the ability of the facility to function satisfactorily in its electromagnetic environment without creating unacceptable electromagnetic interference on another facility in this environment. 12. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 13. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 the word "Women' is deleted and the words "swipes' are replaced by "swipes'. 14. point 15 is amended as follows: ..15. An electronic communications network shall be a network of transmission systems, whether based on fixed infrastructure or centralised administrative capacity, and where applicable, switching or routing equipment and other resources, including inactive network elements, which allow the transmission of signals through wires, radio waves, optical or other electromagnetic means, including satellite networks, fixed (with switching of channels and package switching, including internet) and mobile networks, electrical systems, in so far as they are used for the transmission of signals, networks used for radio and television broadcasting, and cable networks for broadcasting of radio and television programmes, irrespective of the type of information carried. 15. point 17 is amended as follows: Seventeen. A service normally provided through electronic communications networks, which includes the following types of services: internet access service; interpersonal communication service and services consisting wholly or mainly of transmission of signals, such as transmission services used for the provision of machine-type services and for distribution. The electronic communications service shall not include services providing or exercising editorial control over content transmitted through electronic communications networks and services. 16. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 19 and 20 all over the word "abonate" is replaced by "end-of-life." 17. Point 21 is repealed. 18. point 24 is amended as follows: It's 24 o'clock. "Interface for Applied Programmes" (API) is the software interface between the various applications provided by radio and television operators or service providers, as well as the resources of advanced digital television equipment for the provision of digital radio and television services. 19. Point 25 is repealed. 20. A t is created. 25a: 25a. A security-related incident is an event that has a real negative impact on the security of electronic communications networks and services. 21. Points 26 "28" are amended as follows: "26." It is a user who does not provide public electronic communications networks or public electronic communications services. 27. The end point of the network is the physical point at which the end user receives access to a public electronic communications network and which, when networks include switching or routing, is identified by a certain network address which can be linked to a number or name of the end user. 28. The ultimate device is: (a) equipment for sending, processing or receiving information intended for direct or indirect connection to a public electronic communications network interface; in both cases, directly or indirectly, the connection may be made by wire, by optical fibres or by electromagnetic means; the connection is indirect if other equipment is placed between the terminal device and the network interface; (b) equipment for satellite ground stations. 22. They're creating a t. 28a and 28b: It's 28a. The project is a project using radio frequency spectrum to test network facilities to put new networks and/or technologies into operation; to ensure technical compatibility of network facilities, the integrity and security of networks and the quality of services provided, as well as for scientific purposes. 28b. It is an event related to meetings, conferences, cultural and educational activities, trade fairs, entertainment (festivals, concerts, theaters, air demonstrations, etc.) , sports competitions, creation of films and advertisements, corporate video links, religious and other public or private events. The short-term event may be related to the production of programmes for direct transmission of news and information from the site of the event. 23. They're creating a t. 29a and 29b: 29a. A local radio network (RLAN) is a system for wireless access with low power and range for which there are unlikely interference with other similar systems deployed in close proximity to other users and which uses a harmonised radio spectrum on a non-exclusivity basis. 29b. A small enterprise is an undertaking within the meaning of art. 3, para. 2 of the Law on Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, except for the cases under art. 63, para. 3. 24. They're creating a t. 31a "31g": 31a. An interpersonal communication service is a service normally provided in a reputable manner that enables the direct interpersonal and interactive exchange of information on electronic communications networks between a certain number of persons, such as persons initiating or participating in communication, identify its addressee (s) and does not include services enabling interpersonal and interactive communication, which is only as a minor additional element directly related to another service. 31b. An interpersonal communication service which is not performed by a number or numbers of national or international numbering plans or which does not allow for a connection to a number or number of those plans. 31c. An interpersonal communication service for which a number or numbers of national or international numbering plans are connected or which enables a connection to a number or numbers of national or international numbering plans. The use of a number only as an identifier shall not be considered to be equivalent to the use of a number to make a connection by means of a number or numbers from national or international numbering plans and shall not be considered sufficient to designate a service as an interpersonal communication service with a number. 31 C.E. "International radio spectrum coordination, geostationary orbit positions with the relevant radio spectrum, radio frequencies and frequency bands' is a process of obtaining consent from all relevant administrations where such consent is required under the provisions of the International Telecommunications Union Radio Regulations. 31e. "International radio spectrum recording, geostationary orbit positions with the relevant radio frequency spectrum, radio frequencies and frequency bands' is a process of entering already coordinated geostationary orbit positions with the relevant radio frequency spectrum, radio frequencies and frequency bands in the International Telecommunications Union's International Network Register. 31f. "Mikro" is an undertaking within the meaning of art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, except for the cases under art. 63, para. 3. 31g. A very high capacity network is an electronic communications network consisting entirely of optical elements at least to a network point in a serviced area, or an electronic communications network capable of providing, under normal peak load conditions, similar network indicators with regard to the available bandwidth for transmission in rights and reverse direction, stability, fault-related parameters, delay and hesitation. Network indicators may be considered to be similar, irrespective of whether the perception of the end-user differs due to the different characteristics of the transmission environment to the end-point of the network. 25. point 32 is amended as follows: "32." ==References====External links=====External links=========External links===* "Earth analog/digital radio*" is a radio broadcast by terrestrial radio transmitters of analog/digital radio or television signals intended for reception by the population. Radio broadcasters of radio and television signals are part of the electronic communications networks for ground broadcasting. 26. A t is created. 32a: 32a. The most appropriate emergency call centre is an emergency call centre established by the Ministry of Interior to receive emergency calls from a specific area or of a particular type. 27. point 33 is amended as follows: It's 33. "Negeographic number' is a number of the National Numbering Plan, which is not a geographical number such as mobile service numbers, free access services and value added services. 28. A t is created. 34b: "34b." A new radio equipment is a radio equipment designed to test new technologies which does not comply with the requirements of the Act on Technical Requirements for Products and Acts on its Implementation and whose technical characteristics do not comply with those laid down in the rules of art. 66a, para. 3. 29. point 36 is amended as follows: ..36. "Identifying resources' are codes, numbers, names, addresses and identifiers used to provide communications services or to operate the networks through which these services are provided. 30. point 38 is amended as follows: "38." The emergency call reception centre shall be the physical place where emergency calls are initially received and for which the emergency call reception centre is responsible to the single European emergency call number 112 within the meaning of art. 7 of the National Emergency System Act with single European number 112. 31. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 41 the words "Public telephone service" shall be replaced by "Voice message service" and the words "in national or international telephone service" shall be replaced by "Voice message service" and the words "in national or international telephone service" shall be replaced by "Voice message service" and the words "in national or international telephone service" shall be replaced by "Voice message service" shall be replaced by "Voice message service" and shall be replaced by "Voice message service" 32. A t is created. 42a: It's 42a. The operator is an undertaking which provides or is entitled to provide a public electronic communications network or an adjoining facility. 33. Point 43 is amended as follows: It's 43. The resource shall be limited by natural resources or by technical reasons by numbering resources, radio frequency spectrum and geostationary orbit positions with the frequency spectrum concerned. 34. They're creating a t. 43a and 43b: 43a. "Package of services' within the meaning of Section IV of Chapter 14 includes two or more individual electronic communications services (mobile voice service, mobile access to the Internet, each of these services being provided by different numbers, fixed voice service, fixed internet access, television and/or other) offered by an undertaking together at a general price. 43b. A package of services and a final device (s) within the meaning of Section IV of Chapter 14 shall include a package of services offered together with a final device at a general price. 35. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 44 the words "operation and provision" shall be replaced by "operation, control or provision" and the words "the network" shall be replaced by "the network." 36. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 45 and 46 the word "Users" is replaced by "Users." 37. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 47 the word "tool' is replaced by "interpersonal'. 38. A t is created. 48a: 48a. "Useful" is a natural or legal person who uses or declares the use of a public electronic communications service. 39. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 49 words are deleted and finally added for purposes outside the scope of its occupation, business, service or occupation. 40. Point 50 is amended as follows: 50. "Entrepreneurship" is any natural person who is a sole trader or a legal person who carries out electronic communications under the terms of this law. 41. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 51 the word "Users" is replaced by "Users." 42. They're creating a t. 51a and 51b: ..51a. "Adjoining service' is a service to an electronic communications network or an electronic communications service that enables or enables the provision, independent provision or automated provision of services through that network or service or has the potential to do so and includes translation of numbers or systems performing equivalent functions, conditional access systems and electronic programming manuals (EPGs), as well as other services such as identification, location identification and presence. 51b. "Adjoining facilities' are services, physical infrastructure and other facilities or elements related to an electronic communications network or an electronic communications service that make it possible or enable the provision of services through that network or service or have the potential to do so and include buildings or entrances to buildings, wiring of buildings, antennas, towers and other supporting structures, channels, cable lines, masts, shafts and boxes. 43. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 52 the word "abonath' is replaced by "end-of-life'. 44. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 54 in the first sentence, the words "s'/or "s' are replaced by "s' and the second sentence is deleted. 45. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The word "use" is replaced by "use" and the words "uses" shall be replaced by "uses" where appropriate, under certain conditions. 46. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 61 words are replaced by a party to a contract with a party, and the words without being its subscriber shall be deleted. 47. point 63 is amended as follows; "63." It is the ability of electronic communications networks and services to withstand, at a certain level of confidence, actions that compromise the availability, authenticity, integrity or confidentiality of such networks and services, stored, transmitted or processed data or related services that such electronic communications networks or services provide or provide access to. 48. They're creating a t. 64a and 64b: It's 64. The emergency service is a national emergency service within the meaning of art. 19 of the Law on the National Emergency System with a single European number 112, which provides immediate and urgent assistance in situations where there is a direct threat to human life, to the health and security of the individual or society, to private or public property or to the environment. 64b. For the purpose of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 49. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 68 the words "abonate or user' shall be replaced by "end-of-life'. 50. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 69a (a) and (b) are deleted. 51. A t is created. 69b: "69b." "Instant amendments and additions to an authorisation' are amendments that substantially alter the nature of individual rights of use and can create a competitive advantage of the undertaking over other undertakings. 52. point 70 is amended as follows: 70. "Reference services' are electronic communications services enabling a final user to obtain a telephone number and other information on the individualization data submitted, a name and, where necessary, an address. 53. A new t. is created. 70a: It's 70. A small-range wireless access point is a small-range wireless access network equipment that: uses a radio frequency spectrum freely, after registration or after authorisation, or a combination thereof; can be used as part of a public electronic communications network; can be equipped with one or more discrete antennas and allows wireless access of users to electronic communications networks regardless of the main network topology (mobile or fixed). 54. Previously on "T." 70a becomes t. 70b, and in it, the word "supplied' is replaced by "supposed'. 55. point 72 is amended as follows: ..72. The conditional access system is any technical measure, authentication system or mode by which access to a secure radio or television service in an understandable form is provided in the event of a subscription or other form of prior individual authorisation. 56. They're creating a t. 72a and 72b: It's 72a. The internet access service is a public electronic communications service that provides access to the Internet and through it connectivity with virtually all end points of the Internet, regardless of the network technology used and the final device. 72b. A comprehensive conversation service is a multimedia real-time call service that provides a two-way symmetrical transmission of video, text and voice between users located in two or more locations. 57. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 73 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier." 58. point 74 is amended as follows: '74. An urgent call is a call received through interpersonal communications services between an end-user and an emergency reception centre in order to request and receive urgent assistance from the emergency services. Emergency calls include not only voice message services but also text messages, videos or other types of messages. 59. A t is created. 74a: It's 74a. The services of the information society are services within the meaning of art. 1, para. 3 and § 1, t. 3 of the additional provision of the Ecommerce Act. 60. point 75 is amended as follows: It's 75. A conditional access facility is any equipment or software designed or adapted to provide access to a secure service in an understandable form. 61. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 76 words are external attachments intended to be replaced by any external plugin intended to be attached. 62. point 77 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, A fixed voice message service is a voice message service of a defined quality provided between fixed end points of a public electronic communications network. 63. They're creating a t. 77a and 77b: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The frequency spectrum is a spectrum for which harmonised conditions are established in relation to its availability and efficient use through technical implementation measures in accordance with art. 4 of Decision No 676/2002/EC. 77b. The persons with disabilities are the persons within the meaning of § 1, p. 1 of the additional provisions of the Law on People with Disabilities. 64. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 78 the word "Users" is replaced by "Users." 65. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 79a the word "Concentrator' is replaced by "Concentrator'. 66. Point 80 is repealed. 67. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 83 the words "bonat and/or user' shall be replaced by "end-of-life'. 68. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 84 the word "supplier" is replaced by "end-end-to-end" and "end-to-end" is replaced by "end-to-end" and "end-to-end" is replaced "Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 341, which shall become § 344. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 345: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Criminal Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 159a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 5 words shall be deleted. 2. In para. 3 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." a reasonable period of time to cover the reference; 3. In para. 4 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." a reasonable period of time to cover the reference; The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 342, which shall become § 346: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on State Fees (prom., SG No. ...) in § 2 of the transitional provisions, the words......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 343, which shall become § 347, with the word The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 344, which becomes § 348. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 345, which shall become § 349: ...§ 349............................................................................ In the Act for the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...) Section VIa "Communication activity" shall be established in Chapter 2 of Part One with art. 29a: Section VIa Communication activities Art. 29a. (1) Communication activities are related to the construction, maintenance and use of a single radio communication environment for interaction between the structures of the Ministry of Interior and state authorities, state enterprises, state and municipal institutions, strategic sites of national security importance and voluntary formations under the Law on Protection of Disasters, in order to protect national security, protect the population and respond to disasters. (2) The activity under para. 1 is implemented through the National System for ensuring a unified communication environment for interaction between the state structures of the Republic of Bulgaria in the protection of public order, against crime and protection of the population in the event of disasters and accidents. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 346, which shall become § 350. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 347, which becomes § 351, with the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant Under § 348 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 348. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 348, which shall become § 352: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 56 is No permit is required for placing under para. 2 for short-range wireless access points complying with the requirements laid down in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1070 of 20 July 2020 laying down the characteristics of short-range wireless access points pursuant to Article 57 (2) of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the European Electronic Communications Code (OJ L 234, 21 July 2020) , hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1070 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, para. 1 is created t. 18: 18. short-range wireless access points which comply with the requirements laid down in Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1070. 3. In § 5 of the additional provisions, paragraph 3 shall be inserted. 86: ..86. The short-range wireless access point is equipment within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 70a of the additional provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications. 4. In the Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for construction of the territory ( SG No. 62 from 2020) Paragraph 9 of the Final Provisions is repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 349, which shall become § 353: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The regulations issued until the entry into force of this law shall remain in force insofar as they do not conflict with it. (2) The regulations governing the enforcement of the law shall be implemented in accordance with this law within 6 months of its entry into force. (3) The Council of Ministers shall adopt the ordinance under art. 33, para. 6 within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (4) The Communications Regulation Commission shall adopt the rules under art. 66a, para. Art. 3, Art. 127, para. Art. 2, Art. 230c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 243, para. 3 within 12 months of the entry into force of this law. (5) The Communications Regulation Commission and the Personal Data Protection Commission shall adopt the instructions under art. 249, para. 4 within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (6) The Communications Regulation Commission shall establish the register under art. 33, para. 6 within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 350, which shall become § 354: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The proceedings, including those concerning the issue of permissions for the use of a limited resource which began before the entry into force of this law, shall be completed in the order so far. (2) Extension of the period of authorisation for the use of radio spectrum for the provision of electronic communications via a terrestrial network allowing the provision of electronic communications services issued until the entry into force of this law shall be carried out once under the conditions of art. 114, para. In the event that the objectives of the law are not violated. (3) Requests for access to traffic data under the Law on Electronic Communications and the Code of Criminal Procedure shall be dealt with in the current order until the entry into force of this Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 351, which shall become § 355. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 352, which becomes § 356, and the word "the commission" is replaced by the The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 353, which shall become § 357: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Communications Regulation Commission shall send to the Authority of European Regulators in the field of electronic communications received before 21 December 2020 notifications under art. 75, para. 1 by 21 December 2021 The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 354, which becomes § 358, and the word................................................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 355, which shall become § 359: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Operators of electronic communications networks which have built reception stations until the entry into force of this law shall submit applications for registration together with the relevant documents within 9 months of the entry into force of this law. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 356, which becomes § 360: .............................................................................. The provisions of § 272 relating to Article 272 242b shall enter into force on 21 June 2022
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote the texts which Mr. Hristov read from the version of § 331, which became § 334 of the Commission Report, to the version of § 356, which became § 360, including. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been passed, and with that, the Law. Moving on to point three: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 5 February 2021. Mrs. Alexandrova, please give us an introduction to the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask for a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister Evgeni Stoyanov on both points that follow.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u79	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u80	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 102-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 February 2021. At its meeting held on 16 February 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 102-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 February 2021. The meeting was attended by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Department of Law and Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, who pointed out that in July 2019 the Ministry of Justice received an official notification letter from the European Commission under infringement procedure No 2019/2136 concerning the measures taken to introduce the requirements of Directive 2011/93/EU on the fight against sexual violence and sexual exploitation of children, as well as child pornography, and found a potential discrepancy in certain provisions of relevant Bulgarian legislation. It has been noted that the representatives of the European Commission under infringement proceedings No 2019/2136 found partially incorrect implementation of the requirements of Directive 2011/93/EU as regards the intended limit of maximum penalties for sexual abuse of children below the age for expressing consent to the use of coercion. Mr. Stoyanov pointed out that the non-compliance with the prescribed maximum duration of the punishment under art. 149, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 151, para. 2 of the Penal Code can be overcome by changing the maximum prescribed limit of imprisonment from eight years to ten years in order to achieve compliance with the amount of penalties laid down in the Directive. An addition to art. is also available. 350a of the Criminal Code, which contains a text governing criminal liability related to the use of high-risk veterinary medicinal products, but lacks a criminal provision for illegal import and distribution in the country of unauthorised and false plant protection products. Mr. Stoyanov emphasized that by providing for criminal liability for the implementation of the production and marketing of plant protection products not authorised in the country and for the transport across the border, the Republic of Bulgaria will fulfil the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 and Directive 2009/128/EC to introduce a system of effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in view of the high level of public danger of acts. The discussion was attended by MPs Krum Zarkov, Todor Baychev and Christian Mitev. Members of the National Assembly expressed their support for the Bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously with 21 votes for the Criminal Code, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code on 5 February 2021, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 February 2021. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. With the report of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, Mr. Dimitar Alexandrov will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u82	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 102-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 05 February 2021. At its regular meeting on 17 February 2021, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 102-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 05 February 2021. The meeting was attended by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice. He noted that the proposed draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code aims to fully implement the provisions of Directive (EU) 2011/93 on the fight against sexual violence and sexual exploitation of children, as well as child pornography, in relation to a non-compliance established by the European Commission (EC) in certain provisions of Bulgarian law, as well as the introduction of criminal liability for illegal import and distribution in the country of unauthorised and counterfeit plant protection products. Within the Commission's competence are the proposals relating to the full implementation of the requirements of Directive 2011/93/EU. Mr. Stoyanov explained that an official notification letter was received concerning a procedure for infringement of the European Commission, regarding the established partial incorrect implementation of the requirements of the Directive regarding the intended limit of maximum penalties for sexual abuse of children below the age for expressing consent to the use of coercion. The envisaged limit of maximum penalties in our national legislation for sexual abuse of children below the age for expressing consent to the use of coercion of eight years is lower than that required under the Directive. In this regard, in order to comply with the requirements of the Directive, an amendment is proposed in art. 149, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 151, para. 2 of the Penal Code, changing the maximum term of imprisonment from eight to ten years. The proposal relating to the Appendix to art. 350a of the Criminal Code aims to improve the effectiveness of countering illegal imports and the spread of counterfeit plant protection products containing prohibited substances and dangerous to both the health and life of people and the environment. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of a 18-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports asked the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 102-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u83	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. I propose at first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 102-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 February 2021. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the last item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX. Mrs. Alexandrova, would you like to introduce us to the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2021. At its meeting held on 16 February 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2021. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Department of Law and by the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors, Mr. Georgi Dichev, Chairman of the Council of the Chamber, and Mr. Stoyan Yakimov, Vice-President of the Council of the Chamber; by the Supreme Council of Law, Ms. Ralitsa Negentsova, Chairman, and Mrs. Valya Gigova, Member. The bill was presented by Mr. Stoyanov, who pointed out that with its adoption it will ensure the construction of an electronic information system National Register of Transcripts, through which information on movable objects with registration on which supports are imposed will be centralised. He added that the establishment of the register will ensure that stakeholders are informed about burdens and restrictions on movable property, will increase security in transfer transactions and will optimize enforcement. The proposed changes will provide up-to-date information and a description of the stashed item, thus preventing the possibility of disposal of it. Real-time notifications are also envisaged by electronic means to interested parties in the imposition of a ban or lifting it, as well as in the event of a change in the circumstances recorded. The adoption of the draft law aims to provide electronic administrative services to each person, subject to the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance, providing that the National Register of Prosecutions and the electronic public auction system function on the basis of a common information system. The High Lawyers' Council welcomed the legislative initiative by expressing the need to settle the application of the recording of the report and preciseing the rules for keeping the information registers. Members of the National Assembly Krum Zarkov and Christian Mitev took part in the discussion. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, they will abstain and will not support the bill. Mr. Mitev added that the Bill pursues legitimate goals, noting the need to refine the texts between first and second readings. In response to the questions asked Mr. Stoyanov explained that the registration in the register will have a publicity action, as well as that the bill is in implementation of the updated roadmap for implementation of the updated e-government development strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2019. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 7 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on 21 January 2021, the Draft for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, No 102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2021. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-24.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. Colleagues, I am putting to the first vote a bill supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2021. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted, and this is running out of agenda for today. Tomorrow's regular plenary session, February 25, 2021, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
