ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-28.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! To clarify that today we are already voting with biometrics, i.e. those who do not yet have biometrics data, will be able to continue to vote today without biometrics, but these are several people from each parliamentary group, so please keep that in mind. To specify once again for those who have already given data on the biometric vote that registration is done by placing your finger on the scanner. We have the necessary quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] We are going to vote on the National Assembly Work Programme. The agenda proposals shall be as follows: "1." Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly (prom., SG No. 35 of 2017, as amended, No. No. 34 of 2018, Dop., No. This appropriation is intended to cover It was introduced by the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and for amendments to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly (prom., SG No. 35 of 2017, as amended, No. No. 34 of 2018, Dop., No. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Continue, vote on the name and text before § 1. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties. It was introduced by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 15 April 2021. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code. It was introduced by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 15 April 2021. Adopted in the first vote on 23 April 2021. 4. Draft decision on the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry for the establishment and verification of the legality of the construction of all sites located on the territory of Lesopark "Rosenets", district "Krymorie", municipality of Burgas, and all actions taken by representatives of the political forces and employees of NSO last year. It was introduced by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 21 April 2021 and Draft Decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning the actions and omissions of the competent authorities concerning illegal constructions and sites in the territory of Lesopark. It was introduced by Dimitar Naydenov and a group of MPs on 21 April 2021. 5. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the Investigation of facts and circumstances in the use of tear gas, the use of force and assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens. It was introduced by Armaan Babikan and a group of MPs on 22 April 2021. [[The National Representative Arman Babikan wants the floor.]] What procedure? I propose that we vote first on the Programme for the week and then on proposals to include new points. Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-28.u2	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-28.u3	They voted 196 MPs plus 1.. 197: for 86, against 8, abstention 102 plus 1... 103. Thus, the Work Programme has not been accepted. [[Laughter]] It's like we've never been in a situation like this before, at least I haven't. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Wait, wait, wait! The first thing we can possibly do is ask for a re-vote and possibly some groups to reconsider. Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-28.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Looks like someone's got to ask for a re-vote. Here, I want a re-vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Goons out! Part of the vote couldn't be realized by some of the machines we were pushing. In fact, I just wanted the floor to request the inclusion of BNT 1 cameras because of an important item on the agenda that affects the constitutional rights of all Bulgarian citizens, given the Election Code. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "You have no right! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-28.u5	I believe that Mr. Babikan has reason, because for the first time, some of his colleagues are voting with biometrics and it is normal to have difficulties. I saw some colleagues fail to vote. I'll wait a little longer. I would like to rethink the proposed work programme of the National Assembly by stating again that it is necessary to first place your finger on the scanner, then unlock the device and then you can vote for....................................................................................... Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-28.u6	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-28.u7	They voted 207 MPs plus 1 " 208": for 79, against 6, abstention 122 plus 1 " 123." I don't think we've ever been in a situation like this before, but there are times like this. [[Applause from ICN and ISV.]] Dear colleagues, I think there is no need for applause in any direction whatsoever. I don't think this is the time for applause. Since the weekly programme has not been adopted, therefore, the National Assembly has nothing to look forward to this week, but I propose to gather the Conference of Presidents and in general... [[Heckling]] Yeah, there can't be a meeting right now. In principle, you know that the President of the National Assembly could schedule an extraordinary meeting at any time with the respective agenda. Let's hope this can happen. With this, I must practically close the meeting and you will wait for news from the Conference of Presidents. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
