ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! 215 MPs have been registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] First of all, I present to you the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for 22 December 2021. After consultations of the Conference of Presidents, the following Project for the Programme was specified: "1." Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the machine voting in the elections on 14 November 2021. Importers 2. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the anti-epidemic measures brought into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria against COVID-19. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. 3. Choice of Standing Committees of the National Assembly. Projects of decisions with importers Georgi Svilenski, Andrey Gurov, Miroslav Ivanov, Vasil Stefanov, Rena Stefanova, Victoria Vassileva, Lubomir Karimanski, Nikolay Radulov. 4. Hearing of the Minister of Interior on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the received signals in the Ministry of Interior, the actions taken and the results thereof related to the detection of violations in the opening of mobile polling stations for the elections for President and Vice President and MPs on 14 November 2021. 5. Hearing of Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Return from the European Commission to the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan presented by Bulgaria, as well as the preparation phase of the Partnership Agreement for the programming period 2021 - 2027 and the operational programmes to be financed by the Cohesion and Structural Funds of the European Union during the programming period 2021 - 2027. Honourable Members, please vote on the proposed draft programme. They voted 210 MPs: 163, 26, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yesterday, my fellow Members and I submitted a draft decision to introduce a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers of electricity. Today at 5:00 p.m., the current will cost BGN 1064. And pennies. It's a record for all time! Not only is it a record for all time, but it is 10 times more than 1000% more than the business price expected for this period of the year. In this regard, Mr President, I suggest that you include on the agenda the draft decision that we have tabled because I believe that this is the most important topic that the National Assembly should consider this week. Businesses and people are not interested in the personal composition of the committees or whether you will give GERB religion or anything else, but are interested in what the price of electricity will be and will there be a compensatory mechanism. There is a significant difference between what the Council of Ministers has to offer and the Draft Decision Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u3	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. In the order of art. 47, para. Two proposals for inclusion on the agenda have been received by 3 of the MNS. The first proposal was received by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova, proposing to include a new point in the upcoming weekly programme... Project of a decision to oblige the Minister of Health to revoke the requirement to provide a valid document for vaccination.. Green certificate, under the conditions described in Order No RD 01-973 of 26 November 2021 and No 47-154-028 of 10 December 2021. The project was submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The proposal will not be put to the vote because I believe that it does not meet the requirements of art. 47, para. 3, namely to submit a report, but to withdraw the time limits for its examination from the joint Standing Committee. I believe that the project must first be examined by the Standing Committees. Once we create them, life and health, today, will be distributed. This is on the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova. Also on the grounds of art. 47, para. 3 a proposal was submitted by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev and included as a point Draft decision for introducing a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers in the electricity market, No 47 154 023 of 21 December 2021. The project was submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. My opinion is identical and I believe that the proposal for inclusion on the agenda does not correspond to art. 47, para. 3, I mean, they didn't run out of time. Once the Standing Committees are set up, it will be allocated. [[Noise and lines.]] First, the People's Representative Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, yes, these are the texts of the Rules of Procedure, which have been acting not since yesterday, but has always acted. Officially, all draft decisions or bills on which the time limits for discussion and voting have not expired cannot be discussed and voted in plenary. However, the two topics that are put to the National Assembly and in plenary by our parliamentary group are not any legislative initiatives that can tolerate a delay in time, as the requirement for a green certificate in the Council of Ministers has been postponed by 40 days and in practice it becomes absolutely pointless. The project of a decision on electricity prices for the business cannot be postponed. Mr. Dobrev quite correctly and specifically explained what an urgent decision by the National Assembly requires. On top of that, there is a Temporary Commission that can examine not only the Draft Decision and make decisions, but also be convened immediately, such as in today or in tomorrow's draft decision to be presented, i.e. to be presented in the National Assembly Programme. However, this is not happening. I don't know what arguments I have to make other than these formal ones, although by the power of the Rules of Procedure, but Mr. President, I appeal to you to reconsider the arguments. If necessary, the Temporary Commission, which has already been set up last week, will hold an extraordinary meeting and discuss this issue. As Mr. Dobrev said, today the price of electricity for the business will be over 1000 leva. for megawatts, and we are dealing with some issues of not so much importance to the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u5	Thank you. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. I know the wording of the Rules of Procedure. 47, para. 3. You can indeed refer to formal reasons and to this text of the Rules in order to reject our proposals for consideration for today. If you look at art. 57, para. 5, in exceptional circumstances and at your discretion, you are entitled to include this item on the agenda, for example. I understand that your judgment is not to include it, but I would like to point out to you that I think your judgment is wrong. I ask you once again to consider whether you should not still include this item on the agenda. While writing the reasons for this proposal yesterday, the price of forward for electricity in Bulgaria was an average of about BGN 719. for the first three months of the following year, which is about 40% more expensive than the price so far for December. And only until you decided not to include this item on the agenda, forward price has increased by another 20%! If these aren't extraordinary circumstances, I don't know what is. The situation is indeed extraordinary, Mr President, and in the manner of conduct, I urge you again to make an assessment of this issue, because otherwise the negative consequences of your improper judgment will weigh on your conscience. This week is the last time we have the opportunity to consider this draft decision. As I recall, in last week's vote, we voted to meet only on 4 January next year, and until then, in the next two weeks, I am convinced that there will be very few businesses that will fail. It's not just about businesses, it's about water companies, hospitals, kindergartens, municipalities and so on. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'm taking procedure the way it's led. I want us to read art together. 47, para. 3, which you referred to just now. For the proposals for inclusion it is clear how they are made, and so on, but the sentence, which is really important, is the following: As points in the forthcoming programme, drafts and drafts for other acts on which no reports have been received, but the deadlines have expired. That is, those in which the deadlines have not expired and those in which the deadlines have expired. So the opinion isn't right. If this word is not a word, but a letter is not a word, you would be right, but in real terms, the rules we adopted last week say explicitly that you can put to the vote. Put it to the vote. If you reject it, you'll still have the same effect. Don't hide! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u10	Mr. Chairman, I am again making the agreement that I am speaking for myself, and I will also say that I will talk about the green certificate, and the third thing I will specify is that in the coalition agreement we do not have a green certificate agreement, so speculation on the subject of a coalition agreement is by journalists and opposition, if you would like to save it. GERB's proposal for the green certificate makes sense to discuss it, because in society there is an extremely sensitive topic, as a naked nerve is for the people of the country. I would just like to say to Mr. President that in the previous two National Assemblys, when Mrs. Iva Miteva was president when there were such proposals, even though she had formal reasons to stop them, she did not do so, but allowed the House to decide. Because in the end, it is the House that must make such decisions, as we are the National Assembly and all members of it are equal, and there is no one equal than the equal. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Any other procedures? I won't. Thank you! My decision on the issue of putting the two points to a vote is final: I do not allow them to vote. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] , like, I hope, we will also have permanent committees today, so in the most urgent order they can discuss the really pressing issues and can be put precisely in the order specified by Mr Dobrev...............................in the Programme of the National Assembly for the week, as long as there is already a draft decision under consideration. That's it. We continue with the oath of MPs. Decision of the Central Election Commission has been issued: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1054-NS 20 December 2021 Subject: Announcement of Dimitar Kolev Gochev as MP from the Twenty-fourth Election Region "Sofia," in the 47th National Assembly. With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-121 of 20.12.2021 of the CEC was received decision of the National Assembly of 17.12.2021, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of the National Representative Radostina Alexandrova from the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia, raised by Coalition. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 47th National Assembly of the Twenty-fourth Election Region, Sofia, Dimitar Kolev Gochev, EGN..., from the list of Coalition. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. Decision of the Central Election Commission has been issued: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1056-NS 20 December 2021 Subject: Announcement of Ventslava Milchova Lyubenova and Nikolay Georgiev Angov as MPs in the Sixteenth Election Region of Plovdiv, in the 47th National Assembly. With a letter in my letter. No NS-02-121 of 20.12.2021 of the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 17.12.2021, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of the National Representative Hristo Yordanov Daskalov from the Sixteenth Election Region of Plovdiv, erected by Coalition. By Decision No 1034-NS of 14.12.2021, the Central Election Commission announced the next in the list under No 6 Ventsislava Milchova Lyubenova as MP for the time during which Kiril Petkov Petkov served as Prime Minister. The Central Election Commission in implementation of art. 302 IC and taking into account Decision No 8 of 16 May 1993 under the WC No 5/1993 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria accepts that Hristo Yordanov Daskalov's vacant permanent term should be announced next on the list Ventislava Milchova Lyubenova, and at the place of the elected Prime Minister Kiril Petkov for the time during which he performs the functions of Prime Minister, Nikolay Georgiev Angov under No 7 on the list of Coalition We continue the Change in the Sixteenth Election Region Plovdiv. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Election Code and Decision No 8 of 16 May 1993 under the Code of Conduct No 5/1993 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 47th National Assembly of the Sixteenth Election Region of Plovdiv, Ventsislava Milchova Lyubenova, EGN..., from the list of Coalition... Announcing as MP from the Sixteenth Election Region of Plovdiv, Nikolay Georgiev Angov, EGN..., under No 7 of the list of Coalition "We are continuing the Change" at the place of Kiril Petkov Petkov for the time during which Kiril Petkov Petkov performs the functions of Prime Minister. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. Decision of the Central Election Commission has been issued: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1057-NS 20 December 2021 Subject: Announcement of Ivan Kosev Manev as MP in the 15th Election Region of Plevenski in the 47th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No NS-02-121 of 20.12.2021 of the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 17.12.2021, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of the National Representative Ivan Markos Hristnov from the Fifteenth Election Region. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 47th National Assembly of the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski, Ivan Kosev Manev, EGN..., from the list of Coalition... The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. Decision of the Central Election Commission has been issued: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1060-NS 21 December 2021 Subject: Announcement of Petar Vassilev Kosev as MP in the Twenty-fourth Election Region Sofia, in the 47th National Assembly By Decision No 1048-NS of 15 December 2021, the Central Election Commission on the basis of art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code has declared Lyubomir Yordanov Popyordanov as elected MP in the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia, under No. 6 of the Coalition list. With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-122 from 20.12.2021, the President of the National Assembly applied to the Central Election Commission an application with Еc. No AD-47-1194-4 from 20.12.2021 of the National Assembly of Lyubomir Yordanov that he does not wish to be a MP in the 47th National Assembly. In the light of the foregoing, the Central Election Commission accepts that there is essentially a refusal of Lyubomir Yordanov Popyordanov to enter into authority and to take an oath as a representative of the National Assembly according to art. 76, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code and Decision No 1 of 16 January 1992 under the Code of Conduct No 18/91 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 47th National Assembly in the Twenty-fourth Election Region, Sofia, Petar Vassilev Kosev, EGN..., under No 9 of the Coalition's list. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. Decision of the Central Election Commission has been issued: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1059-NS 21 December 2021 Subject: Announcement of Mladen Todorov Zapreyanov and Lozko Stefanov Lozev as MPs in the twenty-nineth election district of Haskovo, in the 47th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-122\1 of 20.12.2021 The President of the National Assembly applied to the Central Election Commission an application with Еc. No AD-47-1194-3 from 20.12.2021 of the National Assembly by Ivaylo Georgiev Staykov that he does not wish to be a MP in the 47th National Assembly. In the light of the above, the Central Election Commission accepts that there has been a refusal of Ivaylo Georgiev Staykov to enter into powers and to take an oath as a representative of the National Assembly according to art. 76, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Insofar as CEC Decision No 1035-NS of 14.12.2021, apart from Ivaylo Georgiev Staykov, as a member of the National Assembly was named the next member of the list under No 4 Mladen Todorov Zaprianov at the place of Atanas Petrov Atanasov for the time during which Asen Vasilev or Atanas Petrov Atanasov performed the functions of Minister, the CEC considers that because of the refusal of Ivaylo Georgiev Staykov to enter into the mandate of the People's Representative by this decision Mladen Todorov Zaprianov should be declared a representative of the National Assembly at the place of Asen Vaskov Vassilev and Lozko Stefanov Losev should be declared a national representative at the place of Atanas Petrov Atanasov. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code and Decision No 1 of 16 January 1992 under the Code of Conduct No 18/91 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 47th National Assembly in the twenty-nineth election district of Haskovo, Mladen Todorov Zapreyanov, EGN..., under No 4 of the list of Coalition Announcing as a MP in the 47th National Assembly in the twenty-nineth election district of Haskovo, Lozko Stefanov Lozev, EGN..., under No 5 of the Coalition's list We continue to change the position of Atanas Petrov Atanasov for the time during which Assen Vasilev or Atanas Petrov Atanasov perform the functions of a minister. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. I ask the Quaestors to invite the persons to the oath room. [[Everyone gets up.]] I'll take the oath. Repeat after me, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u12	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u13	For a statement please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear compatriots! For nearly two years normality in Bulgaria has been put to the test. We are witnessing an attack on common sense, conducted by all means of modern propaganda. Under the pretext of caring for our health, now four governments of Borisov, both of Radev's employees and Petkov's present are obviously only seeking one thing: filling the quotas set by the European Union for vaccinated Bulgarian citizens. However, care is actually a heartless filling of excel tables in which the figures are people and their fates. For the drivers obviously there is no demographic catastrophe, flying electricity prices for the industry, hospital apocalypse, educational disaster, the important thing is only one vaccination at all costs, filling tables, unwavering rejection of tasks set by the masters. Because of this vaccination, wards were closed, were transformed into such as hobnobs, stopped and still stopped planning operations, the access of thousands of Bulgarians to basic but also lifesaving health services was stopped. Two years hasn't stopped for the sick and the dead of the virus, without telling how much they've gone away from this world because of irregularities in our health care system and trade in health. All this pressure has affected the physical and mental health of the Bulgarians, exerting pressure in all possible ways. You can't even work normally anymore. Entrepreneurs can't live without high electricity prices, but also unpredictable. Will they have a chance to work properly today, tomorrow, in a month, it is unclear. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian workers were forced to vaccinated themselves so that they would not lose their jobs in conditions of increasing unemployment. All national media are forced on a daily basis to report diseased and deceased by the CIVID-19. There is a frightening continuity between the governments of Borisov, Radev and Petkov. While they allegedly criticize each other, they conduct the same policies. There are many examples in this regard. But there is one thing in which Radev and Petkov surpassed Borisov - these are discriminatory measures, and it seems that this does not bother them at all. The absurd and discriminatory green certificate, which was introduced in just one day, so that President Radev, when he visited Brussels to say that he had introduced it, was followed by a mass forced vaccination, which to this day is cynically presented as voluntary. They were shown and continue to show queues at points where vaccinated citizens say they do not want to be vaccinated, but they cannot work without a certificate. To this day, the government, and not just them, explain that vaccination is voluntary while it is monstrously forced. The truth is that the government exercised and continued mass repression over millions of completely innocent Bulgarian citizens, forcing them to do things contrary to their will. Only the truth can never be hidden. While with us the so-called fourth wave begins to subside, which is normal for any flu epidemic, we see what happens in the Netherlands, where 85% of the fully vaccinated population are again closed. Pretty soon this is expected to happen in Denmark and the UK, while Austria, Germany, and literally in the last few hours and Russia have imposed even more serious restrictive measures on their unvaccinated population, talk about mandatory vaccination from next year. We can easily compare what is happening there with what is happening in Bulgaria and look for a response in the low percentage of people who have placed the experimental liquid here. Is it a coincidence that the low rate of vaccine recipients is clearly related to the low percentage of diseased? For critical thinkers, it's obviously no coincidence, and they're becoming more and more when we talk about vaccination. Since in this conversation we sane thinkers are always blamed that we do not believe in science, I ask: why ignore the science that says that during an epidemic vaccination should not be carried out? Are we neglecting her out of care for the health of the Bulgarians or out of care for the care of the Brussels bureaucrats?! With the same concern, why didn't you take care of the health of the cancer patients, the health of the people on haemodialysis, the conduct of an information campaign for donation? Few people know that in Bulgaria people expecting transplants die on the waiting list because we are the country in the European Union, which has the lowest percentage of donor transplants. Why, while we see what is happening not only in the world, but also in Bulgaria, the government continues to conduct an information campaign to raise the interest in vaccination by talking about a third, a fourth dose, and for several days, vaccination of children over five years? That is why we at ARGUING strongly state that we will not allow the introduction of mandatory vaccination. We insist that vaccination against Kovid be only voluntary and neither rights nor privileges nor obligations nor restrictions arise from it! We stand against putting experimental fluids on children, for which for several days the government propaganda has been hard and, on a given signal, started talking! Since the so-called green certificate has definitely failed and proved its discriminatory nature and worthlessness, the time to tolerate more this lawlessness and arbitrariness over us Bulgarians are over. We've run out of patience. Here, from this tribune, I would like to state the following: we are enabling the government to cancel both the green certificate and all other restrictive measures as soon as possible. Since we are on the eve of the best Bulgarian Christian holidays, we will show understanding and tolerance, allowing the cabinet to think even better about its actions in the days until the first working week of January. If the government refuses to comply with the desire of the majority to remove the certificate and not to harm the children of Bulgaria, we will call on the Bulgarian people to exercise their powers directly and to turn democracy from representative to direct, through the door of the National Assembly along with the MPs from the National Assembly to enter thousands of Bulgarians. If you don't want to approach with reason, you'll have a revolution! Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u15	Thank you. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I shall inform you of the bills and draft decisions submitted for the period from 15 December to 21 December including: Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process during the period 1 January 30 June 2021. Importer is the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. A bill to supplement the Road Traffic Act. The people's representative Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs are importing. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences. The representatives of the National Assembly are Nikolina Angelkova and Desislava Atanasova. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2021. 20 December 2021 Importer is the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Report on the activities of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. Import is the Court of Auditors. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Environment and Water. Importer is the national representative Georgi Svilenski. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Transport and Communications. Importer is the national representative Georgi Svilenski. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Health. Importer is the national representative Georgi Svilenski. Draft decision on the election of the Defence Committee. Importer is the national representative Georgi Svilenski. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov and Vasil Stefanov. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov and Vasil Stefanov. Draft decision on the election of the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov and Vasil Stefanov. Draft decision on the election of the Commission on Electronic Governance and Information Technologies. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov and Vasil Stefanov. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov and Vasil Stefanov. Draft decision on the election of the Energy Commission. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov and Vasil Stefanov. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Tourism. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov, Miroslav Ivanov and Vasil Stefanov. Draft amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The people's representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs are importing. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov and Rena Stefanova. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov and Rena Stefanova. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The representatives of the National Assembly are Andrey Gurov and Rena Stefanova. Draft decision to introduce a compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers on the electricity market. The representatives of the National Assembly Delyan Dobrev, Zhecho Stankov and Temenuzhka Petkova are importing. The drafts and drafts of decisions are published on the website of the National Assembly and those to be distributed will be allocated to the competent permanent committees after their establishment. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I allow myself to address you in the manner of conduct, so that you do not pass unnoticed what sounded in the declaration of rebirth. At the end of this declaration there was a direct call for violence, invasion of the National Assembly, pressure on the MPs. I believe that this is unacceptable, and from now on, I hope, firstly, that the MPs, from whichever formation they are, will refrain from such a language here in and outside the National Assembly, because they are elected to carry out legislative activity, to defend positions, but not to call for violence. And when this happens, you, or one of the Vice-Presidents, are currently holding the sitting, do not allow such an attitude and similar language here in the Chamber. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Point 1 of the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES ON MACHINE MAINTENANCE IN THE SELECTIONS OF 14 NOVEMBER 2021 A draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission has been deposited. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u18	Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances concerning the engine vote in the elections on 14 November 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all the facts and circumstances concerning the engine vote held in the parliamentary and presidential elections on 14 November 2021 concerning: 1. Is there an independent assessment carried out by experts on the work of voting machines on the coverage of the vote, the issuance of vote receipts and the recording of the results? 2. Are there any discrepancies in the results of the recording shown in the voting machines and receipts in the voting polls, with the committee checking two randomly selected multi-mandated areas and the voting protocols there. 3. To request information from the Central Election Commission on alerts for infringements, discrepancies and opinions on the validity of the voting results, invitations to the vote, checking the sections where the results of the voting ballot machines do not correspond. 4. To find out what damage, problems and refusals of voting machines were on the vote, were there cases of voters who voted wrong and wanted to vote again and the wrong vote to be declared invalid? 5. An expertise shall be appointed by experts to check the machines used in the elections and the voting software. 2. In its work, the Temporary Commission may attract specialists, require data from municipalities, sectionals, regional electoral committees, as well as from the Central Election Commission, to require an explanation from members of electoral committees and other officials. 3. The Commission shall complete its work with a report within three months of its establishment. 4. The Commission shall consist of three representatives from each parliamentary group and shall be headed by a Chair and two Vice-Presidents. 5. elects the Chair of the Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances concerning the machine voting in the parliamentary and presidential elections on 14 November 2021. 6. It shall elect Vice-Presidents of the Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances concerning the engine vote held in the parliamentary and presidential elections on 14 November 2021. 7. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u19	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. The draft decision may lack a point for the election of Commissioners, and there are only for President and Vice-Presidents. Someone make an offer in the course of the discussion. I'm opening the debate on the draft decision. Here you go, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In order for us to have a full debate on the proposed draft decision, as I have asked the President, we must actually have the draft decision before us, because, as we have heard from our colleague's statement, the scope of this committee is too great. What I can comment on right away are the serious problems that may arise with similar applications of such ideas. To check the election results in two multi-manded constituencies, as I have heard in your proposal, is a very, very serious task. That's hundreds of thousands of sections that should be almost checked... [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, hundreds of sections that need to be rechecked. There needs to be a very precise methodology, what the committee has established really must be within the meaning of good electoral practices. So please very much let's see the whole proposal, which contained other ideas for checking results, verifying results, re-counting. I would like to stress that at the moment it is only the Bulgarian court that can order the opening of electoral papers and counting again. Because if it is done in an incorrect way or data which could ultimately lead to doubt in the election result would undermine the confidence in the electoral process very strongly, which is already not high in Bulgarian society. So very much please, before we go to the heart of the debate, let us get the project and then the debate will be held on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. After verification it was found that the project was available on the website of the National Assembly. It was deposited on 14 December and is available there. Here's a line for you, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Tsoneva! Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for explaining half of my line that the project was uploaded on time and there is an opportunity for each of the MPs to get acquainted. But my more significant line is that yes, it really isn't hundreds of thousands, it's hundreds of sections that we could check. Of course, the Commission will shrink the volume of data it needs to check to a reasonable volume, but this is an extremely important committee, because both the power of the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers derive from the election results. There should be no doubt in the proper conduct of the elections and in the results that have been reported in this exotic machine way. From this point of view, we believe that the Commission is extremely important, extremely imperative and even an honour issue for the National Assembly to accept and look right into the eyes all the results that this committee will find in an undeniably diligent and mathematically accurate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u23	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Any other lines to Mrs. Tsoneva? Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u24	Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, Mrs. Tsoneva! I would like to object that the Commission is not intended to verify the election results or to revise them and to open election papers. It should do a check on what is already known in the society. Differences in the minutes of the sectional election committees. I suppose each of us has seen similar differences between the results that are indicated in the protocols and what was in the receipts from the machine vote. This is what creates a mistrust in the Bulgarian society regarding the vote and the machine vote. And it is these doubts that we need to distract them through this committee. The Commission must check the voting process and the credibility of this vote. This will not change the election results, nor will it lead to any change in them. So I ask that this committee be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Tsoneva, you may have neglected to tell the honourable Members of ARCHER who submitted the Draft for the establishment of this committee that this issue will be considered in practice in the National Assembly because after each election the Central Election Commission comes out with a report. He usually joins the Legal Commission, now the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, where this report will be reviewed, all these questions, questions and problems will be raised if there were any in the sectional election committees. So this issue will be dealt with and there is no need to set up a temporary temporary committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u27	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A hole, Mrs. Tsoneva? There's no desire. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! It seems to me that we must necessarily support the decision that our fellow Members are proposing and set up a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances surrounding the engine vote, because, colleagues, we do not need to put a lot of emotions back into it. The machine vote has caused serious stress and tension in society. The facts of non-compliance have been presented to me so kindly, and it seems to me that the National Assembly as a high authority in this country cannot fail to take this view. It was generally stated in subtext: let us not dig, so that we do not further destroy trust in the electoral system. It seems to me that we have to dig to the ground here because trust in the electoral system has already been violated and perhaps there is no more important task for the people's representation than to restore confidence in the electoral system. If it has not happened, it should also be established and said, not by experts, not by engineers or by IT specialists, but by the national representation. You know, we were worried that during the election the Central Election Commission, which does not have the necessary capacity, had chosen machine certification experts to verify and I don't know what else we didn't know or we met them a little later. We then appealed to the experts of the IT specialists, who will be engaged by the Central Election Commission, to be engaged on the same quota principle as the electoral committee itself. In other words, any political power represented in parliament to have the opportunity to broadcast its specialists was not done. I think now, during the Temporary Commission, it can be done. Look, colleagues, in a nutshell: let's trust each other. In the election process, if we don't have confidence, there's no way things are going to work out in the country. And if we do what we need to do, if we set up this temporary committee, if it does its job, I think it would be a very serious step to restore trust between the political forces in parliament and restore the confidence of the citizens themselves in the electoral process. I think we owe them this thing. And I say again, let's not worry about digging. We have to dig up the whole truth about the machines and what happened in the November 14th and 21st elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u29	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. A line from Antoinette Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Cholakov! No, no one wants to sweep anything, and I don't know how you understand digging, because I know you don't like scratching. But what with this committee someone is going to do is actually put a smoke screen over what the elephant in the room is. If there are problems with the organisation of the electoral process, including with regard to machine voting, a large part of them are caused by the way the electoral administration is constructed on a party-political policy principle. The Central Election Commission is heavily burdened by political dependencies. I can list infinitely long decisions made by this...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u31	Get to the point, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u32	... A central electoral committee in which they were thus influenced. What needs to be done is not to count the election result, honourable Members of AGE, in two electoral areas, which cannot in any way be a solution to this problem, but we need to start a serious major conversation about reforming the electoral administration and ensuring its independence and exemption from the 30-year party quota principle, which deprives it of objectivity, professionalism and creating confidence in the implementation of the election law. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u33	Thank you. Another line to Mr. Cholakov? There's no line. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u34	Now, Mrs. Tsoneva, I would like to remind you that in the amendments to the Election Code, which were adopted by the then majority in the Forty-fifth People's Assembly of Good Friday, the parties of change or the parties of the protest, you made the Code, you introduced the strong engine vote. By the way, colleagues, did you know the difference was two votes? No, no, two votes. With two votes, the engine vote was accepted, and I will not forget the board on top of Good Friday was. You have created the Central Election Commission as it is now, you have appointed your members. What do you really want? What do you want from us? You have created these rules that have destroyed trust in the electoral process. We've got less than 30% voters. Sorry, it's a scandal, it's a shame! It can't stay that way, colleagues, and it won't deal with any more of the same. Do not think that with more of the same we will restore confidence in the electoral process. That's not gonna happen! We'll go back, find out what happened, check everything around the machine vote, because we just have to restore trust in the political system, you know? This is not about any machines, this is about whether there will be a parliament and whether there will be parliamentaryism, or whether we are going to another form of government. And if you think I'm talking like this because I'm talking, remember what I'm saying, and one day we'll talk again. The machines were the first step. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u35	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ganev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a machine. [[shows the laptop he's carrying in his hand]] If anyone has any doubts about this, raise your hand. There's a text written on this machine that wasn't given to us on paper. I have to trust the machine that there is no mistake. I trust you. I don't think there's any mistake or that someone's trying to lie to me or fool me by reading this text from a machine. Okay. The machine says the following: is there a gap between point 2 of..., in fact it is somehow not clear, point 1 and inside point 1 there are five other points, which is a point, which is a point?! But point two of point one of the proposed solution, which, I repeat, we don't have on paper, we have to rely on the machine to find out what we're being asked for. Are there any discrepancies in the results of the recording shown in the voting machines and receipts in the voting polls, with the Commission checking two randomly selected multi-mandated areas and the voting protocols there. The electoral regions in Bulgaria are 31, there are 32 abroad, but let's say in this decision it does not concern abroad, there remain 31 in the country. How do we know that random selection of two districts even with lots ensures representativeness of these two areas for the entire population of all sections in Bulgaria by machine voting? Because it has to be representative, otherwise there will be a distortion in the results. This sample must be representative in terms of precisely making differences. So we need to know all the differences in the country, find out what constitutes a representative sample, there's no telling how many in 31 regions. Maybe the statistics are not mathematics, it's statistics another science to tell us that the smallest sample in 31 regions is five regions. How do we know two is enough to represent the sample, first? Secondly, then the title of the decision must be: to verify certain facts and circumstances, because it is clearly not a question of verifying all the facts and circumstances, because all the facts and circumstances cover all 31 areas, with all the sections with machine voting in them. Which is why I believe that at this point we have no guarantee that the way to conclude whether there are serious problems with machine voting or not will give us the right answer because its methodology is unsupported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. The line is Stoyle Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I agree with you. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that on your machine you can open the CEC website today and check all the election protocols to actually see if there is a match, or if there is no match. I've already done it for my election district. I've opened several protocols, I've looked at the counting of the receipts, it's part of the protocols, and I didn't see any difference. So why do we need a temporary committee for this? [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u39	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Another line to Mr. Ganev? Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u40	Dear Mr. Ganev, it's hard to understand what you're saying. You obviously don't know the difference between different types of machines. In your opinion, a coffee machine, a computer and a voting machine are the same thing and work on the same principle. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] What I'm about to tell you is that this temporary committee needs to establish these differences that have already been established. And unlike the previous one, who apparently benefits from the election results, I will say that I have personally seen protocols where there are differences. The whole Bulgarian society has seen them, except apparently the government. It is obvious that there is also a problem with machine voting and the National Assembly as the highest authority must verify the credibility of these votes with the machine vote. This does not mean revising the results or anything else. The two multi-mandated areas, which the Commission will decide to check, are sufficient to conclude on how to operate and how to vote on machines. This is the purpose of the committee, not to verify and revise the entire election results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Third line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u42	My coat will be all about what Mrs. Guncheva said. No, Mrs. Guncheva, randomly selected two regions from 31 do not guarantee representation against all 31 regions. They must not be randomly selected, they must be selected so that they are representative of all 31 regions. So the phrase itself, which is randomly chosen, means that we will not get an exact answer to the question about all 31 areas: what are the problems - whether they are large, whether they are serious and how serious if they are serious? Random selection guarantees us the wrong answer. It shouldn't be random, it should be representative. And there may be not to go into detail, these are parts of science, this is my deformation from the housekeeperate, the doctor has the same from his research that in order to represent the sample, there must be three, four, five areas. We can't know that from before. That's what I'm saying. That is to say, what you are proposing is two randomly selected areas that guarantee us the wrong answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev now for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u44	Mr President, I sincerely believe that all parties, especially those in Parliament, must be consistent and predictable in their policies and in their messages. Because for 32 years, we've been watching parties entering parliament and forgetting everything they promised yesterday, they've made commitments, they've signed off on fulfilling, and for the sake of getting into executive power, they're forgetting everything. At the moment we are listening and we are watching just this because we have a political formation where one of the main points for their creation is the fight against GERB and what GERB do for 12 years. The charges, including at the beginning of this year and in the past years, for manipulating the elections in any form and challenging any checks, are currently being forgotten, on the contrary, it is explained in a long and broad way that control should not exist. We have to assume that all these machines worked perfectly. I agree that it may be perfect, but it may not be. And we are offering specific solutions, not to make a revision of the CEC, but to establish, quote, what is mentioned inside point one: is there an independent assessment carried out by experts for the operation of the machines? In point two, is there any difference in the results of the recording of the machines shown? Let's see the polls. It's not a problem if it's two, three or five, give six, but it doesn't cancel the fact that we're setting up the committee in question. These are details that you can now suggest that there are not two. And most importantly, at point five, we say: "Let an expert report be appointed by expert experts to check the machines used for the elections as well as the software. "Now, when were you accurate and objective, explaining to your constituents that you want control, that you want to verify that you want to establish before any election how these machines work, what the software is, to come experts, to check them out and to say: yes, we guarantee this thing. Then or now that you're struggling to keep this from happening?! And I'm gonna go back to what I started with, and we have to be consistent. We from the first day are consistent and predictable. What we promised, we're fighting for it right now. There's no way anyone can say they're not consistent. You can argue about everything we're fighting for and deny it, but we're clear and consistent. We're looking at the exact opposite right now. Another colleague from the left sector has spoken: the CEC will come and give its report. " - But we do not trust the CEC! We did not trust the CEC before, because then in the CEC was the majority of GERB and DPS, and now there is another majority, which we also do not trust, because there are hundreds of facts exported that these data, which has as discrepancies, are a fact. And that's exactly what we want us to be able to see them, to challenge professional expertise on machines and software. Nothing else! There's no political game here, there's no political dividends here. We want to prove that the elections are now more honest than when GERB and DPS held them. And the so-called right is against it. Let's tell each other the truths as they are, not hide behind hollow phrases and display machines. Well, really get one coffee maker to see if it's credible, not to justify it being two areas. Make it five, all right, we're in. In three months, we'll find out everything. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ganev, there were problems in this election, but that wasn't the problem with the machines. According to the assessment of international observers and various independent Bulgarian observers, these were some of the most honest elections in the country, along with the July elections. However, the problem for certain parties was the lack of enough for them bought and controlled vote. This was the problem that the measures that were taken largely crossed the possibility of a bought and controlled vote! [[Shouting from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] However, we have seen another problem in these elections, and this is not just the mass vote in our neighbouring country, but the participation of government representatives of this country, of course, I am talking about Turkey, in the conduct of the Bulgarian elections. That was a problem! We have seen members of the sectional committees vote instead of voters - Bulgarian citizens. This was a problem, and it would have deserved parliamentary research and research, not the machine problem, because there was none. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Yes, I agree that we see a sequence in the actions of AGE and this is to support GERB, because we all know that this decision is in favour of GERB, in favour of having an unfair census of votes. As we saw the other day, they supported and there was no quorum in the Chamber. So we see that you are very consistent in your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u49	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u50	I'm very happy to have the opportunity to do the backdrop of a scientist in the field of legal science. I just want to mention that we not only don't trust what's happening right now... By the way, the agreement is that you are really right that Mr. Rashkov was the reason to hit the bought vote and to drop the number of MPs at the moment of GERB and the DPS. This is the only good thing about these elections that were, and it is an indisputable fact that this thing happened thanks to the actions of the Ministry of Interior in terms of the vote bought. But from now on, we are not commenting on this, we are commenting on the whole process with the machines, the software that is inside, and the differences that there are when counting the cuttings, along with what comes out as a result of the machines. It's really shocking that the so-called maid of fury has no such committee to carry out an inspection. Excuse me very much, you are also struggling to vote in the mail? Even more absurd thing for which I am simply not going to go into details right now because there will be colossal manipulations there. As for the suggestions that have been made, whether we have something and defend, excuse me a lot! It is a shame and a disgrace to come out of this tribune to say some things that are, to put it mildly, untruths, but are frank cynicism, provided that you do not allow yourself to say anything about GERB or DPS and keep them with absolutely everything, but blame me or in particular AGE. It's nice, before a person speaks, to consider whether there's any reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u51	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u52	Thank you. Just a second, Mr. Anastasov. Colleagues, I call on you without mentioning any specific parties, please everyone. The Temporary Commission may also argue without mentioning one or another parliamentary group. Please come in as per procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, I would urge the gentleman most not to allow suggestion from the stand. There are two prestigious organizations who are involved in monitoring the elections, Mr. Slavov should know them as an expert lawyer. I'm not a lawyer, Mr. Slavov, but the OSCE doesn't have a report yet. If you have any other way, please share it with the Chamber, because it will appear that you are misleading us, not to use stronger words that are a fact. And PACE in his brief statement mentions that there are problems with the machines. Please meet him! This is the PACE Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation, in particular the Bureau for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. Everything else is free interpretations in order to justify one or another behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u54	Thank you. Krum Zarkov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I allow myself to take the floor to bring back the debate where it was placed by the importers. Is there a need for the National Assembly to deal with facts and circumstances regarding the engine vote in the last elections? Yes, there is such a need, as there is a need for the National Assembly to get acquainted with every choice. However, is there a need for a Temporary Commission to do so? No, on the contrary, it will only delay the process. Why? Because not only should the CEC provide the relevant report to be allocated to the Legal Commission, and the faster we create it, the faster it will work and deal with this issue, but the CEC itself must answer questions that we have the right to ask. The importers of this decision will undoubtedly be active in the Legal Commission, where they can put any questions that they are interested in. I also took the floor to add that the engine vote was introduced to solve two huge problems of the Bulgarian electoral process. One is the number of actual newsletters that has never been achieved in another country, as in ours, and where entire parties have most likely been deprived of presence here from the point of view of this issue. The other is the confused, crossed-out protocols, which were constantly published after the election process of the site and which gave the impression that something was set up in the sectional election committees. These two reasons have made it so that the engine vote was introduced into our legislation in the distant 2014 year. Each time it was cancelled with similar arguments as those we are hearing today. There is no party, except for a rebirth that wasn't here at the time, which hasn't defended the engine vote in the last few years. There is none, including the Political Party GERB, which has introduced it several times, voted, supported, repealed with the argument that it should be better, not that it should not be there. All this time we knew there was also a problem with engine voting, as with any innovation in the electoral process. It can create concern for citizens like any innovation, like any modernization, as was the fact when they moved from color ballots in the early 1990s to the integral newsletter. That's why the campaign had to be done. Every political force had a responsibility to behave properly and to explain to the citizens that this was not a scary thing. What did we see in the last election, though? Targeted, very powerful campaign against machine voting by some political forces, who daily, including during the campaign period, spoke often blatantly to create a feeling that something was wrong. One of the reasons for the low turnout was perhaps not the main one. There was constant doubt in these machines. There was always talk about all sorts of things and let's discuss them today! Let the National Assembly put an end to this dispute in the Legal Committee, where it belongs, where you will see that there has been no problem with machines at all................. less problems than with the ballots! The whole hysteria you created was pretty much pointless. But that's basically it, Mr. Chairman. As for the item on the agenda, I assure you, my fellow importers, that this initiative will slow the process rather than speed it up. Three months for such a committee is not necessary. Even today, the Legal Commission can gather, warn the CEC that we are waiting for them next week and start working on the substance. I assure you that my colleagues and I from the BSP will not oppose this, we will help on this issue because we are convinced that this method of voting solves two major problems of the Bulgarian electoral process. Many people to whom their voice would otherwise be reported as invalid or recorded to another party can today be confident that the button they have pressed has sent here the MP they wanted. Thank you. [[Private applause from the House.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, in the speech I heard the word questions. In a coalition agreement signed between several parties, I read the word........................................................................................... At the moment, listening to the debates, I wonder how we, as MPs, will restore the confidence of the citizens, which you talked about being violated and this was one of the reasons why the lowest turnout was achieved. If we do not examine only facts and circumstances, it has been said several times that no one will revise the results of the elections, it will not change the Election Code, but a test of the machine voting in respect of which was also a media campaign, and we all very well know that such an examination would restore the trust of those who have chosen us. Secondly, let us not forget that from now on we will rely precisely on the engine vote in all subsequent elections. That is why it is important to do an impartial examination of the identified facts and circumstances that raise doubt not only in us but also in the rest of society. Finally, if Mr. President allows me to add one proposal for members of this committee to be composed of 14 Members of Parliamentary Principle, namely two Members of Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u58	Mr. Petrov, of course. 4 of the main points is that the Commission consists of three representatives. That is, you are now proposing that the replacement be replaced by two by each parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u59	Mr. Chairman, my proposal for two representatives from a parliamentary group is related only to Mr. Zarkov's statement that it will take a long time that this parliamentary committee will act for three months and so on. I wouldn't want to waste the people's valuable time. With a view to reaching a solution to its creation, we are inclined to agree to both representatives of a parliamentary group, I repeat, on a parietal principle, so that there are no dissatisfied MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u60	Okay. We are recording a proposal from the National Representative Petar Petrov for amendment to this point. 4 The Commission shall be composed of two representatives from each parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u61	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u62	Here's a line for you, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Honorable Mr. Zarkov, allow me, as a reply to you and a form of disagreement, to express two further arguments that are in favour of setting up precisely the Temporary Commission. The first is that the whole problem with machine voting is not only legal. In other words, it goes quite sensitively beyond the competence of a Legal Committee. There are also psychological moments here, and a number of others, and technological ones, of course, that are not irrelevant. Many of the concerns expressed during the campaign were expressed precisely in terms of technology. It was also worth considering the fact why so few countries in Europe have gone entirely to a machine-voting process that I do not know whether the Legal Commission can answer with legal arguments. My second disagreement, if you allow me, I believe that a Temporary Commission will also create a temporary relief, of course temporarily, of the complexity that the complex ruling coalition is experiencing with all the appetites for committee chairing, vice-presidential. I mean, in your interest, it would be another committee that could support your otherwise fragile balance. Thank you. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u64	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Third line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, you actually missed a few things to mention. One of them is that, in fact, 2017, when the first machine voting was to take place, there was a Law, GERB in the CEC managed to sabotage it and it was not held, and they won the elections. They're virtuosos at the paper vote. We all know that. I am surprised that the breeding took hold of this hook, which was submitted by GERB and the other colleagues from here. Because if there was a paper vote, you wouldn't be in parliament right now. Just because there is a machine, you can be represented in this National Assembly. In fact, the engine vote drastically reduced GERB's result from April to July by 195 thousand votes, from July to November by another 50 thousand votes. The problem is not the engine vote. The problem is Boyko Rashkov, who is aging, says he supports. He reduced it by pressing buys, corporate, dependent vote. He certainly didn't handle the whole thing, but I see a little duplicity here. Mr. Zarkov, you just missed mentioning these things. I will just tell you that the invalid votes, when there was a paper vote, were 87 thousand and 2017 and April this year. Now that there's a machine vote, only 9,000 votes, and that's because we allow smaller sections to vote paper. So we have a much greater representation and not the votes of many Bulgarian citizens to be declared invalid and thus to deprive entire formations of presence in the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u66	Mr. Zarkov, the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear replicators, thank you for your lines. Mr. Petrov, there was practically no disagreement between what you said and what I said. Now the question, of course, is not just a technical question for earning time for either two or three MPs. Practice shows that such a temporary committee set up at this time will not contribute added value to what the Legal Commission will do and should do. I hope that there will be 23 members of this committee to keep this issue on the agenda. I want you to understand me correctly. Each of the questions you ask is legitimate and must be answered. The question is, how do you do it? By setting aside a committee to sit with the same people at the same time, this will not help the process. That's my point. From there to Mr. Dilov. This debate, with all its complexity, of course, is not only legal. He's been here a very long time, too long, I'd say. He was under a variety of cancers all the time. The truth is that many countries in Europe have introduced and abolished this form of vote. But no country in Europe has allowed itself for so many years before people's eyes to distort the electoral process! No country in Europe has had the problem with the invalid ballots that we have had. No country in Europe has had such reports that we have observed weekly! [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] With your colleagues, Dear Mr. Dilov, we have had this debate at several national meetings and he has not been on the side of GERB against the machines, at least I have not heard it so once. It has always been in the way of their introduction and we have agreed that any method of voting does not have a perfect one, there are pros and cons, but at the moment we find ourselves, machines provide more guarantee than paper vote. The big mistake that has been made at some point is to be mixed, which has created additional problems that we have discussed, colleagues, in a report that we will soon be able to see. That is, the whole complexity of this process is familiar to the House and the truth is, if we have to be completely honest, that depending on what results a party expects, supports this thing to happen so that more people can take advantage of it, or what you did in the last elections, constantly brings doubt. Your right! After all, that didn't help you that much, I think. And finally for Mr. Ananiev. Dear Mr. Ananiev, the truth is that the engine vote cancels some defects in the electoral process, but what happens outside the buying sections, the corporate, the pressure of certain feudal practical domains, the electorate who trade their party lists, which gives the most, this problem, although it has been softened, has not disappeared. We have to work on it and it is not from the competence of the CEC, but of other bodies, so this is also coming to our attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u68	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Speaking atanas Atanasov, then Thomas Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not surprised by the debate that is taking place at the moment, but I would like to draw your attention to an extremely important angle, which I am surprised, however, that no one has mentioned so far. There is a division of authorities in Bulgaria under the Constitution. The National Assembly is the supreme authority of the government, which is entitled to legislative initiative, adoption of laws and parliamentary control. But there are courts in Bulgaria. It is the judicial authority that has powers in relation to the electoral process. I didn't hear anyone file a lawsuit to challenge election results. There are procedures and let's follow them. Yes, it is not bad to have a debate about which system is better, fairer or will lead to more accurate reading of the results. But when someone feels that there are violations that lead to a change in election results, let's be so good and go to court if they haven't missed the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u70	Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u71	They don't have time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u72	Yeah, your time is up. We're going to increase it by one third, which is acceptable. Here you go. You've got three minutes in the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u73	Dear Mr. Atanasov, you must not have understood after reading what the proposal is about. No one has any intention of reviewing your results. We are calm, because, unlike some parties, or some embassies have paid us or received grants, so there are no problems in this regard. Only election results are challenged in the court, the work of voting machines is not checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To call a political regime democracy, it must meet some basic conditions. The first basic condition, the most important, the most fundamental, is to have fair elections. In order to declare some elections fair, there is a key condition and it is the losers, the opposition to the government, to recognise them and to accept them as honest. This is an alphabetical rule when assessing when rating the level of democracy is made and so on, political science approaches this way are the election results recognized by everyone. We have the following situation at the moment. We have one president and one majority in the previous parliaments, which creates highly controversial electoral legislation, which is unprecedented in European practice where there is no such type of purely machine voting. This majority is going to elections. These elections end with a certain result all three opposition parties in parliament, which are extremely different, with severe contradictions among themselves, do not recognise this result as fair and responsible for the real moods of citizens. This is the situation that has never happened in Bulgaria since 1990. You put us back there. You just put us back there, you're destroying Bulgarian democracy. It is of no value to your opinion of the rulers who have created these laws, who have benefited from them, whether they work or not. There is a value to the opposition's opinion different, dissatisfied, but important, to hear its voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u76	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Peter Petrov had also raised his hand. Excuse me, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I have heard your opinion that whoever is dissatisfied with the elections wants to challenge them to address the relevant court. You have already been told by colleague Guncheva that this committee does not aim to challenge the elections. I know that your party turned to the court when the RIK "Stara Zagora" tried to remove you from the electoral process there. But since you said you didn't hear anyone challenge the elections, I would like to inform you and tell you that yes, a party of old has fulfilled the respective constitutional powers and has challenged the elections in the respective legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u78	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we have news today "GERB" announced that they do not recognise the election results. This is a very important political circumstance, so we are in a new situation. It's just that I... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, yes, I repeat. I have never heard and Boyko Borisov has not said such a thing because it is important to you what he says. But let me ask the important question. I repeat, there is a division of authorities and it is within the powers of the judiciary to rule on the legality of elections. Also, if we go into details of the procedures, I would like to tell you that it is only the courts that are entitled to order the opening of election papers. Whatever committee we set up, we may have a situation where we claim the power of another power, and I say again, we say that the division of authorities must be respected?! Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u80	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Speaking.. Toma Bikov. [[Replications between MPs from GERB-SDS and "Democratic Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u82	Colleagues, please order in the hall, Mr. Bikov speaking!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u83	It has been heard here that we have made suggestions that raise doubts about the electoral process. We didn't make any suggestions. We doubt the election process, we doubt the engine vote, and it's no secret. And we doubt because of all the questions we asked during the election campaign, we have not received any adequate answers. We haven't gotten one yet. This is also why we support the establishment of such a temporary committee, which, unlike the Legal Committee, could spend more time dealing with the electoral process. Moreover, if such a temporary committee is set up, we are also prepared to propose amendments to the Election Code, and we will do so. Why? Because beyond the doubts, which I repeat, were raised not by our questions, but by the lack of answers, this caused the great doubt. If we had received an adequate answer to the question: what are 200 machines looking for in one place, 300 to another, where do all kinds of machines come from, given that two months earlier it was claimed that there were not enough machines, we probably wouldn't be able to instill that doubt, as you claim. But such a temporary committee will have plenty of time to deal with and answer these questions. Not to appeal the elections, not to declare the elections illegal, but it can answer these questions, and if we consider that there is no answer to any question anywhere, we should also propose the relevant legislative solution to answer that question. However, something else was also very important in some fellow Members' speeches. Here it was acknowledged that this electoral code, which was adopted overnight on Great Thursday in April, or May, aimed to reduce the votes of GERB. For me, this is not an argument for changing the Election Code of any Party to reduce votes. The electoral code is not intended to reduce the votes of one party and increase the votes of another. The electoral code aims to create conditions for the fair conduct of elections in which people can trust. Do our voters trust in the electoral process? No, they don't trust us like we don't trust them. I'm sorry! And that's because you, even today, are going out on the stand and saying: "We have reduced the votes of GERB!" Well, let me ask you: Was your voices that collapsed, colleagues from the BSP bought the votes that didn't go out to vote for you, or were they the voices of people who were just worried about going to the machines? I'm pretty sure these aren't the votes bought. And there's no one here to tell me how many there are right now, because here you're talking about the null and void ballots. Yeah, but we knew how much the invalid ballots were, and today we don't know how many people there are who didn't go to vote. And we'll never know, because if you claim that people have gone with enthusiasm to vote, but we've turned them down, that means we've turned down your people, too, which can't be true. In Bulgaria, many people remained unpresented, although they were willing to vote. And these aren't bought votes, don't insult them. These people are neither bought nor manipulated. They were just worried about going to the machine. Yes, there are such people in Bulgaria, and they are part of the democratic process, and they should have their representation in parliament if you want it to be representative for the entire Bulgarian nation. That is why this Parliament is currently not representative and you will feel it very soon, because when a parliament has not gathered in itself all the trends, all the people, regardless of their education, regardless of their views: ideological, political, it becomes unpresentable. And that's what you feel on the street, not in parliament. Here you can be very comfortable and calm, and you can think that everything you have tammed is four parties you have made a coalition, you have entered the government, but very soon you will see that there are some people out there who have not been able to vote and will refuse to be responsible for the work of this Parliament because they have not participated in its formation and in its election. That is why we will support the committee, but I repeat, the more important thing is to fix this batak, which you have combined involved on Great Thursday and which has the potential to completely destroy confidence in the electoral process. And without trust, the elections don't make sense, and there's no point in standing here if no one believes that we're being broadcast on an honest and democratic path. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u84	Thank you. Ivaylo Mirchev for a line. Then Victoria Vassileva for a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u85	Mr. Bikov, a very impressive speech about trust in the electoral process, however, we all remember some MPs from GERB who were walking with some bags of ballots in the CEC. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You remember that, don't you?! And to tell you now why you so want to return paper ballots: because you can't win! You're analog. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Both you and the DPS want to return the paper so you can have any chance of getting more votes. When I say analog, it's not an insult, it's a status. If you remember the electronic signature and your man in the CEC, the representative of GERB organized the vote so that the representatives of the Democratic Bulgaria in the country, as they submitted their documents with an electronic signature, could be removed. If you remember because you're talking to me about trust in the election process again, Boyko Borisov said that three or four people from Do you remember that?! Well, what if it was?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Right? I guess it was different, huh? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Each party had machines that could test. The only problem with machines is that it is extremely important, but therefore it is not necessary to create an explicit committee, is that we do not have the source code of the software. But we didn't have him, Mr. Bikov, and in your time. If you remember, then we wrote letters from "Democratic Bulgaria," we wanted to check the code itself...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................! We have the software specialists, we wanted to do it, but it wasn't provided. He, unfortunately, is not currently available to be checked. This is the only component of the engine vote that can in any way be audited. This could happen in the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u86	Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bikov, you say you have doubts about the engine vote. I take it that you are doubting the professionalism and activity of the company Ciela Norma, which, thanks to the majority of GERB in the Central Election Commission, was elected to make the engine vote in Bulgaria. Again, your majority in the CEC had made such contracts with Ciela Norma that we allowed a private company to blackmail the state in the literal sense. Am I to understand that you doubt the company that you have appointed to make the engine vote in Bulgaria?! [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] If you think there's a normal thinker who can talk about how trust in the electoral system has collapsed since April, just show me this guy. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Trust in the electoral system is collapsing with every passing year, and you colleagues from GERB also have quite a significant contribution to this whole story. Do you think that all the issues with the paper votes and those outrageous writings on protocols and ballots were in favor of a higher trust in the electoral system?! Do I remind you that during the referendum? 2016, I personally carried in the Supreme Administrative Court protocols, in which strangely, the voters on the list in Sofia-district dropped sharply by about a hundred thousand. Just crossed out! Is that what builds confidence in the electoral system?! Perhaps the machines have their shortcomings, undoubtedly, but let's do now, apart from the Legal Committee, we will also have the Commission on Electronic Governance. Let the Committee on Electronic Governance examine in detail whether it will be the work of
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u88	Thank you. Georgi Gkozdeykov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bikov, you are probably right that there are people who have been frightened by the machines, but you have missed a very important fact about people who have not gone out to vote, who are disgusted by the political system, who have been disgusted by what you have done in recent years. This is a very important fact that Bulgarians should remember. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u90	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mirchev, you said we were against the machines because we can't win. We can win, you can't, or you can't win for decades now either with machines or with newsletters. The problem is neither the machines nor the ballots. Are we analog people? Yeah, we're analog people. Yes, there are analog people in this country. And yes, some of our representation represents these analog people who are Bulgarian citizens who have just as much rights as digital people. Sorry, it's democracy! In democracy, everyone has equal voting rights. Calling analogs and digital people is not democratic at all! We therefore defend the interests of the analogue people in Bulgaria! Face it! And we are proud of that because we protect the interest of all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their education, their ethnicity, religion and so on, and you protect the digital people. Mrs. Vassileva, I didn't mention any firm or anything. I'm saying we don't trust the Election Code! We don't trust the way it was done. You very well remember how to run over all the principles of normality that happened in the spring. The result of this is that we recorded two records of low turnout. And here for the disgust. Well, if they were disgusted by our government, those people who didn't vote would have voted for you! Why didn't they vote for you? Think about it! If only these people had voted for Radev as well. They had disgusted us, but didn't go to vote for you?! No, these people, a few of them, didn't go because they were worried they'd expose themselves to the neighbors. That's what they were worried about. If you have not seen these analog people, go out and see them, because not all people in Bulgaria are online and programmed. There are other people who deal with other things. Their political grounds are just as valid as yours. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. Revelations, Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. To speak, Hristo Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The last few times I tried to get a line, but it didn't work out for me, so I'm going over it. In the debate, I heard some very interesting things. If I have to start from where the previous statement ended, according to this logic, which was pointed out, then the majority of the "There is such a people" in the Central Election Commission organised the last two choices, with their second one particularly well, in the same logic. Because, to be honest, GERB never had its own majority in the CEC and this is complete nonsense. He never had a majority in the CEC! [[Replication by National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]] Ni-co-ga! But by this logic, which you have just pointed out, this is the majority of the people there are such people who are organizing the last elections. By the way, there were some very interesting things and confessions that did you see the machines and the interior minister influence the outcome of the election and benefit or minus any party?! This is a very interesting recognition of how a representative of the executive really participated in the electoral process outside the powers of the Council of Ministers, a very interesting recognition! You need to pay attention to this. And as for how they have influenced, by looking at the results of both the Bulgarian Democratic and the Bulgarian Government, there is such a people and the BSP, and GERB, only the DPS and "We continue the Change" are positive, i.e. the machines and the Interior Minister seem to have influenced not only GERB, but also the majority of this House, let alone that some parliamentary groups have remained below the line. I apologize to my colleagues from the ARGUING.. They were not in the past two parliaments, so there is no way to make an analogy with them. As for the very proposal that our colleagues offer, I read it from a computer, but my computer generated scanned paper from a PDF file, and it didn't generate my own program that would make me a different file system, there's a difference between machines and machines, between software and software, right? Speaking of which, it is very important that one part of the proposal The result is what it is, but we need to check whether everything has gone as it should, because sooner or later, next elections will come to Bulgaria and we need to be prepared for everything to go well, i.e. to identify and correct errors. That's not exactly what's going to happen in a CEC report at the Legal Commission. If you'll excuse me, the Legal Commission to deal with the primary code or to revise the software is a little bit, not to say a funny word, but for lawyers to check software, it's a little weird for me?! Besides, there is no way only a CEC report could do this job, because unlike previous elections, when the CEC was fully controlling the electoral process, it is now not the case. The machines themselves are audited by three institutions, the software is prepared by three institutions and the CEC is not one of them. These are the State Agency for Electronic Governance, the Bulgarian Institute for Standardization and the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. These are, by the way, the amendments from that Great Thursday Election Code to Good Friday. These are institutions that are not subordinate to the CEC, and there is no way for the CEC to reflect their work in its report, that is, they must come and take account of what they have done themselves. It is therefore good and proper to have a committee on which there are representatives from all parliamentary groups who understand this process. That's the right thing to do. Not to mention that it is really important to see how the audit process went, what representatives were there. There were doubts, let's disprove these doubts and documents. Did it turn out to be the other way around?! I don't know what the House is afraid of, or rather the majority of this House, of such a committee, because if everything is okay, you have no problem with this happening in even a month. You will solve the energy crisis with the Temporary Commission in one month, and let us also solve the problems of voting in one month. If you want, I even make an editorial proposal, the three-month period will be reduced to one month. I think we can do our job in a month. If you don't want to do the job, that's another matter. Because it doesn't turn out that there's a dog buried somewhere and you don't want it to be found. You're not scared, are you?! Vote for! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. You're making an offer. 7 The text to be amended to: The committee for questioning shall be elected for a period of one month. There are no lines. Any other speeches? Alexander Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The subject is extremely important. It's never too late or too early for this topic to be discussed here. Yes, the elections have passed, which is satisfied, which is not satisfied, but also, but we will definitely support the establishment of this committee. What will be its format, what will be the scope of its work, of course, is the work of the majority in this Chamber to determine it. I will start from there, as my colleagues have just expressed doubts about the election result, I also express similar ones. Even in my own capacity, I can tell, and I'm pretty sure that sooner or later, the moment will come when these machines will remain history. When? We'll see. It's, of course, just a guess, a hypothesis. Why didn't we appeal the election? Because GERB is a party that cares about its country. [[Laughter]] I don't know what's funny to you, but have you ever heard, just imagine what the effect would be if elections were cashed out in a democratic state, a member of the European Union, what would be the impact around the world? Do you realize this thing or not? Or are you now on the comb of positivism of this agreement that you managed to make, very happy and satisfied with yourself? That you played people for seven or eight months to match the score you needed? Now you're happy about that? Because that's exactly what you did. And really bear in mind, indeed, what would be the effect if a democratic state were to cash out its elections. That would be humiliation. Especially if you are a responsible citizen of this country, no one wants that to be a fact. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't be dealing with this issue. And yes, now is the time not before elections, not like you did. Not like you did what you actually accused the previous years of changing election rules just before, in fact, on the eve of the election. But that's exactly what you did in the rudest way. Or did you forget that too? That's very good. It's about the honesty of machines. Colleagues, how is it possible, excluding the hypothesis whether or not the honesty of the vote is protected by these machines, the secret of the vote, too, because I can give you examples of how the secret of the vote can be easily verified by the use of these machines, but I am not going to go into this topic. Colleagues, are you giving yourself another aspect of what happened these months? As of April, I will not now quote accurate data, but over 50% was voter turnout - 50% and something. In the next July elections, she went to 42%. In the last election, she went to 34%. And do you know why it's over 30%? Because actually the sum of the people who used paper in the smaller sections, and those people who voted on duty with machines, actually the percentage gets up from those people who voted with paper, not with a machine, and that can very easily be established by you looking, reading. Doesn't that give you any doubt that those who spoke earlier said that? Colleagues, this Parliament is perhaps not, but in fact the lowest representative that has ever been in the democratic history of Bulgaria. And it's a problem for you, it's not a problem for the opposition. We recognize the results anyway, even though we have our doubts. Can you tell me another very interesting fact? Let's remember the July elections, given that the machines you like so easily, everything wonderful, the results come out in hours, how then two days on the board of the Central Election Commission stuck at ninety-eight and something numbered protocols and one percent and a half two days could not be counted by these same machines? Doesn't that give you any doubt about what's going on, why is that? How is it that up to seven o'clock to ninety-eight percent and up to one hundred days or three days? It's ridiculous. Doesn't that also raise any doubts about you? Don't you want us as MPs to put these questions to the responsible institutions? It's not just the Central Election Commission, there are other authorities. But the most striking thing I heard today in some speeches was, in fact, perhaps the basis of what you did. You guys don't seem to understand the essence of being a party and gaining people's trust. You understand politics over the past few months how to aggravate a political party, how to bring it down, that's not because of something else, that's why you like Mr. Boyko Rashkov. No one has allowed such behavior and such harsh interference for all these years, at least I remember, in my conscious life. We didn't get a chance to do it? We haven't had a chance for our Home Minister, whoever he was, to go out from morning to night and say:..BSP buy votes, DPS, There is such a people!................................................................................... Did he do it? No! [[(Relations from DPS: only Boyko Borisov! And Nastimir Ananiev: Boyko led with e-mails!]] Nobody's allowed it to happen. That's what you did. Now you are satisfied, but the time will come when you will not be satisfied! That's right. That's why you are so very welcome right now, how you have brought down GERB. At least, if you think it, Mr. Ananiev, because you expressed that opinion, at least don't say it out loud. That's not the point of politics. The point of politics is to gain trust, not to destroy the other. This is the truth, and you will soon understand it! I'm done with the fact that if you really do have some sense, some morality is good to set up this committee. Colleagues at the age of one have gone to the trouble of offering it. Never, as I said in the beginning, need not discuss this subject. The next election will come, and we must go out in public and try to minimize the damage. Yeah, the machines might have their own positives. I agree with my colleague Zarkov a moment ago, yes, the invalid ballots. This largely resolves this issue, but does not solve many other issues. You are one of the parties, Mr. Zarkov, who has suffered the most since the introduction of these machines, and I think that even if you don't admit it on this stand, I know that you know it is, you are convinced of this thing. There's no way we can split people into analogs, people with high education status. You can't. This is our society, we have to comply with them, with the whole society, with its needs, with its capabilities. It is no accident that GERB proposed, in fact, the least it was, may be for some short period, but to continue the possibility for people to choose whether on paper or with a machine. It's not an accident. But insulting people and saying that all these... Now it turns out that 15% down turnout from April has been bought vote! But the vote bought, colleagues, is not in the polls section, and you know it very well, especially the people who... Come on, our colleagues from.. We continue the Change.. most of them have not been engaged in political activity until recently. However, we have made many of you, colleagues, elections for many years. And you know very well that if something is done with a controlled and bought vote, it is not in the polling section there is a way of voting. But the very fact that you don't even reflect that nowhere in Europe this is gone, and we're the smartest, this bit like with the coronavirus we're the smartest, we're always different, only people did it for a reason, and as I said in the beginning, the moment will come when we will question whether these machines should go to the warehouses at all, which will be sad. Thank you. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u96	The line of Atanas Atanasov, then Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nenkov, I call on the GERB group to take a clear position.. You acknowledge or do not recognise the elections because just now Mr. Petar Nikolov said that you do not recognise the elections and Mr. Nenkov now said the opposite? What's your position? In fact, it would be nice if you made a statement on this matter. But I also want something else important to pay attention to. No one in the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria divides people into analogs and any other. But apparently you in the management of GERB are analog people after you are against the engine vote. If you want to change the Election Code, you put in a bill, not deal with some fictional committee. And last but not least, I would like to point this out because it is an important circumstance that there is some synergy between you and a rebirth on this subject, as I see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u98	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I'm glad you admitted that you are experts in buying votes, and you know how it works. I'm glad it was declared by this tribune. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I am also very interested in how you can talk about trust, with confidence in the Forty-fourth National Assembly being 8%. You have turned the word "People's Representative" and "politician" into a dirty word after a full mandate of management of GERB and the Patriots. You can't talk about trust! We hope to restore citizens' confidence in policy making. As for analog people, yes, there are some analog people who do not prefer their money to be in bank accounts and with bags to be removed by analog route, and the expertise there is also very large. You have stated very clearly many times from the stands that Boyko Rashkov does not like him and he does his job. He is the Ministry of Interior Minister and his job is to stop the corporate and bought vote. This is his job, and that is why you don't like it. It can be seen what is being done, we hope tomorrow, by listening to it, to hear more about what happened in the elections. But think of it as a young politician and trust, and I return you to what you have addressed to me, in fact what is being done by you as a parliamentary group to return this trust, because today, listening to you from the stand, one is kind to me, and I say: "Malius, these people are what they are!Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u100	A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nenkov, first of all, I think some people should change their playlists and stop listening to Wosh MC. As for the possibility of restoring parliament's rating, it will not turn out that in time they will be lying on the inside of parliament because they are afraid to come out. But you had to start with data. Data that are official from the Central Election Commission, and that is about the difference in voting with machines and in voting with paper. In the July 14th elections, according to the CEC, the activity in machinery sections is 38%. In those with paper,. 55%. In contrast, in the last elections on 14 July, according to the Open Parliament, the activity in the paper sections is 51.85 percent, and notice, in the machine voting in the sections it is even 3% lower, already 35%. That is, there is obviously some problem somewhere, if even the activity is falling in the machine sections, so a more serious analysis really needs to be made on how to recover not so much as trust, but to restore transparency in the process itself, so that really does not repeat the mistakes of the past, but to see how to improve the process. And that doesn't work with a report on the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u102	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. The hole of Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the subject of trust is very sensitive. It has to be this way. Here's an example from today, you rejected the possibility of discussing today, in fact, the Business Compensation Project, given the high electricity prices. This, in your opinion, if we had accepted it, would we have had any positive here as MPs, no matter which political group adopted it. That would have been a good signal to the business. That's how you make trust. With such clichés for sacks... Hey, fellas, get down on the ground! You're in charge. How long do you think this 12-year-old thing, if you don't have anything to say, you're gonna talk about it? Enough already! Let's start taking responsibility and ruling. The issue of elections is extremely important and it must now be debated, not when it is convenient for you! Now! Now! [[(Reply from Atanas Atanasov:]] And Mr. Atanasov, do you recognize the Venezuelan elections? Can you give me an answer to that thing? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because I, apart from Russia and one or two countries, North Korea, think the Venezuelan elections from the civilized world we're supposed to belong to didn't recognize them. Why? What's stopping these machines in Venezuela? They're the same. They're the same, Mr. Atanasov. And now you're talking about rebirth. I have not been impressed by their statements that they hold a great love for GERB. Since this morning, several speeches have been largely against us. It's their right. What kind of synergy? We just find it wise to set up this committee, not to transfer the ball now to the Legal Committee, in three months, after two months... By the way, if you had voted today, if the President had put to the vote Delyan Dobrev's proposal and fellow MPs for this draft decision to seek compensation for businesses and had rejected it, this could have been tabled in a month. I think in a month it's very appropriate. I think the business will be very happy. At the earliest in a month, let's submit one of these proposals. Until then, the survivor survived! That's how you get trust when you do the right thing. But the election. You do not take into account an important fact many people do not believe in these machines. A lot of people, no matter what political power they're from. You have to do this. You have to! Do you understand that or not? If you don't understand it, you'll find it the hard way after a while. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u104	Thank you. Peter Nikolov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u105	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u106	Personal explanation, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u107	Thank you. I'll answer you, Mr. Atanasov, this way. Actually, Mr. Nenkov said that. We of the Coalition "GERB-SDS" recognise these elections for one reason because we love our country and do not want to ruin its reputation in front of the world, but we know that in these elections there were gigantic, huge and severe abuses. We know that over the past 30 years, there has been many times the practice of a political party on the eve of elections to change electoral legislation so as to set it up for itself. But never in these 30 years has this always been a rule hypocritical with any other arguments, have the parties never come out in a straight text to say, "We change the law so that we hit our political opponent. " - This has never happened. You (to DB) are already such a political force. Teach him! You are a political force that abuses electoral legislation. You are a political force that closed your eyes to severe abuse in the electoral process. You're such a political force. You are part of the dirtiest, worst thing in Bulgarian politics. [[Screams right:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u108	Enough already!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u109	Abuse of Bulgarian democracy. And do you know why you did it? To bring the Bulgarian Socialist Party back to power! That's why you did it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u110	Mr. Nikolov, I did not understand from your personal explanation what you were personally and individually affected by.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u111	Mr. Atanasov picked me up, mentioned my name, asked, asked for clarification and... [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u112	Okay. I didn't interrupt you, but I'm asking in the personal explanation of who was affected by what personally and individually. Mr. Ananiev, would you like a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct. A few times colleagues who spoke scared the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u114	What?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u115	And by the way, a very interesting synergy, again, between GERB and rebirth. One would enter parliament, the other would not be able to get out of parliament. Some people are going in, they're going out in this parliament. Please take some attitude, because if the MPs keep getting scared, I don't think it's right of this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u116	You're not scared, are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u117	If we were afraid, we wouldn't be here. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Another procedure? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I think that the debate should return a little on the draft decision, and it is for a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances of the machine vote. If there were any messages here about who is the bearer of democratic values, who recognizes the elections or not and how they have been held over the years, it is obvious to everyone that the several elections held this year led to a phenomenon of extremely low turnout. Is that denied by any of the political forces? No. Another undisputed fact was the one-night stand Election Code, which constructed the Central Election Commission in the way it is currently functioning, and with the votes of the majority in the 45th National Assembly, in which the parties of the protest took part, so-called. An undisputed fact! Undisputed fact that people, Bulgarian citizens, are worried in a certain part of the use of machines in the elections on 4 April and in the elections consecutively July and November respectively. I don't think anyone's denying that. However, another undisputed fact exists, colleagues, to whom I hope, if you have not so far paid attention, you will do so after my speech. This undisputed fact is that the facts, circumstances and problems with machines are spoken not only today in plenary or when the Election Code was voted, but also during the meetings of the Central Election Commission. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Central Election Commission has repeatedly discussed the issue with a report and, accordingly, with a draft decision on discrepancies between the machine vote and the corresponding reporting in the minutes, discrepancies with regard to the results of the machines themselves and decides how to proceed. For example, twice the Central Election Commission with rapporteur Mr. Voynov, who has been broadcast by the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, presented a report on failure to comply with the obligations under the contract with Siela Norma. That is to say, the report describes in detail the implementation of the contract of Siela Norma and respectively the discrepancies that the Central Election Commission and Siela Norma identify in terms of machine voting. Moreover, there is a second report submitted by Mr. Emil Voynov in relation to the analysis of the discrepancies in the machine voting in the elections on 14 and 21 November. Didn't you hear? Once again, colleagues, Mr. Voynov, who is from the BSP quota, twice with a report, raises the issue of the Central Election Commission for non-compliance with the engine vote in the elections on both the 14th and the 21st. He did so on another occasion before the previous elections. In this sense, all allegations about the participation of the parliamentary group of GERB and the suggestion that in some way we have influenced the electoral process, in some way we have influenced the levels of activity of Bulgarian citizens with threats and so on are absolutely ridiculous. This has been done twice by the Central Election Commission, and I hope that when the Legal Committee also examines the report of the Central Election Commission, it will take all considerations and, as colleagues have confirmed, we will be importers of amendments to the Election Code. It is precisely for these reasons that we are now going to support this decision tabled by our fellow Members of the AGE, because we believe that all facts and circumstances relating to the electoral process, all facts and circumstances relating to the discrepancies between machine and paper protocols, and everything else that we have been debating for more than 2 hours, should be clarified in the form of a Temporary Commission. This is useful not only for future legislative initiatives, but also for democracy at all. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line? For a line.. Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Okay, we understand that GERB does not recognise the elections in Venezuela, but what is much more important...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u122	Do you recognize them?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u123	Please, out of the way! We've heard your opinion. You're concerned about democracy in Venezuela, and I respect that. However, what I would like to highlight here in this line is this. The Central Election Commission does not have enough capacity, specialists and opportunities to organise an electoral process with machines that meets high standards. We all know that, but I don't hear why no one starts the debate on the release of the electoral administration from the political-quot principle................... something....that...Democratic Bulgaria.. and the parties that make up the coalition, we have always publicly insisted and you know this very well. We submitted a draft amendment to the Election Code in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, which contained exactly the idea of exempting the electoral administration from this electoral quota principle. However, what we see is that GERB is doing, including DPS, is using its quota in the Central Election Commission to lead a crusade against machine voting. And not only! We personally suffered your decisions about not recognising the electronic signature as valid in order to register in the election region of Stara Zagora. And then you get offended when it comes to your guidance being analog. Not humans are analog, your approaches are analog. And yes, the paper is important to you, and you have very persistently conducted a propaganda campaign that has forced the CEC to do the counting of paper scraps. We had a paper vote, ma'am! We did! We counted every paper cut under the strong insistence of GERB. What more can we do so that you don't doubt the Venezuelan elections?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. The time of the group of the Democratic Bulgaria is over. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Tsoneva, first of all, I find with great surprise that you do not distinguish between machine and paper voting and checking the result by counting receipts. I am truly deeply surprised by your ignorance of basic terms in the electoral process. Second, the CEC had no capacity! But aren't you the one who, in the majority of the 45th National Assembly, changed the Election Code so that this CEC could be appointed? But you don't remember this happening? You were a member of parliament! And thirdly, perhaps I should remind the "Democratic Bulgaria" that they wrote letters to the CEC. Do you remember that? This is why you insisted on checking the voting machines. Quoting: "Democratic Bulgaria" insists that they be granted access to the source code of voting machines according to the requirements of the Election Code. This code should be accessed by experts broadcast by the parties involved in the elections and coalitions. "Democratic Bulgaria" even filed a complaint with the CEC with the argument that the software will be changed because of the combination of presidential and parliamentary elections. This, according to the Democratic Bulgaria, required experts to gain access to the code and make sure how the software works and how the results will be calculated. For years you have been insisting that the participants in the electoral process have the opportunity to audit the machines so that the entire public can receive a guarantee of an honest vote and so on. You suggested doing a series of tests to determine which option to vote on one card or another was the most legitimate. I get the impression, first of all, that you forgot what happened just one, two or three months ago. You're not that old a party every 100 years to suffer from severe political amnesia, Mrs. Tsoneva. I turn around personally because you've made a line for me. Secondly, was there any verification of the election results as you insisted? No, right? Why do you not now support the establishment of this committee in order to have more clarity in the electoral process? Why I can't explain. The only explanation is because you are from the ruling majority of change, and you are no longer a protest party. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u126	Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u127	According to the regulations, she has no right to a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u128	Okay, I heard. According to art. 54, para. 1 The public representative shall be entitled to a personal explanation within two minutes of being personally affected in a speech. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group will support the establishment of this temporary committee, as we support the establishment of all temporary committees, because clarifying certain facts and circumstances relating especially to the electoral process is a positive phenomenon wherever you look at it. Firstly, the most important goal is to have confidence in the results of the electoral process, elections are the foundation of democracy, so we see nothing wrong with having a temporary committee to clarify all the facts and circumstances about this process. However, I would like to remind my colleagues and those who do not know that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is never opposed to the engine vote, quite the opposite. The idea of a machine vote is coming from Mrs. Tsoneva, now you will have the opportunity for a personal explanation and for a reply from not another party, but from DPS! In the Forty-fourth National Assembly our proposal for 100% machine vote was adopted by the plenary and was reflected in the Election Code. GERB then changed it, then in the forty-fiveth we accepted it again, but DPS is the author of this idea. Let me remind you why: because this is an extremely important issue; because the confidence in counting, in the work of the sectional election committees, had reached its lowest level; because errors were found in more than two thirds of the protocols of the SIC So it turns out that the subjective factor is destroying trust in the electoral process. That is why we have proposed the engine vote and it has been adopted. However, there are many nuances here that we see that most of the society does not know them, most of the plenary, too. So let me remind them. We were proposing a machine counting manual voting, which is completely different. All the chaos with the machines, all the access of all the people to the election process... Because the electoral process, apart from being transparent, honest, must be accessible. This is one of the principles that the electoral legislation must pursue is accessible to everyone, and we have seen the two choices that have been made with machines that are not available to everyone for one reason or another. Here the price has no bearing on it, because citizens with high cent and citizens with low educational or whatever they will have the same electoral rights. The constitution makes no difference and this is part of the fundamentals of democracy, and a part of the citizens did not have such an opportunity in this way of voting. But even in this way of voting, our President Mr. Karadaye has quite a long experience in this process and has been in the CEC for more than ten years, we have offered very important things in terms of certification of machines, in terms of software, in terms of software control, audit of software, even in terms of making machines, and not purchasing them from any company from somewhere, by fighting with the relevant software in two Parliaments to see who controls it, who gives it, who has capacity, who has no capacity and no one wants to understand in the whole process what is lost. Trust in the electoral process is lost in such disputes! That is why we believe that this topic is not closed. Given that this way of voting does not give the necessary results in terms of accessibility, transparency or honesty, then the National Assembly is obliged to open this page once again, and regardless of what the party interests of one or another are, what their views are and so on, to try to work out the technology of the electoral process to provide those things we talked about: accessibility for everyone, easy to vote, honesty, transparency, control and ultimately trust the election result. Such a commission can be an introduction to opening the page on how to vote machine, what to make machines, should we count what to do, what to improve, how to work CEC. The Central Election Commission did not have the capacity, but it should have because it is the authority responsible and there is no other authority. We see that the Ministry of Interior thinks they are responsible for the electoral process, but they do not respond to the CEC by law. And if we have to be even more specific, the Election Code contains what you're talking about for the signature. It says you have to carry the paperwork. Why can't I have an electronic signature? Well, that's what we're for. Indeed, there are problems, and such a temporary committee will only be a door to the opening of the process that we need to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u130	For a personal explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u131	In the context of the personal explanation, let me say: yes, I make a pretty big difference between paper and machine voting, but that is not important. Why do I stress that the big topic that needs to be opened is the capacity of the CEC? The Central Election Commission did not provide the source code despite all the insistences of "Democratic Bulgaria" and all the arguments that we pointed out within the three elections held this year. Why didn't you? It's because she's politically dependent. When making decisions in the CEC, when it comes to key decisions, the majority is determined on a political basis and we all know that in this Chamber. We have very bad experience with this type of vote. The vote in Stara Zagora is on this case and the court was adamant that it could not, and the Election Code allows the use of electronic signature when registering lists. And I'll say it again: the CEC didn't provide. Why didn't you deliver it? Because it forms its majority according to political interests. I'm sorry Mrs. Atanasova isn't here. As long as we continue in this Chamber to say so: Your representative at the CEC, BSP or so, we will never be able to convince people and political participants in the process that it is actually an independent body, that is, as long as we address its representatives according to their political representation. The CEC must be exempted from the political quota principle and be an independent professional body with a tight number of members and with a professional and very well prepared administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Colleagues, we had two personal explanations within the framework of this discussion, both having the nature of a statement on the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u133	Make a note of it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u134	Come on, no disciplinary action. Please, there have been two speeches and it has not been clear what the affected person has been affected with. Another is the character of the personal explanation. Here you go, Mr. Manev. Now you can make a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u135	No, I won't make a personal explanation in the manner of conduct. There's two things. You said half of what I wanted to make a comment about, Mr. Chairman. Let's stick to the subject we're talking about, and especially stick to the truth. For several hours now, I don't know how many people have spread a half-truth about how someone had blocked them in Stara Zagora. In fact, the system is as follows: in Stara Zagora, a wonderful lawyer from the quota of That's the truth about the case in Stara Zagora! Stop already with who is guilty and who is not guilty of you, specify yourself inside the coalition who has what things, let's go to the subject, and the topic is that in fact the Resurrection proposed a temporary committee that is about all the things related to these elections and with these machines to end them. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Colleague, very rarely I call you with "be" and "come" was, it's not very pleasant.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u136	Thank you, Mr. Manev. In the same spirit, I will continue as before with regard to the procedure in the manner of holding... also to be directed to the President rather than to the substance of the discussion. Any other speeches? I won't. I mentioned at the outset that the text of the project lacks points 5th and 6th which are "Select for President" and "Select for Vice-Presidents" and no one made a proposal. Here you go, but you don't have much time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u137	We'll handle the time we have. I am proposing to add a point:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u138	Mr. Drenchev, I suggest we make a new item five to be: I'm calling off the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote. First of all, we will vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov in the main item. 4 on the second page of the Project, the word "three" shall be replaced by "two" so that the Commission consists of two representatives from each parliamentary group. They voted 224 MPs: 106, against 63, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We are revising the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov. Vote 229 MPs: for 102, against 60, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev, and this is the text of the article. 7 of the Project to be amended by replacing the expression "three months" with "one month" so that the text can acquire the following form: "The Committee of the Court of Justice shall be elected for a period of one month." They voted 231 MPs: 99 against 70, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Drenchev, namely to create a new item. 5 with content: select as members of the multi-point committee, and renumber the existing one. 5, 6 and 7................................................................................................ 6, 7 and 8. Vote 230 MPs: for 103, against 56, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we are going to vote on the main text. Please vote on the main text by importer. They voted 232 MPs: for 100, against 93, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. For an explanation of a negative vote, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u139	Colleagues, I just wanted to summarize why I did not support the establishment of this committee and other colleagues. Pretty much two directions. Firstly, there is no need for such a committee because the protocols are available online and there is no need for a committee. Anyone can go and check what's actually counted and what's not. Secondly, as the colleague mentioned, the CEC will come up with a report that we will be able to examine in the relevant committee. Thirdly, if other MPs are in doubt, you can always request information in the appropriate order as MPs. The second main point is that a shadow is cast on the machines, and we believe that the engine vote was successful because, as other colleagues have also mentioned, the number of invalid ballots is insignificant compared to before. No one's challenged the election to the CEC officially, there's no difference in the notes. I checked a few protocols myself, and everyone I've talked to who was worried that the machines were hard to use said to me: after I voted, I actually saw that it was very easy to use and vote on the machine vote. So these are my arguments against. Thank you. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u140	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Any other explanations? I won't. That concludes item one of the agenda. I'm calling a break until 12:30. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u141	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. A request for a declaration has been made by the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u142	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the last thirty years, democratic Bulgaria has fought a hard battle to break up with its totalitarian past. The most aggressive, most brutal and at the same time the most perfidious part of this past is its repressive apparatus, in other words the structures of State Security, responsible for destroying the fates of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. If there is a territory where this battle was particularly fierce, this is the field of Bulgarian diplomacy and the system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Why? Because for 45 years it was the State Security that ensured that Bulgarian foreign policy was a function of the Kremlin foreign policy, and our diplomats a silent letter in the world of international policy. Fortunately, the Bulgarian right had the will to oppose the metastases of the communist and repressive apparatus and to isolate the collaborators of State Security from the decision-making process on the important issues of our foreign policy and our European and Atlantic integration. Therefore, in the years when the three governments of Boyko Borisov ruled, and during President Rosen Plevneliev's mandate, the practice of not being appointed to ambassadorial posts or political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs collaborators and agents of the Communist State Security was introduced. As early as 2011, on this occasion, the National Assembly adopted an explicit declaration calling off ambassadors belonging to totalitarian secret services. Today, Bulgaria is ruled by a new power, part of which has never apologized for its totalitarian past. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The result is clear "Secure Security" returned to a white horse not anywhere but in the political cabinet of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As we have seen, for only a week as Secretary General Ivan Petrov was appointed a secret associate of First General Government of State Security; Minister's advisor will be Petar Vodinski At the same time, the retirement of capable diplomats with great experience, who have participated directly in the negotiations, which will determine the protection of the Bulgarian national interest in the coming months, and our question is: when will we retire State Security? Last week in the vote of the new cabinet, we warned you that the State Security Network is preparing for restoration. Even from this tribune we have told you that dark primordial beings will crawl out of their lairs to conquer the state again. Unfortunately, the restoration happens before our eyes, much faster than expected. We wish to hear the views of the so-called parties of change........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Not to turn out that we were right about something else, that real power is actually in the Presidency, and the faces of change are a facade that falls dramatically apart. Apparently, the godfather of the coalition Rumen Radev is in a hurry to impose his will everywhere in the administration. We of Coalition GERB-SDS firmly state that we do not accept and will never accept the rehabilitation of the communist regime, its secret police and accept the appointments made for a targeted provocation against our country's European future. We therefore call on the ruling coalition parties to immediately fire those appointed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and join our assessment of the communist past. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u143	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for a change in today's agenda, namely: item three "Selecting permanent committees," to be seen as item two of this agenda, as far as I think we are already ready with the composition of the committees and we can... Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u145	You are making a proposal for point three to be considered point two. A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I am making a reverse proposal that the agenda for plenary remain as adopted. Yes, there is already an understanding between the parliamentary groups on the allocation of committee guides, but we are not ready yet, at least our parliamentary group, with the staff, because colleagues who participate in the Conference of Presidents are well aware that this morning only 8.30am at the Conference of Presidents have understood the division and number of committees. Therefore, please, we are currently working on the staff of the committees, to proceed with the point that is second in relation to the Temporary Commission. If necessary, perhaps we will extend the time for Parliament's work and thus end the vote on the committees, but we need a little more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u148	Given Daniel Mitov's touching speech, I suggest that we give GERB a second opportunity for a declaration, as what they asked for, it simply did not take place. With the same effect, I suggest that they make a declaration about the removal of Todor Zhivkov again with delay, as they are extremely fast in this regard. And it is also nice that they read a declaration to the services people whose head was in the power structures that renamed the names of the Bulgarian Turks. Thank you. [[(Applause from ITN and "We are continuing the Change", proclaimed by GERB-SDS: "Eee!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u149	Let's just get this proposal over with, and I'll give you the floor, Mr. Mitov. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Miroslav Ivanov. Vote 188 MPs: 124, against 61, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[Revoking from GERB-SDS.]] It's a re-vote. There's no need to argue on the ground. Last week, there were four requests for re-voting, and the four put forward arguments on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u150	It wouldn't be essentially the argumentation, but I actually want you to read art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure expressly stating that only the President may make a change to the agenda during a plenary session. So the vote itself is inadmissible under the Rules of Procedure. Do this procedure so that it may still be admissible under the Rules of Procedure. Let's not break the rules anyway. If you do it, okay, but just a MP can't. And by the way, it was introduced by Mrs. Miteva in the Rules of Procedure at the age of forty-five, if memory serves, but it is simply unacceptable by the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u151	Do you want a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u152	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u153	Okay, I'm offering it. I propose point two to be the election of Standing Committees. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] A reverse opinion? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] That's enough! That was admissible... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Okay. I suggest that the third item of the selection of Standing Committees should be considered as item two of the agenda for today, and that the existing item two, which is the draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission, remain as point three. We are voting on the proposal I just made. Vote 197 popular notions: 129, against 64, abstention 4. Please come in as per procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a proposal to extend working hours until the new agenda is adopted, namely the second item on the agenda, until the adoption of the full composition of the 24 committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u155	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Not exactly the opposite position, but rather the addition. Since we still have points for today's programme and additionally fixed for tomorrow, I propose that the time be extended to the conclusion and vote on item three.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u157	We have a separate proposal from you for the whole. First of all, we are voting on the proposal to extend the meeting until the end of item two, namely the election of permanent committees of the National Assembly. Vote 198 MPs: 122, against 73, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the meeting until the entire agenda of the day has been completed, including consideration of the Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission. The proposal was made by the MP Hristo Gazhev. 200 MPs voted: 69 against 112, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mitov, in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u158	Mr. Chairman, since we have entered into a slight hesitation in what procedure exactly we should use, it is in the manner of conduct in this case. Mr. Yordanov had no right to give me a replica of the declaration. [[IHN lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u159	I realize that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u160	I'm glad. I'm glad you're capable of such feelings. The question is: firstly, we handle official information. If you've got something off the record with your superiors, whoever they are, it's your business now, come out and say it. That one. Secondly, many of you in the election campaign promised that government security agents would not be appointed to the state administration and even talked about lustration. That is why you must now take responsibility, say what you think of what we have said and join our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u161	Okay, so we're done with these statements, and we're done with the personal explanations as well. Mr. Gutsanov, for a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A few moments ago, some untruths were said which place Bulgaria was on the UN ranking, not on the ranking of Bulgarian media or Bulgarian political formation. 29th place in the UN standard of living. At the moment, by standard of living we are after 60th place and interesting how during these difficult and bad years have we had an education in which there were no illiterates, in which there was a developed economy, one that we can only dream of right now?! What was healthcare then and what is healthcare now?! [[Noise and lines.]] And let's be objective when we do these analyses. As for the worthy officers who served in intelligence, let us not now make their rankings what they are and have a place in Bulgarian politics! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u163	Thanks for the statement. There has been a request for a break from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. [[Noise and lines.]] Take 15 minutes off. That's the minimum rule of law. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u164	We continue the meeting with item two of the agenda: SELECTION OF STANDING COMMITMENTS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. A draft decision on the election of the Budget and Finance Committee by the National Representative Victoria Vasileva and a group of MPs was deposited. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, al. 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 1, art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Budget and Finance consists of 23 MPs, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of GERB SDS; 6 from the Parliamentary Group of GERB SDS; 3 from the Parliamentary Group of the DSS; 3 from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Discussion on the presented project? Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I shall put to the vote the submitted project. Vote 183 MPs: for 179, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I ask for nominations for the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change I propose for the Commission: Venko Sabrutev, Ivaylo Shotev, Plamen Shalafov, Andrey Gurov, Iskren Mitev, Venice Netzova-Angova, as Vice-President I propose Venko Sabrutev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u168	From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ for members I propose: Kiril Ananiev, Delyan Dobrev, Temenuzhka Petkova, Krasimir Valchev, Irena Dimova and Alexander Ivanov. As Vice-President, I propose Mr. Kiril Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. From the DPS parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Members of the Commission, I propose the Members of the Commission: Yordan Tsonev, Petar Chobanov and Bayram Bayram, as the People's Representative Yordan Tsonev propose as Vice-President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u172	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria, I propose Professor Rumen Gechev as Vice-President and as Members Vladimir Marinov and Blagovest Kirilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u174	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" I propose Kiril Sashev Simeonov and Lubomir Antonov Karimanski. I propose Mr. Karimanski as President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u176	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, as Commissioners, I propose Mr. Vladislav Panev and Mr. Georgi Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u178	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u179	On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party, I propose Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u180	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Discussion on the proposed members and on the management of the Permanent Committee on Budget and Finance? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the proposed nominations. Vote 208 MPs: for 208, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The draft decision for the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs by the National Representative Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs was deposited. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 2, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs consists of 23 Members of Parliament, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of the 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u182	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. There aren't any. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the proposed draft decision. They voted 207 MPs: for 207, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, please come in for nominations for Commissioners. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Commissioners we propose Milen Mateev, Petar Koosev, Petar Kulenski, Stoyu Stoev, Dimitar Gochev, Miroslav Ivanov, and as President of the Commission we propose Milen Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u184	Thank you. On behalf of GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ we propose as members of the Commission: Anna Alexandrova, Branimir Balachev, Ekaterina Zaharieva, Stefan Mirev, Dani Kanazireva and Nikolina Angelkova. As Vice-President of the Commission, we propose Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. On behalf of the DPS, come in, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary group's proposals for this committee are: Hamid Hamid, Guner Ahmed and Tsvetan Enchev, as Vice-President of Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u188	Thank you. "BSP for Bulgaria"?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u189	On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria I propose: Vice-President Philip Popov, and members: Krum Zarkov and Yavor Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u190	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. There's such a people. Come on in, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" we propose as Commissioners: Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and Andrei Nikolaev Mihailov by proposing Mr. Andrey Mihailov as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u192	Thank you. Mrs. Belobradova, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Commissioners, we propose Mr. Atanas Slavov and Mr. Hristo Ivanov as Vice-President, we propose Atanas Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u194	Please come on behalf of the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party, we propose Petar Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u196	Peter Petrov for member. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have heard five proposals for Vice-Presidents, I propose that, first of all, we vote on the members and the President. The only nomination was Milen Mateev. We will then move on to the vote of the Vice-Presidents as they go beyond the permissible number in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Heckling]] Maybe I was wrong. Okay. Anna Alexandrova is the proposal of GERB-SDS; Hamid Hamid... excuse me, for Vice-President, right? Yeah. Two. Philip Popov three, Andrey Mihailov four, and Atanas Slavov. [[Heckling]] Mrs. Belobradova, the proposal for Atanas Slavov is only for a member or for... [[Heckling]] For a dick only? [[Heckling]] And vice-president. That's five. [[Heckling]] Yes, a brief discussion, I apologize. [[Noise and lines.]] You guys need more time to talk? Let's move on and we'll come back for the vote here. Are there any speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Are there five nominations left?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u197	We withdraw the proposal for Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u198	You're withdrawing Hamid Hamid as vice president? Okay, thank you. This leaves four nominations for Vice-Presidents: Anna Alexandrova, Philip Popov, Andrey Mihaylov and Atanas Slavov. Please vote on the proposals. They voted 223 MPs: 205 against 18 abstentions. The motion is accepted. The draft decision for the election of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation by Martin Dimitrov was deposited. I ask the importer to present the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 3, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation consists of 21 Members of Parliament, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u200	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I'm opening the debate on the proposed project. No speeches? I'm shutting it down. We're going to vote on the Project. They voted 210 MPs: 210, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I'm asking for nominations. Here we are on behalf of the "We are continuing the Change."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" we offer as members: Alexander Rakshiev, Iskren Mitev, Denitsa Simeonova, Michal Kambarev, Viktor Nasser, Venice Netzova-Angova and as vice-presidents we offer Alexander Rakshiev and Iskren Mitev. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u202	On behalf of GERB-SDS, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of GERB-SDZ, we propose to elect as members of the Committee on Economic Policy: Alexander Ivanov, Tomislav Donchev, Zhecho Stankov, Desislava Trifonova and Rumen Hristov, with Alexander Ivanov as Vice-President. And I ask only colleagues to make a statement as to whether two Vice-Presidents from the Parliamentary Group have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u204	Okay. Let's move on now. On behalf of the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, on behalf of Mr. Yordan Tsonev, Mrs. Adelen Shevked and Mrs. Neby Kabak, as Mrs. Adlen Shevked, we offer her as Vice-President and will argue why. Colleagues, in this National Assembly, there was a period during which there were parliamentary groups of 134 members. There was a period during which there were parliamentary groups with 120 group members. There was a period during which there were parliamentary groups with 117 members of the group. Such a thing was not to have two alternates from the ruling or chairman and deputy, such as the opposition not taking part in committee guides. This is the main argument on which we propose a Vice-President in the Commission and do not believe that it is a good practice to take all the leading positions of the ruling coalition, and even worse is the idea of one of the ruling majority groups to take up the vice-presidential positions. Otherwise, you guys can decide whatever you want. It seems your idea is to decide instead of the other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u207	In a nutshell, Mr. Chairman, it's a procedure. Thank you for your attitude, Mr. Karadayi. We withdraw our proposal as Vice-President to be Iskren Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u208	Is it true Mitev you're withdrawing him? Okay, thanks. Mr. Svilenski, BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria I propose Petar Kanev as Vice-President and Professor Rumen Gechev as a member.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u210	Thank you. On behalf of the "There is such a people"?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Economic Policy Committee Ivo Georgiev Atanasov and Snezanka Raychova Trajanska there is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u212	Thank you. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the Commission we propose Martin Dimitrov and Petar Marinov, Martin Dimitrov we propose him as President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u214	Thank you. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u215	Thank you. On behalf of the AGE, we offer Stoyan Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u216	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on the proposed nominations. We are closing the discussion on the proposed nominations. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 215 MPs: for 215, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The draft decision for the election of the Energy Commission by Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs was deposited. You're welcome to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 4, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Energy Committee consists of 21 MPs, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u218	Thank you. I am opening the discussion on the presented project. We are closing the discussion on the presented project. Please vote on the Project. They voted 207 MPs: for 207, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. On behalf of
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we propose as Commissioners: Radoslav Stefanov Ribarski, Vladimir Tabutov, Venko Sabrutev, Nikolay Angov, Ivan Manev, Vasil Stefanov, as Chairman we offer Radoslav Ribarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u220	Thank you. On behalf of GERB-SDS, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of GERB-SDS, we propose to elect as Commissioners: Delyan Dobrev, Temenuzhka Petkova, Zhecho Stankov, Alexander Nenkov and Rositsa Kirova, as Delyan Dobrev we propose to be Vice-President of the Energy Commission. And beyond this proposal, Mr President, as we have heard the nomination of the group, we are continuing the Change for Mr. Ribarski, perhaps after the vote and the election of members and the leadership of the Energy Commission to terminate the interim committee, which Mr. Ribarski also heads, because I only remind colleagues, there is a subcommittee in the Energy Committee that is directly involved in the work of the KEWR. I believe that much more appropriate will be the decisions taken in terms of the energy crisis, to be taken in the subcommittee and, accordingly, the permanent one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u222	Thank you. On behalf of the DPS, come in, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u223	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose as members: Mr. Ramadan Atalay, Fatme Ramadan, Stanislav Anastasov and Vice-President Mr. Ramadan Atalay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u224	Thank you. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria we offer MPs Dragomir Stoynev and Emil Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u226	Thank you. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the parliamentary group there is such a people for the Energy and Climate Committee we offer Mr. Tihomir Gochev Tenev and Momchil Kunchev Ivanov, as Mr. Tenev we also propose for Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u228	Thank you. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose Vladislav Panev and Ivaylo Mirchev, Ivaylo Mirchev as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u230	Thank you. And on behalf of ARCHER, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of a party, we are proposing Iskra Mihailova as a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u232	Thank you. I'm opening the discussion on the proposed nominations. There aren't any people who want to make a statement. We're closing the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 214 MPs: for 213, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The draft decision on the election of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government by Andrej Gurov and a group of MPs has been deposited. You're welcome to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u233	Thank you, Lord Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 5, art. 18, para 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government consists of 21 MPs, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u234	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. I am opening a discussion on the proposed project. We are closing the discussion on the proposed project. Please vote. They voted 210 MPs: 210, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u235	On behalf of the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" we propose as Commissioners: Nastimir Ananiev, Yordan Terziyski, Julia Ivanova, Bogomil Petkov, Lozko Lozev, Dimitar Tashev. For President, we propose Nastimir Ananiev, and for Vice-President of Jordan Terziyski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u236	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS we propose as members of the Committee on Regional Policy and Public Works: Petya Avramova, Nikolay Nankov, Alexander Nenkov, Mladen Shishkov and Ivan Totev. We propose Petya Avramova as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u238	Thank you. On behalf of the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman! The DPS Parliamentary Group we propose as Commissioners: Halil Letifov, Escheref Escheref and Tsvetan Enchev, and we also propose as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u240	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u241	For vice-president.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u242	Yes, thank you. "BSP for Bulgaria"?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria we offer Borislav Gutsanov and Manol Genov as members.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u244	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. On behalf of the "There is such a people"? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" for members of the Committee on Regional Policy we propose Snezanka Raychova Trajanska and Georgi Stanchev Georgiev, as Georgi Georgiev we propose as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u246	Thank you. On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Zarko Marinov is proposed on behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u248	Mrs. Belobradova, according to the Project there are two of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgaria. Are you suggesting only one?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u250	Okay, thank you. On behalf of ARCHIVER, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Resurrection Group, we propose Elena Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u252	I'm opening the discussion on the nominations. We're closing the discussion. Please vote. They voted 199 MPs: 182 against 9, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The draft decision for the election of the Committee on Foreign Policy by Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs was deposited. You're welcome to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 6, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Foreign Policy consists of 17 MPs, of which: 5 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:....
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u254	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. I am opening the discussion on the presented project. We are closing the discussion on the presented project. Please vote on it. [[Noise and lines.]] A little quiet, please. Vote 206 MPs: for 206, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Stefanov, to present the nominations on behalf of We continue the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue The Change I propose for Commissioners: Ventislava Lyubenova, Atanas Mihnev, Radoslav Vassilev, Alexandra Korcheva, Borislav Antonov, as President of the Commission we propose Ventislava Lyubenova and for Vice-President Atanas Mihnev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u256	Thank you. On behalf of GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, I propose for Commissioners: Ekaterina Zaharieva, Daniel Mitov, Gunay Heusmen and Pavel Hristov. Ekaterina Zaharieva is also proposed as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u258	Thank you. On behalf of the DPS? Here you go, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Imren Mehmedova and Mr. Stanislav Anastasov, as Mr. Stanislav Anastasov, are proposed as Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u260	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria I propose Christian Vigenin and Professor Georgi Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u262	Thank you. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the parliamentary group there is such a people for the Committee on Foreign Policy I propose Victoria Dimitrova Vasileva and Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u264	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a member of the Commission on behalf of "Democratic Bulgaria" I propose Stoyan Mihalev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u266	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u267	On behalf of the parliamentary group of a party, I propose for Commissioner Angel Georgiev, him and Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u268	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on the proposed nominations. We're closing the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 198 MPs: for 197, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The draft decision on the election of the European Union Commission by Andrej Gurov and a group of MPs has been deposited. Here you are, Mr. Stefanov, to propose the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the European Union Committee on Issues The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 7, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on European Union Affairs consists of 17 Members of Parliament, of which: 5 from the Parliamentary Group of the European Union We are continuing the Change, 4 from the Parliamentary Group of GERB SDS, 2 from the Parliamentary Group of the 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:... (BG) Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u270	Thank you. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. We are closing the discussion on the proposed project. Please vote on the Project. They voted 199 MPs: for 199, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Stefanov, if you'd like to propose nominations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the members, I propose Denitsa Simeonova, Alexandra Milcheva, Snezhana Apostolova, Ekaterina Dimitrusheva, Gergana Daneva. For Vice-President we propose Denitsa Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u272	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ proposes that members of the Commission on EU Affairs be: Tomislav Donchev, Denitsa Nikolova, Hristo Gajev and Desislava Trifonova by proposing Tomislav Donchev as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u274	Thank you. On behalf of the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u275	The Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms is proposing to the MPs to elect as members of the Commission Alizan Yahova and Mario Rangelov, as Mr. Rangelov we propose as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u276	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria I propose as members of the Commission the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Dragomir Stoinev by proposing Mr. Dragomir Stoinev as President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u278	Thank you. On behalf of the "There is such a people"?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u279	Dear Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the European Union Members of the European Union, I propose Silvi Kirilov Petrov and Stanislav Svetzarov Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u280	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Hristo Ivanov is proposed as Commissioner on behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u282	Thank you. On behalf of rebirth?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u283	Dear Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the parliamentary group of a party, I propose for member Stoyan Taslakov, we also propose him as Vice-President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u284	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on the nominations. We're closing the discussion. Please proceed to the vote. Vote 206 MPs: for 206, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The draft decision on the election of the Defence Committee has been deposited. Georgi Svilensky is the importer. I'd like the importer to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u285	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We offer you: Project! DECISION on the election of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 8 and art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Defence Committee consists of 17 MPs, of which: 5 from the Parliamentary Group of "We Continue the Change", 4 from the Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDS, 2 from the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria", 2 from the Parliamentary Group of "BSP for Bulgaria", 2 from the Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people", 1 from the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria", 1 from the Parliamentary Group of Party Reenactivation. 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. Selects the Commission's leadership in composition: President and 4 Vice-Presidents as follows: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u286	Thank you. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. There aren't any. We're closing the discussion. Please proceed to the vote on the presented project. They voted 199 MPs: for 199, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Stefanov, to present the nominations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change I propose for Commission members: Blagovest Belev, Yuri Kozlov, Radoslav Ribarski, Hristo Simeonov, Viktor Nasser, and for Vice-President Blagovest Belev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u288	Thank you. On behalf of GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS I propose Hristo Gadzhev, Mladen Marinov, Ivelin Ivanov, Dimitar Ivanov as Vice-President we propose Hristo Gadzhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u290	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. On behalf of the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u291	The Parliamentary Group for Rights and Freedoms is proposing for members of the Commission the MPs Elhan Kulkov and Jayhan Ibryamov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u292	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria I propose as Chairman of the Defence Commission Atanas Zafirov and member Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u294	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. There is such a people? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" for the Defence Commission I propose Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov and Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov by proposing Alexander Alexandrov as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u296	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Commissioner, we propose Mr. Atanas Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u298	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of Party Resurrection.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u299	On behalf of the ARRANGEMENT, we propose Nikolai Drenchev as a member, the same as Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u300	Thank you. I'm opening the discussion on the proposed nominations. There aren't any. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. 200 MPs voted: for 199, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The draft decision for the election of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order was deposited by the National Representative Atanas Slavov. You're welcome to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 9, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order consists of 21 MPs, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. I am opening the discussion on the presented project. There aren't any. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. They voted 199 MPs: for 197, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we propose as Commissioners: Rena Stefanova, Kalin Ivanov, Yuri Kozlov, Nikolay Angov, Inna Ivanova, Kaloyan Ikonomov, and for her Vice-President we offer Rena Stefanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u304	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Commissioners we propose: Hristo Terziyski, Mladen Marinov, Manoil Manev, Ivelin Ivanov and Radomir Cholakov. As Vice-President of the Commission, we propose Hristo Terziyski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u306	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As members of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, we propose gentlemen: Mustafa Karadayi, Ahmed Ahmedov and Guner Ahmed, as Mr Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov we propose as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u308	Thank you. Here you are on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria I propose Krum Zarkov as a member and Boyko Klechkov as Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u310	Thank you. There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u311	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" for members of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order we propose Nikolay Stefanov Radulov and Victoria Dimitrova Vasileva by proposing Nikolay Radulov as Vice President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. "Democratic Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we offer Atanas Atanasov and Ivaylo Mirchev, as Atanas Atanasov we propose as President of the Commission. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u314	Thank you. And rebirth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the ARRANGEMENT, we propose as Commissioner Peter Petrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u316	Thank you, Mr. Ruschev. I think we are again facing a hypothesis of five nominations for Vice-Presidents: Rena Stefanova on behalf of The Change Continued; Hristo Terziyski on behalf of GERB-SDS; Ahmed Ahmedov on behalf of the DPS; Boyko Klechkov and Nikolai Radulov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u317	We withdraw Ahmed Ahmedov's offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u318	You are withdrawing Ahmed Ahmedov's proposal for Vice-President. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion on the nominations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u319	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to express my own opinion, not the opinion of the parliamentary group. At last year's protests, over 300 days, I think it was these young people who wanted a change in the model of government of the state, of this criminal model that has existed over the past 12 years. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] During the previous National Assembly, I expressed a personal opinion that two of the parliamentary groups The other one is here, they have nothing to do with this change. I would like to address the mandate carrier from "We are continuing the Change." The main word, the main motto of the protests and in your election campaign, is "Change." I do not agree and will express my personal opinion as President of the Commission for General Atanasov, to whom I apologize for having my back to him, but that is his position in Parliament. When we want a change to be made, we have made changes to the Rules and this change in one of the texts: [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] This is an extremely responsible post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. This is one of the most important committees and citizens' demands for a change in the governance model are also directed against the status quo. General Atanasov for 20 years has been part of this status quo in various forms I would like to express this opinion because the representatives of his party, his members want his resignation, and at some point we elect him to two responsible posts: the Vice-President of Parliament and the Chairman of the Security Committee. Maybe you'd say that's none of your business because you're not part of this party. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I am a member and my party is such a member of a coalition and as such, as a participant in this coalition, I will be asked this question: what change will you make with people of the status quo? Therefore, I will ask General Atanasov: take a reprieve from the chairman of this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u320	The weather, Mr. Atanasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u321	This will be the moral and responsible behavior towards voters who wish to change the governance model. I have remarks to two other members, but this is no longer my business, because they are not part of our coalition. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u322	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna recuse myself, and I'm just gonna say a few sentences. [[noise, laughter, applause and lines: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS]] I don't know what status quo you're putting me in, but I've never been in a ruling position and I don't know what you're talking about in the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u324	You'll remember!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u325	Otherwise, when you talk about the protests, I was at the squares and the Eagle Bridge last year, but I didn't see you there, so I don't know what status quo I'm saying again, you put me in. Otherwise, the fact that GERB is applauding my candidacy makes me happy. [[Reply from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u326	Not from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u327	I think there's something I can do to change what was happening in internal and public security. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u328	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u329	He was chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u330	We get it. Here you are, Mr. Karadayi, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u331	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, you are both Atanassovs, to you I address [[indicating to the Member of Parliament from the Chamber]] . You wonder where and how the change continues here from the stands?! I think the move of change is clear and I've seen it in the last few months and the last few days. The change continues to take skeletons out of the closet and return in periods before 1989, as an association, including as actions by the Ministry of Interior for the last few months. And from this point of view, at least for me it is quite normal for the militia of the last months to be Mr. Rashkov, and it is normal for me to have Mr. Atanasov as chairman of the Internal Commission, so we have nothing to wonder about. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u332	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. There aren't any. Mr. Atanasov, should we consider your statement an objection within the meaning of the Rules against General Atanasov's nomination in order to put him to a separate vote? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u333	Mr. Chairman, I am a clear, consistent and loyal coalition partner. I asked General Atanasov to withdraw from the Commission. If he does not wish, I will respect the wishes of my parliamentary group and vote for it, but I have given my reasons because I am obliged to expose them to the people who voted for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u334	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We're going to vote the nominations in full. Vote 175 MPs: 120 against 49, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. A draft decision on the election of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications has been deposited. The importer is Vasil Stefanov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Stefanov, to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 10 and art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications consists of 14 MPs and is formed on a money-based principle by two from each parliamentary group. 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. The Commission shall be chaired alternately for one parliamentary session, according to the number of parliamentary groups, successively by the members of the Commission. 4. In the absence of the President, the Commission shall be headed by the next rotating President, as set out in paragraph 1. 3." - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u336	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. We're closing the discussion. Please vote. Vote 180 MPs: 180, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Welcome to the nominations on behalf of We are continuing the Change. Mr. Stefanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u337	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" I propose Kaloyan Ikonomov and Ivaylo Shotev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u338	Thank you. On behalf of GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u339	On behalf of GERB-SDS, I propose Desislava Atanasova and Hristo Terziyski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u340	Thank you. On behalf of the DPS? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose Hamid Hamid and Elhan Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u342	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria I propose Atanas Zafirov as a member and Philip Popov as a rotating chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u344	Thank you. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u345	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of "There is such a people" I propose Nikolai Radulov and Svetlin Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u346	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose Ivan Dimitrov and Atanas Atanasov as members of the Commission on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u348	Thank you. From rebirth?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the ARRANGEMENT, I propose Nikolai Drenchev and Georgi Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u350	Thank you. I'm opening the discussion on the proposed nominations. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u351	Dear Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Without prejudice to any of the nominees, I believe that all or most of them are people who deserve, but I have one question. Article 21, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure states the following:........................................................................................................................................................................ 6 are formed on a parietal principle so far well the Commission for Control of the Security Services and so on is chaired on a rotational basis for a parliamentary session according to the number of parliamentary groups. With all due respect to Mr. Popov, but as far as I know, BSP is not the largest parliamentary group. And here's the question: how long will we keep these rules? Because according to the logic of the Rules of Procedure, the President of this committee must be from.. We continue the Change......................................................... the Change.................................... That's the logic of the Rules. If you wanted us to change it last week. But we've already voted on it. These rules have come into force. That's why I have the question: how do we follow the rules?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u352	Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gajev, you have read the Rules of Procedure correctly. Each parliamentary group is proposing its rotating chairman. That is, we are now saying that Mr. Philip Popov is the rotating chairman, and when the time comes, he will become the chair, so perhaps the other Members should make their proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u354	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to ask our rotating chairman to be Kaloyan Ikonomov of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u356	Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, it is correct to say which are the rotating presidents and to be elected now, because when it comes time to become presidents, they will not be legitimate if there is no act of the House. For a rotating chairman of our group, I propose Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u358	Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on behalf of GERB-SDS, in order to be correct, I propose Desislava Atanasova for the rotating chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u360	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u361	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of "There is such a people" I propose Nikolai Radulov to be the rotating chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u362	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u363	I propose Ivan Dimitrov as the rotating chairman on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u364	Here you go, Mr. Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u365	For a rotating chairman on behalf of the National Revival, I propose Nikolai Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u366	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. Please vote on the nominations. Vote 190 MPs: 187 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. A project for the election of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry has been deposited. Importers are Victoria Vassileva and a group of MPs. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u367	Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 11, art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forests consists of 21 MPs, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. It shall elect members of the Commission. 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u368	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. We're closing the discussion. Please vote. Vote 191 MPs: 189, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Stefanov, for nominations on behalf of We continue the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" I propose for members of the Commission Rosen Kosturkov, Marin Shishev, Tatyana Sultanova-Siveva, Ivan Manev, Stoyan Georgiev and Alexander Dunchev. As Vice-President of the Commission, I propose Rosen Kosturkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u370	Thank you. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u371	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the group of GERB-SDS I propose Desislava Taneva, Rumen Hristov, Irena Dimova, Maria Belova, Georgi Stankov, as Vice-President I propose Desislava Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u372	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Committee of Rights and Freedoms, I propose as members of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the MPs Alizan Yahova, Imren Mehmedova and Dimitar Avramov, such as Alizan Yahova, I propose as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u374	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria I propose Vladimir Marinov and Veska Nencheva as members of the Commission. Thank you. Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is such a people for the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forests I propose Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski and Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova by proposing Plamen Abrovski as Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u377	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u378	On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" I propose as members of the Commission Zornitsa Stratieva and Zarko Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u379	Thank you. And rebirth?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Relation Group, we propose as Commissioner Daniel Petrov, the same as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u381	Thank you. I'm opening the discussion on the nominations. There aren't any. I'm calling off the discussion. We're going to vote on nominations. Vote 186 MPs: for 186, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The draft decision on the election of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee has been deposited. Importers "Sandy Gyurov and Rena Stefanova. Here you go, Mrs. Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u382	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 12, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee consists of 23 Members of Parliament, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u383	Thank you, Mrs. Stefanova. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. I'm calling off the discussion on the proposed project. Please vote. Vote 191 MPs: for 191, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Stefanov, for nominations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we propose as Commissioners Alexandra Korcheva, Radoslav Vassilev, Galina Georgieva, Iskren Arabadjiev, Lozko Lozev, and as Vice-President Alexandra Korcheva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u385	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For members of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee we offer Denitsa Sacheva, Iliana Zhekova, Ivan Chervenkov, Krasen Krastev, Valeri Lachovski and Asen Baltov. We propose Denitsa Sacheva as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u387	Thank you. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u388	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As members of the Commission, the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament for Rights and Freedoms is proposing the MPs Hasan Ademov, Adlen Shevked and Sevim Ali, and we are proposing Dr. Hasan Ademov as Vice President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u389	Thank you. "BSP for Bulgaria"?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria we offer as members Vyara Emilova, Momchil Nenov and Maya Dimitrova, as Maya Dimitrova we also propose as vice-president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u391	Thank you. Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u392	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is such a people in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy we offer Momchil Kunchev Ivanov and Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u393	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Michalev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u394	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose as members Elisaveta Belobradova and Georgi Ganev, as Vice-President we propose Elisaveta Belobradova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u395	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u396	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party, I propose Georgi Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u397	Thank you. And further discussions will be required again. We have no proposal for a chairman, but we have five proposals for Vice-Presidents. [[(Laughter) Noise and lines.)]] I'm opening the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday afternoon, we received an invitation to the Presidential Council of the National Assembly, scheduled for today at 8.30. At the same Chairmanial Council this morning, we learned that Mrs Mukaddes Nalbant and I attended the meeting that the coalition council, the majority have decided, have decided on a movement for rights and freedoms to chair the Labour and Social Policy Committee. On behalf of our group and on behalf of all our colleagues, I thank you for your trust, but it has been a practice for 31 years to do these things with dialogue, with consultations, with conversations between all parliamentary groups. In fact, we've known this technique since 2009. The first steps of GERB. They, too, colleagues, had decided, without consulting, to give a Parliamentary committee a movement of rights and freedoms, but they had at least shown the courage to inform us the day before about their decision. You guys didn't do that either. You are the change, and you follow in their footsteps. You're doing the same thing, even worse than they are. There is no way, honourable Members, that anyone can make decisions that concern the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and without having talks with the DPS. There is no way that the DPS will accept your decision as such without having a conversation. We have stated here from the first day that we will be constructive opposition, we will talk to you. I am sure that through dialogue, we will find a solution to every matter. You have treated the parliamentary group with such contempt for rights and freedoms. We can't let anyone make decisions for us. We're open to dialogue from now on, we can talk. I suppose you'll learn from this decision. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u399	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u400	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take occasion from Mr Hamid's statement to say that no conversation has been made with us regarding the committees either. We have now found out this morning that we will be given a chair in the Committee on Religions. Probably for the ruling majority is some kind of committee that is underestimated and given as much as not having a committee chairman who controls a possible ministry. We will accept this charity for nothing else, but because we do not want to offend the religious communities in Bulgaria, for which this committee is important. It may be some kind of blue-collar committee for you, but for these people it is important and our respect for all religious communities in Bulgaria does not allow us to give it up, otherwise we would give it up. We're only doing this so we don't insult them. The way you handled the division of committees differs, by the way, even from the 46th National Assembly, where confrontation was much more serious. Although there was a serious confrontational environment there, then the ruling majority still invited us to some talks, we discussed the committees. Some agreement has been reached, and despite the short work of that parliament, these committees have been put to work. Now you've decided to do it this way. I guess the reason for this isn't that you don't like us, you just decided to distribute a square there. Otherwise, we're against quotas for the CEC, but when it comes to being chairman of a committee, we're gonna kill each other here. We've also been committee chairmen. We don't have any enthusiasm, much more that we're in opposition, but know that what you're doing is not good. Whether someone will be chairman of the committee or an ordinary member, it does not matter for them to do their job. The only difference is you'll get a possible driver and a car. Be as healthy and as healthy as you are, but that's not how it's done. You could have called us, you could have said, "Hey, guys, we don't have enough committees." Here we are four formations, each one must take something. There's three left for you. Take even the Complaints and petitions and other such committees, and we will take them because we want to be superiors! Don't lie to people that you're some A-team and that you've proposed A-team committee chairmen here. No A team, please! Unfortunately, you underestimate some things because there are people who have experience between you and the four parties. They could be chairmen of at least the important committees. You underestimate even many important committees, and very soon you will make sure that you have made mistakes because we have accepted a budget update here once and remember that you should thank Mr. Tsonev for removing the update. Because if it wasn't for him, some reports were written, and they kept banging and all kinds of things. It's a specific activity. Prepare yourselves well, because the Legal Commission, come on, Mr. Karimansky already has experience in Budget, but he knows what it's like to get a flying start on a heavy commission. For the other committees, if you think it's just a car ride, you've got a lot of lies. There's technical work there. [[Replication by MP Desislava Atanasova. Laughter and excitement in GERB SDS.]] Okay, well, some will walk, probably, that they can even take pictures by walking. We walk again, but we don't take pictures. I see Mr. Gambler's sick of it. God willing, he'll be chairman of a committee one day, and why not a minister. [[Noise and lines.]] Good luck to you. We'll help you as much as we can! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u401	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. A line to Mr. Bikov? I won't. A statement? Alexander Nenkov. Mr. Nenkov, is it for the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u402	That's where I'll concentrate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u403	Okay. And it's on the nominations for her.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u404	I might turn a little bit, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u405	No, no, no very sharp turns. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u406	Colleagues, the subject is extremely important. The reason for my speech is what my colleague Hamid said, it is a principle of work, it is not specifically about the Committee on Social Policy. But colleagues, we have no desire to take responsibility with you. You should know that. You're responsible. You are the four parties that you have arranged in some strange way the guidelines of these committees and we do not want in any way to participate in what is going to happen. We're opposition, and that's what we're gonna be. Thus, people have defined and we will respect this democratic principle. Colleagues, I have a warning for you. You are on your way to the four parties, to turn into a cliché the sentence: Let's return parliamentaryism. " - I don't know where you're going to return this parliamentaryism. This is not about whether you respect the opposition or not, this is about respect for what the Bulgarian voters have given. GERB has ruled for many years and always, here behind me is Mr. Vigenin, Petar Kanev, other colleagues who have led important... [[a line from MP Desislava Atanasova]] , Hasan Ademov, with all due respect to him, all these colleagues, not to mention, were chairmen of committees, and GERB had a majority, together with the United patriots, and if we had decided, we might not have given any committee, only this is not how it is done. Don't act like it! This is not democracy, it is not the parliamentaryism that you have so seriously proclaimed for several months. Again, this is not respect or disrespect. We don't want you to respect us. We want you to respect what the Bulgarian voters have done through their vote, because this is representative democracy, even more so, that this is the meaning of democracy when power deters. When you do have chairmen of the opposition committees, which is a sign of high growth in the thinking of the Democrats, and they are chairmen of committees, where they will meet portfolio ministers and still have some parliamentary control, yes, the President cannot solve any subject, but he can still put different topics, demand information.. He has more powers than an ordinary member of the committee. This is an even better guarantee to have control over the executive power, and you are doing the opposite. However, could someone from the ruling majority come out and tell me on what principle the guidelines were distributed in these committees? Once again, we do not want to have leading ones, I just want someone to come out and say what the principle is. Because a moment ago it was about how you didn't have to do it on a party basis, on party quotas, but actually today what we are voting on is clear evidence that, in fact, when you're enjoying it, you don't like to have a quota principle, but obviously in today's situation, it's the opposite. How do you explain to me that, for example, "Democratic Bulgaria" "without personal attitude towards each of the colleagues who will take a position of interest, how "Democratic Bulgaria" has three chairmen of committees, and GERB, which is the second most powerful parliamentary group of two percent of the first, has one, and it, without insulting religion, Bikov, said well enough why he would take over this committee, but it is ultimately not structural and it is not intended to control any ministry. Can anyone come out, though............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u407	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm calling off the discussion. No, are there actually going to be any changes in nominations? Here you go, Mr. Michalev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u408	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In this situation, we, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the "Democratic Bulgaria," are withdrawing our candidacy for Vice-President of Elisaveta Belobradova and we are proposing the same candidacy for President of the Commission. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u409	Thank you, Mr. Mihalev. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, obviously, the National Assembly is much more excited about its own life. The possible election of someone in committees and not on other topics that are vital to the Bulgarians, but this aside, we have already spoken this morning. What I have to say, although I had no intention of taking the floor, is with regard to the lack of dialogue between the parliamentary groups on the division of committees, numbers and executive positions. I am doing so after surprisingly "Democratic Bulgaria" called for its nomination for Vice-President and proposed Chairman. Nothing personal, Mrs. Belobradova, I very much like your posts, your social work and so on, but I believe that this is another violation of any principles and parliamentary practices since the beginning of democracy. I apologize very much, however, for the burden of the Parliamentary Group of Democratic Bulgaria (Democratic Bulgaria) with 16 people to take four committee guides, plus Vice-President of Parliament, plus Chairman of the Internal Commission and Member of the Commission for Control of the Services, is, to put it mildly, a manifestation of bad taste. Dear colleagues, it is true that the change has begun and must surely continue, but you are robbing with a handful of this power. I believe that the percentages you received in elections, such as trusting Bulgarian citizens, do not respond either to your ambitions or to what obviously colleagues in the coalition will support by voting on such a large number of committees. This morning in the discussion I told you, honourable Members of the Conference of Presidents that firstly, I do not see any logic in the number of committees. I apologize without insulting the people involved in culture, but the Committee on Culture consists of 21 members, as is the Committee on Economics, as well as that on regional development, on health, on education and so on. Among other things, we are now starting a dispute over the distribution of leadership positions. I don't know what kind of expertise a large part of the executive positions are available to the people who will occupy them, so that they may be experts. Judging by the nomination for President of the Regional Commission, however, I am not hopeful. In addition, I believe that the members of the Commission, who are broadcast by the parliamentary groups of both the DPS and BSP and GERB, are far more prepared. However, we will not ask for the chair of this committee, although we believe, firstly, that our proposal for a member and vice-president Mrs. Denitsa Sacheva is appropriate for the chair, but we prefer that you bear all the responsibility for everything that will happen in the field of social policy. So, honourable colleagues who continue the change, the responsibility lies when you will be able to control your colleagues from the Socialist Party and their Minister Gokov. Make a proposal for a chairman from your quota, we will support you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u411	Thank you. Are there lines? There are no lines. Mr. Vigenin for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u412	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A valid argument was heard by both the ruling majority and the opposition. I believe that the decision with regard to this committee is not well agreed, it is not agreed in time. I do not think that in this House we should make sudden movements and, on the move, decide things that should be discussed carefully, both within the majority and with the opposition. Therefore, I propose that, on behalf of our parliamentary group, the formation of this committee be postponed, perhaps for tomorrow, and that we continue with the other committees. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u413	I didn't hear you, but I didn't hear you. [[Noise and lines.]] Come, Mr. Ivanov, for an opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u414	Mr. Chairman, I don't have an opinion back. I would like to remind you that there was a vote earlier that today's plenary day will end until this point is exhausted. I don't know what part of the rule book maybe we'll postpone it until tomorrow. Therefore, I suggest you can offer you a break to clarify yourself and make a decision as governors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u415	Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u416	My fellow Members, I would like to propose, on behalf of a group, a break so that we can carefully discuss the situation and be able to make the best and most balanced decision. We don't have any claims.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u417	Mr. Vigenin has the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] After Mr. Vigenin, we'll sort out the rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that in this proposal we can try and give a chance within the framework of the holiday to reach an agreement. Now I withdraw my procedure, but if we still have no solution after the break, then I will do it again, because we must carefully discuss the formation of such an important committee and some others that are coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u419	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. At the request of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, I am announcing an interruption until 15.40 p.m. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u420	Please invite the Quaestors if there are any MPs at the door. Please take your seats. We continue with the nominations for members and the leadership of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u421	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we are calling the nomination of Elisaveta Belobradova as President of the Commission and repeating the proposal for it as Vice-President. We are doing this because I believe that Mrs. Atanasova's arguments do have reason and are correct. We have no doubt that Mrs. Belobradova will do a great job on the substance of the work of this committee and would make a good contribution to the work of the National Assembly, but we must also bear in mind what things look like as a comprehensive balance. In view of this, we are making this change in our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u422	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Stefanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we are withdrawing the application for the vice-presidential seat of Alexandra Korcheva and we are proposing for Chairman Iskren Arabadjiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u424	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Other speeches. I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Before we go to the vote, I will read the proposals for leadership. Chairman: Iskren Arabadzhiev. Vice-Presidents: Denitsa Sacheva, Hasan Ademov, Maya Dimitrova, Elizabeth Belobradova. Please move to vote on the composition and leadership of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Vote 169 MPs: 161, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. A draft decision for the election of the Committee on Education and Science has been deposited. Importer of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. You'll be ordered by the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u425	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 13 and art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Education and Science consists of 21 Members of Parliament, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. Selects the Commission's leadership in composition: President and 4 Vice-Presidents as follows: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u426	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. I am opening a discussion on the presented project. There aren't any. Vote. Vote 180 MPs: 180, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Come in for nominations, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" we offer for members Hristo Petrov, Hristo Simeonov, Antonia Dimitrova, Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin, Anton Tonev, Rosen Koshurkov. As Vice-President, we propose Mr. Hristo Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u428	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We propose as members of the Committee on Education Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Petar Nikolov, Mikhail Iliev, Kostadin Angelov and Denitsa Sacheva, such as Krasimir Valchev we propose as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u430	Thank you. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose as members of the Committee on Education and Science the Members of the National Assembly: Mukaddes Nalbant, Mumun Mummyun and Petar Chobanov, by proposing Professor Petar Chobanov as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u432	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u433	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Bulgarian BSP we offer Veska Nencheva as a member and for Chairman Irena Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u434	Thank you. There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We offer the following applications for the Committee on Education and Science: Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov Vice-President, and member of the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u436	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u437	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose as Commissioner Elisaveta Belobradova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u438	Thank you. On behalf of rebirth.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the ARRANGEMENT, we propose as Commissioner Dr. Kostadin Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u440	Thank you. I'm opening the discussion on the proposed nominations. There aren't any. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 184 MPs: 182 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The draft decision on the election of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports has been deposited. Importers The Parliamentary Group is continuing The Change. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you go, Mrs. Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u441	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 14, art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports consists of 17 MPs, of which: 5 from the Parliamentary Group of "We Continue the Change," 4 from the Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDSS, 2 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u442	Thank you, Mrs. Stefanova. I open discussions on the presented Project. There aren't any. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 185 MPs: for 185, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we propose as Commissioners Inna Ivanova, Miroslav Ivanov, Yordan Terziyski, Petar Kulenski, Georgi Gkozdeykov and as Vice-President we propose Inna Ivanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u444	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS "Welcome, Mrs. Atanasova."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS we propose Krasen Kralev, Stefan Apostolov, Ivan Chervenkov and Iliana Zhekova for the Commission and Krasen Kralev for Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u446	Thank you. Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u447	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is proposing as members of the Commission the MPs Sevim Ali and Sezgin Mehmed, as the President of the Youth Organization of the DPS Mr. Sezgin Mehmed is proposing as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u448	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u449	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria we propose as members of the Commission the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Ivan Petkov and for Chairman Ivan Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u450	Thank you. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u451	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the political party parliamentary group There is such a people for members of the Commission for Youth and Sports we offer Alexander Velislavov Todorov and Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u452	Thank you. From "Democratic Bulgaria." Welcome, Mrs. Belobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we offer as a member Mr. Vasil Zashkev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u454	Thank you. And the parliamentary group of a party of rebirth?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u455	On behalf of the ARRANGEMENT, we propose Tsveta Galunova as a member and vice-president. Here I want to make the following clarification. This morning we learned that in the talks held last night in the ruling majority, it was decided that this Committee on Youth Activities and Sports should be granted to a leadership AGENCY. We have a worthy representative - Tsveta Galunova, who is a European chess champion, 26 years old, a coach and a person who is extremely well represented in these circles, familiar. But we believe that in this situation, we should have approached in the same way as when the vice-presidential seats were defined, where we had a normal conversation this morning, in which the positions of all the political forces represented here were agreed, and we were able to reach a conversation which, I believe, satisfied absolutely everyone, of course, as far as possible in the course of a political, mutually acceptable compromise. However, this did not happen in relation to the chair seats. It's not right for someone else to decide for us, it's not right for someone else to let us know at the last minute. That is why we propose Tsveta Galunova as Vice-President and not as Chairman, but we will take advantage of our right to propose another chair of another committee, which we believe we have an expert far more appropriate than the one to be proposed, and we will insist on such a careful discussion of the selection that has been made, because ultimately, decisions should be made here in the Chamber, or at least those who comment in advance to be consulted with everyone and not by some alone. Because this brings back parliamentary practice from 7 months ago, when it ruled us for 12 years GERB. Thank you. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u456	Thanks for the nominations. Discussions have generally begun. Statements? Mr. Dilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u457	Thank you, Honourable Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, there is some inconvenience in this when, in practice on the agenda, we need to comment on proposals for personalities for Commissioners, to make a statement, which I will do now, because ordinary people comment on personalities, and those who strive to be wiser comment on ideas. We have tried several times to understand what is the idea on which these committees are being constructed. We asked you a question very directly: what principles, how did you define them, why did you decide that? So far, there is no response in this House, and I am turning to our parliamentary group with a request, if it is accidentally so heard that we will also be offered the chairmanship of a committee, and not just any one, but of the creeds, this is a very important committee, we will from now on refuse this post. In this way, we will achieve a few things. First of all, we're going to give you the opportunity not to take a new interruption in which to............................................................................... the way you make these decisions................ We'll give you enough time to think about it. I believe that it is not serious for the second largest parliamentary group to have only one committee, given that in the darkest times of GERB the opposition had 6 [[(Exhilaration, laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from GERB-SDS: It is true. It is true!]] How much? How much?! How much, Mr. Simov? How much did she have?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u458	And only two for vice-presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u459	Just you! There were other parliamentary groups. Let's not get into dialogue. Your principle is clear, you understand. It is clear: there is a ruling majority. It's clear you're not getting enough seats. I will not for a reason recall my speech, in which I called on you to divide the Commission into the transport of the Arrival Commission and the Departure Commission, then you would have two more presidential seats. You won't get enough seats. So, here's another committee that you can have. I will only make a personal request and perhaps Mr. Cholakov will support me, and more people in this House... this committee is extremely important. The new ruling majority started with a neglect of the topic of religious rights and freedoms in Bulgaria. Be responsible for what you will propose as chairman, because this is one of the few capital that Bulgaria can boast of in its centuries-old, millennial history, namely the veritable tolerance and balance. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u460	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. No lines, no other speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the proposed nominations for members and leadership of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. [[Heckling]] Ivan Chenchev is the proposal for Chairman, yes. Vote 187 MPs: 180 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The draft decision on the election of the Committee on Health has been deposited. Importer is the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u461	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to offer your attention: Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Article 15 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Health consists of 21 MPs, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. Selects the Commission's leadership in the composition of President and 4 Vice-Presidents as follows: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u462	Thank you, Mr. Kletchkov. I am opening the discussion on the presented project. We are closing the discussion on the presented project. Please vote on the Project. Voted 182 MPs: 181, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" we propose as members of the Commission Anton Tonev, Yordanka Kostadinova, Milko Penev, Galina Georgieva, Stoil Stoilov, Stoyu Stoiev. As President of the Commission, we propose Anton Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u464	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u465	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As members of the Committee on Health, we offer Kostadin Angelov, Asen Baltov, Lachezar Ivanov, Krasimir Sabev and Valeri Lachovski, and Kostadin Angelov we also propose as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u466	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u467	Thank you. Our proposals for Commissioners are Yuseyin Weyselov, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, as associate professor Dr. Chakarov, we propose as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u468	From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u469	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I propose Professor Georgi Mihailov as Vice-President of the Commission and Ilian Yonchev as Commissioner.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u470	Thank you. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u471	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! From the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" we propose the following members for the Committee on Health: Ivaylo Hristov Hristov and Silvi Kirilov Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u472	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose as a member and Vice-President of the Commission Dr. Alexander Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u474	Thank you. And on behalf of rebirth? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u475	We're offering attorney Elena Guncheva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u476	Thanks for the nominations. I'm opening a discussion on nominations. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u477	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I guess we'll have to go back to the matter of principles. After several of the parliamentary groups, rather the three parliamentary groups who are in opposition, on the basis of principle, gave up their presidential seats, which you gave as a donation this morning, without any prior talks, I now notice here another thing which already violates the principles of the governing coalition itself. As far as we have heard from all the speeches so far by the representatives of the coalition, the chairmanship of the committees should not be from the same political group as the minister. As far as I am aware, the proposed President is from the same parliamentary group as the Minister of Health. Apparently, your principles apply only to one moment. You're giving up pretty quickly. And the screams: it's not my job to, most likely, the distribution of the pie is your business. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u478	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm calling off the debate. We're going to vote on the nominations. Vote 184 MPs: 173, against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The draft decision on the election of the Committee on Environment and Water is deposited. Importer is the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u479	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on the Environment and Water The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 16 and art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on the Environment and Water consists of 23 MPs, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. Selects the Commission's leadership in the composition of President and 4 Vice-Presidents as follows: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u480	Thank you. I am opening a discussion on the presented project. We are closing the discussion on the presented project. We're going to vote on the Project. Vote 171 MPs: for 170, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u481	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we propose as members of the Commission Tatyana Sultanova-Siveva, Vladimir Tabutov, Miroslava Petrova, Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin, Alexander Dunchev, Alexander Rakshiev, and as vice-president we propose Tatyana Sultanova-Siveva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u482	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u483	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As members of the Commission we propose Mladen Shishkov, Stefan Shilev, Evgenia Alexieva, Slavena Tocheva, Desislava Taneva and Nikolay Nankov. We propose Mr. Mladen Shishkov as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u484	Thank you. On behalf of the DPS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we are proposing as members Jevdet Chakarov, Fatme Ramadan and Ercan Ebatin, whom we also propose as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u486	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u487	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we are proposing the MPs Manol Genov, Yavor Bojankov and Emil Georgiev as President of the Commission Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u488	Thank you. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the political party parliamentary group There is such a people for the Committee on Environment and Water we offer the following members: Ivo Georgiev Atanasov and Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski, and Ivo Atanasov we propose him as vice president.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u490	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose Zornitsa Stratieva as a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u492	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u493	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection we propose Ivo Ruschev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u494	Thank you. I open the discussion on the nominations presented. There aren't any. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 180 MPs: for 176, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The draft decision on the election of the Committee on Transport and Communications has been deposited. Importer is the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u495	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Transport and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 16 and art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Transport and Communications consists of 21 Members of Parliament, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. Selects the Commission's leadership in the composition of President and 4 Vice-Presidents as follows: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u496	Thank you, Mr. Nenov. I open discussions on the presented project. There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 175 MPs: for 174, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u497	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As members of the Transport Commission we offer Georgi Gozdeykov, Blagovest Belev, Kalin Ivanov, Stoyan Georgiev, Borislav Antonov, Nastimir Ananiev. For Vice-President, we propose Georgi Gkozdeykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u498	Thank you. On behalf of the GERB-SDS parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u499	Thank you. We offer as members of the Committee on Transport and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov, Kostadin Stoykov, Petya Avramova, Krasen Krastev and Stefan Mirev. As Vice-President, we propose Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u500	Thank you. On behalf of the DPS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u501	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose the following MPs as Commissioners: Pavlin Krastev, Sezgin Mehmed and Halil Letifov, as MP Halil Letifov we propose to be Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u502	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria we offer the MPs Borislav Gutsanov and Georgi Svilenski, as President of the Commission we propose Borislav Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u504	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" for the Committee on Transport and Communications we offer Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova Vice-President, and Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u506	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u507	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Martin Dimitrov is proposed on behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" as a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u508	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u509	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection we offer Nikola Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u510	Thank you. I am opening a discussion on the nominations presented. There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 169 MPs: 166, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. A draft decision on the election of the Commission on Electronic Governance and Information Technologies has been deposited. Importers.. Victoria Vassileva and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, to present the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u511	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Electronic Governance and Information Technologies The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 16 and art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Electronic Governance and Information Technology consists of 21 Members of Parliament, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. Selects the Commission's leadership in the composition of President and 4 Vice-Presidents as follows: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u512	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. I'm opening a discussion on the draft decision. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. We're closing the discussion. Please, vote procedure. Vote 164 MPs: 162, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I'm asking for the name-calling staff now. First of all, are we continuing the Change?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we propose for Commissioners Stoil Stoilov, Georgi Stamov, Yordan Madjunkov, Atanas Mihnev, Alexandra Milcheva, Mladen Zaprianov. As Vice-President, we propose Mr. Stoil Stoilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u514	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Mrs. Atanasova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u515	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Commissioners we propose Mikhail Iliev, Rosen Zhelyazkov, Pavel Hristov, Ivan Totev and Dimitar Ivanov. As Vice-President of the Commission, we propose Mikhail Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u516	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we offer Dobrin Krastev, Alexander Nestorov, Mumyun Mumyun as Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u518	Thank you, Ramadan Hanım. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u519	Dear Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria we offer the MPs Blagovest Kirilov and Ivan Ganchev, as Vice-President we offer Blagovest Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u520	Thank you, Mrs. Emilova. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u521	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "Imam such a people" we offer the following MPs for the Commission on Electronic Governance and Information Technology: Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski member, and Kiril Sashev Simeonov Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u522	From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u523	Thank you. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose Petar Marinov as a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u524	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Resurrection, I propose Nikola Dimitrov as a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u526	Thank you, dear Mr. Taslakov. With this are proposed names for members and leadership. Are there any statements on the staff? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. I request a vote on the Commission's staff. Vote 167 MPs: 165 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to the next committee. A draft decision for the election of the Committee on Culture and Media has been put in place. Importers.. Victoria Vassileva and a group of MPs. I'd like the importers to present it. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u527	Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 19, art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Culture and Media consists of 21 Members of Parliament, of which: 6 from the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDSS, 5 from the Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDSS, 3 from the Parliamentary Group of the DPS, 2 from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u528	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. I'm opening a discussion on the Project. There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm shutting down and we're going to vote on the draft decision. Vote 169 MPs: for 169, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I'm asking for the name-calling staff now. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov, from "We're continuing the Change."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we propose as members of the Committee on Culture and Media Gergana Daneva, Petar Milanov, Marin Shishev, Hristo Petrov, Antonia Dimitrova, Miroslava Petrova. As Vice-President, we propose Mrs. Gergana Daneva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u530	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Mr. Nenkov on behalf of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u531	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of GERB-SDZ our proposals are: Thomas Bikov for Vice-President, Lyuben Dilov, Petar Nikolov, Slavena Tocheva and Dimitar Nikolov for Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u532	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. From the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u533	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As members of the Committee on Culture and Media, Mrs Mukaddes Nalbant and Mrs Yussain Weyselov and Erjan Ebatin are proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u534	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u535	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria I propose Ivan Chenchev as Commissioner and Alexander Simov as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u536	Thank you, dear Mr. Ganchev. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u537	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the people there are the following proposals for the Committee on Culture and Media: Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov, Chairman, Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva, Member.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u538	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose Stoyan Mihalev and Antoaneta Tsoneva as members, such as Stoyan Mihalev as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u540	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u541	On behalf of the Parliamentary Relation Group, we propose as Commissioner Tsveta Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u542	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. I'm opening the discussion on the staff. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u543	Thank you, Honourable Mr. Chairman. I am making this statement with the agreement that we do not discuss personalities, discuss ideas and principles. A moment ago Mr. Svilensky went to explain to us what was the principle under which BSP took both the Ministry of Health and the Commission, but you stopped him and he couldn't explain it to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u544	BSP's on. We're continuing the Change?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u545	Yeah. But I, you know, remind him of a quote from Marx, only not from Karl Marx, but from Groucho Marx. These are my principles, if you do not like them, I have other principles. My speech is entirely personal. Please, Mr. Chairman, don't let my name be voted on as a member of this committee. I would find a place in it with this Presidency if it were a Kensell Culture Committee, but it is a Culture Commission, and I think I will not be able to be fulfilled in it with this Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u546	Thank you, dear Mr. Dilov. Do GERB-SDS wish to submit another application? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u547	Our suggestion is that Mr. Lyuben Dilov should be Stefan Shilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u548	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Any other comments on the personnel staff, replacements? I won't. We're closing the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 164 MPs: 152, against 4, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next draft decision on the election of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. Importers.. Victoria Vassileva and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u549	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 20, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Commission for the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society consists of 17 MPs, of which: 5 from the parliamentary group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u550	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. I'm opening a discussion on the solution project. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the discussion. Please, vote procedure. Vote 168 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please now name-calling. We are continuing to change, Mr. Stefanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u551	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the European Parliament We continue the Change I propose for Commissioners: Julia Ivanova, Yordanka Kostadinova, Ventislava Lyubenova and Milko Penev. As Vice-President of the Commission, we propose Mrs Julia Ivanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u552	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. From GERB-SDS? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u553	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Commissioners we propose: Dani Canazireva, Branimir Balachev, Kostadin Stoykov and Ivan Chervenkov. As Vice-President of the Commission, we propose Danny Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u554	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Will the DPS be proposing members of this committee? Do you want to wait? Here you are, Mrs. Dimitrova, to present the proposals of the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u555	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria I propose as members of the Commission the MPs: Boyko Klechkov and Irena Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u556	Thank you. Let's also hear the proposals of "There is such a people." Here you go, Mrs. Trajanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of "There is such a people" we propose the following MPs for the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society: Alexander Velislavov Todorov as a member and Stanislav Svetosaurov Balabanov as Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u558	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sorry to keep you waiting. The proposal by the DPS for the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society is for Hayri Sadakov and Ihsan Hakke.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u560	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u561	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose, on behalf of "Democratic Bulgaria" as a member of the committee Dr. Alexander Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u562	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. From rebirth? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u563	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of a party, we propose as Commissioner Iskra Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u564	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. By personnel? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the nominations I have made a mistake and therefore I ask you to put to the vote the proposal for Danny Kanazireva as Vice-President, Branimir Balachev and Kostadin Stoykov as members. The final nomination for the fourth term will be presented later.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u566	It's okay. We'll complete it in the next session. Okay. In addition, are there any other statements on the staff? I can't see. Please let us vote with the clarification made that GERB-SDS will present an additional nomination in one of the next meetings. Vote 179 MPs: for 176, not against, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next draft decision on the election of the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens. Importers are the MP Andrey Gurov and Rena Stefanova. Here you go, Mrs. Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u567	Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 21, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens consists of 17 Members of Parliament, of which: 5 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u568	Thank you, Mrs. Stefanova. I'm opening the discussion on the draft decision. I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the discussion. Please vote on the project so submitted. Vote 179 MPs: for 178, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to personnel. Mr. Stefanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of "We continue the Change" I propose for members Plamen Shalufov, Mladen Zaprianov, Andrey Gurov, Ilin Dimitrov, Yordan Madjunkov and as vice-president I propose Plamen Shalafov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u570	Thank you. From GERB-SDS? Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u571	We propose as Commissioners: Radomir Cholakov, Gunaj Heusmen, Krasimir Sabev and Mrs Evgenia Alexieva. We propose Radomir Cholakov as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u572	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. From the DPS? Here you go, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u573	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose as members Hayri Sadakov and Jayhan Ibryamov. We propose Mr. Ibryamov as Vice President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u574	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Mr. Stefanov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u575	Sorry, I made a mistake. I declare again the candidates as members on behalf of the "We continue the Change": Vassil Stefanov, Petar Milanov, Petar Kyosev, Ekaterina Dimitrusheva. For the vice-presidential seat our proposal is Vasil Stefanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u576	You mean you're the man? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u578	From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Emilova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u579	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria we propose Ivan Petkov as Vice-President of the Commission and member Ivan Ganchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u580	Thank you, Mrs. Emilova. There is such a people? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u581	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the parliamentary group of "Imam such a people" we propose Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov as Chairman and Ivan Rumenov Klisurski as a member.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u582	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u583	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Zarko Marinov, on behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, I propose as a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u584	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. For rebirth? Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u585	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party, I propose Angel Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u586	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. I'm opening a discussion on the staff. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u587	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, for two committees, I became JULDash the Social Policy and Religions which the majority mercifully defined as two of the opposition parliamentary groups. Does it strike you that justice lies in the Commission's idea of social policy and that the Commission's idea of religion lies in tolerance and respect? Obviously, in plenary, justice is understood so that the majority takes everything, and tolerance and respect do not understand at all. The Commission on Religions is this committee, colleagues, who must keep religious peace, which means that in its work tolerance and respect are Conditio sine qua non there are no political debates. There, God forbid, there are no debates about theological, dogmatic, and at all religious problems. This is a Commission that, again I say, must keep the peace and must be a model of tolerance and respect between its members. I wish this committee good luck! How she and her members will respect each other's tolerance and respect depends greatly on our country. I hope that the spirit of this committee will be transferred sooner or later to plenary! I hope you understand what tolerance and respect means! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u588	Thank you, dear Mr. Cholakov. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mrs. Belobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u589	Sorry, guys. On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, we are withdrawing our member Zarko Marinov and will subsequently give a name for the Commission. Again, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u590	Okay. Here we will make the clarification that an additional "Democratic Bulgaria" at one of the next meetings will complement the composition with a representative from their parliamentary group. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We close the discussion and move on to the vote of the staff. Vote 175 MPs: 169 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are moving on to the draft decision for the election of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians outside the country. Please provide the importers with the Project. Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Outside the Country The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 22, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Policies for Bulgarians outside the country consists of 17 MPs, of which: 5 from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDS, 4 from the Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDSS, 2 from the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group. 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u592	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. I open the discussion on the proposed draft decision. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. We're closing the discussion. Please vote. Vote 169 MPs: for 169, against and abstention there is no. We're moving on to personnel. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u593	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are continuing the Change for Members: Plamen Shalafov, Mladen Zaprianov, Andrey Gurov, Ilin Dimitrov, Yordan Madunkov, as Vice-President we are proposing Mr. Plamen Shalufov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u594	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u595	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Commissioners we propose: Ilter Bayzatov, Lachezar Ivanov, Maria Belova, Denitsa Nikolova, as Ilter Beizatov we propose as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u596	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. From the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the parliamentary group of "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" we propose as Commissioners Ahmed Ahmed and Bajram Bajram, and our proposal as Vice-President is to elect Bajram Bajram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u598	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. "BSP for Bulgaria." "Come in, Mrs. Emilova."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u599	Dear Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we propose as Commissioners Momchil Nenov and Aleksandar Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u600	Thank you, Mrs. Emilova. There's such a people. Come on in, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u601	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is such a people for the Committee for Bulgarians outside the country we offer Tanner Kadir Turkoglu and Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u602	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Mrs. Belobradova, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u603	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose Antoaneta Tsoneva as a member and President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u604	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. And rebirth?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u605	Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the Resurrection we raise Dr. Kostadin Kostadinov's candidacy not only for a member, but also for a chairman. Why? I am of the opinion that today we have chosen a large number of committee chairmen to really be professionals in their field, good managers and probably good managers. Of course, some of the chairmen have caused laughter in this House, but that is what the majority has decided. Why does Resurrection raise Dr. Kostadin Kostadinov? Here it is important to highlight something extremely important. " Bulgaria borders on countries where there is a indigenous Bulgarian population. When you start that there are Muslims who live in Turkey, but by birth and home country are Bulgarians, as you go through Greece, go through Macedonia, go through Serbia, get to Romania, there are Bulgarians everywhere who are defined as such, no matter what their faith is. The Bulgarians who have evacuated from Bulgaria or known as emigrants are not the only ones. It is time and I do not think that there is someone more prepared in this Chamber on this subject, who graduated from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and took PhDs in ethnography, which could make sure that Bulgarians living outside the borders of our present homeland are presented in both the Commission and Parliament when there are decisions to be taken. That is precisely why, and especially in relation to what was discussed, that morning at nine minutes to one minute the opposition was given a decision by the majority to which committee what would be given was bad practice. The really good practice was a few hours later when the majority of the quadruple coalition sat down and in dialogue who made concessions in one committee, who in another, reached solutions with which the vice-presidential seats were achieved by consensus. After all, we are MPs not only of the region from which we are elected, but of every Bulgarian in our country. I therefore call on the coalition, which will govern us and is a majority in Parliament, to exercise common sense and to elect a chairman of this committee, which has nothing to do with political struggles here or with severe decisions relating to finances. This is a sign to Bulgarians who live outside Bulgaria. This is a sign to these people to show them that the head of this committee sits a man who, by education, has a specialty related to them, knows their problems, tours them and knows where they are. He has published books, there are scientific works in this particular direction for these Bulgarians, and does not accept that these are just evacuated people and we should give them publicity only because they live in London or anywhere else outside Bulgaria. That's why the ARC was nominated by Dr. Kostadinov. [[Private applause from AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u606	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Just to clarify, you are both nominateing him as a Member and President of the Commission, right? I mean, if it wasn't for the President, he would still be a member of the Commission? Okay. I open the discussion on the proposals that have been made. Then we'll sort out the procedure. Are there any speeches? [[Reply from the National Representative Nikola Drenchev.]] First Mr. Tsonev, then you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Firstly, the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group will support this nomination and this nomination. I would like to say to the President on behalf of our group that you share this opinion, here in this Chamber we have already seen people who want to speak on behalf of the Bulgarians, on behalf of the Bulgarians abroad and on behalf of a group of Bulgarian citizens. Remember, this is the duty of all of us. No one can claim the right to speak on behalf of a group of Bulgarians, designated Bulgarian citizens or to speak only on a specific topic. I'm saying this because in front of folk meetings, we looked at formations, self-determining with a nationalist profile that they thought was their territory. No, this is the territory of all of us. We should all work for the Bulgarian citizens, for those who are in Bulgaria and for those who are abroad with this agreement. This isn't anyone's reserved territory! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u608	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u609	It's after 5:00 p.m. I've been sitting here all day looking and wondering what exactly the opposition is doing in the National Assembly. Because any proposal, however reasonable, however appropriate, meets fierce opposition from the government, who, as one they have in mind, whatever they have decided in the cabinet or before, where they make decisions, do without consideration all reasonable arguments. I would very much like at least the last one, which is obviously an extremely sensible proposal, because Dr. Kostadinov is an extremely competent person who has traveled all over the land, both close and distant, and those who border Bulgaria and the Balkan Peninsula. He was with the Bulgarians there, he was also in the distant communities. There are books on it, there are movies on it. A book of his is the most read book in Bulgarian communities abroad. So Dr. Kostadinov's candidacy is unparalleled with no other candidate, and that's good. If there are arguments to the contrary, let's hear them. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's hear reasonable arguments instead of doodles on the back of the room. Because what you're doing is ridiculous and pathetic. At all, this whole democratic process you're minimizing it right now. This morning you mined the opportunity to review the electoral process, to take into account the mistakes that have been made and the way to correct them so that we could really have a democratically elected National Assembly and, respectively, along the chain of elected Council of Ministers, and so on, the entire government. There is no reason to wonder if you do not now accept this proposal, too, that people really do not trust the National Assembly and do not believe the democratic process. But these will not be the opposition people who are expressing their doubts, but the people of the ruling quadruple coalition who are minimizing any reasonable dialogue. Think before you vote! Thank you. [[Private applause from AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u610	Thank you, dear Mr. Drenchev. Is there any line to that statement? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u611	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I address Mrs. Tsoneva and the group of the Democratic Bulgaria. I would like to ask you: How would you convince us that your application is more suitable than that of Dr. Kostadin Kostadinov, namely, do you have more scientific work related to Bulgarians abroad than he does? Do you have more publications on these issues? Do you have more contacts with Bulgarians abroad? How many times have you been to the Western outskirts, in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Albania, Belomorie, Turkey, Romania, Moldova, Ukraine and so on at a meeting with the Bulgarian communities there? How many movies do you have on this? How many books do you have published related to the Bulgarian communities abroad? Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov has dozens of such works. There is a Guide to the 100 cultural and historical sites "Bulgarian heritage" outside Bulgaria. Can you list 100 such sites outside Bulgaria, outside the limits of today's Republic of Bulgaria? Also, how many contacts do you have with how many Bulgarian organizations outside the country? I ask you to motivate yourselves and convince us all as MPs that we should vote for you and that your candidacy in this case is more appropriate. If you fail to do so, I am simply asking you to withdraw your proposed application, because it is obvious that Dr. Kostadinov is more prepared and more competent in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u612	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there any line to that statement? I can't see. Other speeches please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u613	Dear Mr. President, I am using as a statement to respond to my fellow Member from the ARRANGEMENT. A few things: The fact is that some of the criticisms of the process under which the committees were built have their reasons. I hope that we will find a way in the subsequent work of the National Assembly to find a better model of dialogue and a better balance this first. Secondly, specifically on the proposal that stands before us. I am glad that there is competition on this particular policy, there is a choice, because this policy is extremely important. It cannot be reduced only to the traditional Bulgarian communities outside the borders of Bulgaria, which are here in the region, nor can it, of course, be quite right, that the colleagues from the ARCHER should be reduced only to the so-called new emigration, the diaspora, which has been formed in recent decades scattered around the world. By stating our claim by "Democratic Bulgaria" for the Presidency of this Commission, we are stepping on the fact that not only one person is our nomination, although this applies to Mrs Tsoneva, but as a political community we have worked very consistently for this issue of the rights of Bulgarians abroad, regardless of their origin, regardless of how they have proved to be a central element of all the policies Bulgaria applies, of all the legislation. To note that Bulgaria lives under conditions of a very large diaspora, which should be considered as national capital. We have a huge history of fighting for electoral rights, the possibility of political participation, to help Bulgarians abroad in terms of their educational and cultural initiatives. In this sense, without denying the achievements of anyone else, we claim that we have something to step on in our proposal, and it is serious. From this point of view, I am pleased that there will be an opportunity for MPs to choose between two really serious alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u614	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u615	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I do not agree with you, as I would remind you that you are part of the ruling coalition, you signed a coalition agreement, but even when the government was voted, the question was asked: why is there no Ministry of Bulgarians abroad? All of you in the democratic community are declared as a kind of advocate of their interests, advocates of the interests of the Bulgarians abroad, but specifically in the coalition agreement I believe that no measures are foreseen, no measures will be implemented by the executive, including the fact that there is no Ministry of Bulgarians abroad. In addition, in relation to the so proposed applications, I could not hear from you a good talk about competition between two applications, but I did not hear, however, the fact that your proposed application is the result of a political agreement that was launched by opposition parties at 9:00 this morning, what other qualities and what other merit your proposed candidacy has, besides the chairmanship of the same committee, again a fruit of political agreements in the past National Assembly. If you would please explain to us, as my colleague from the age said, why Mrs. Tsoneva's candidacy, with all due respect to her, is more appropriate than Dr. Kostadinov's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u616	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u617	The topic of whether there should be a Ministry of Bulgarians abroad is certainly worth discussing, but it has nothing to do with the Presidency and the composition of this committee, you will agree. We believe that this is about the so-called horizontal policy, which should actually find an adequate place in all ministries and in their policies. From this point of view, we would rather not support this proposal, but it has its reasons and we would discuss it. That's the first argument you've made. However, I would like to say that this is not a political agreement. In the past, the National Assembly had a debate on the importance of this policy However, I am pleased that, together with my colleagues, there is such a people and other colleagues, we have come to the conclusion that the Commission must be preserved precisely because of its enormous strategic importance. In the two previous national meetings, which were short-lived and perhaps in many ways called fruitless, one of the things that we managed to do together, again I say, with colleagues from "There is such a people" was some very important steps regarding the electoral rights of Bulgarians abroad, which is very important to give them the opportunity to use them to defend their own interests rather than to rely on someone to lawyer them. Specifically Mrs. Tsoneva has a very long history of fighting for the electoral rights of Bulgarians abroad, regardless of where they are, and anyone interested in this policy could not have missed that fact. In this sense, we believe that there is no doubt exactly in its qualities that it will continue to fight for their rights and interests. And by the way, being part of the majority guarantees that the majority will take this policy seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u618	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? Here you go. While you are coming, let me remind you that this Commission has been established in the 43rd National Assembly on a proposal from the BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u619	The opposition, then!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u620	That's right. Yeah, that's right. Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u621	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A few times a question has been asked from this tribune, to which we have not received an answer. Mr. Ivanov, the word is "diaspora." I call on all those who remain in this Chamber at this apparently late hour, as I see quite empty chairs, to give this new parliament a good move. Today we have commented several times on what mistakes have been made so far. I think we've made that clear. I think there are enough young, new people here who want, as you say, change. Change goes through being objective. I think that a debate on the specific issue of these two applications will not be made clear after several attempts on our part. Therefore, I urge you to turn to your own conscience and with a conscience to these compatriots, for whatever reason, who are outside the borders of Bulgaria at this time, to think about them, to think about who and how would protect their interests from now on. I think the answer is clear to all of us and it is not subject to comment. I urge you to vote on your conscience. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u622	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u623	Dear Mr. Chairman! Hristo Ivanov mentioned the words "horizontal policies." This was a nice statement because horizontal policies are aimed at people and are contrary to the usual policy from the top down. We at AGE understand horizontal policies regarding Bulgarians abroad, related to acquaintance with their problems. Because what struck me, unfortunately, once again fulfilled my expectations, because the reason we actually have a candidacy in this direction is that we are worried with reason that the attention of this Commission will be concentrated only on our migrant communities, who deserve such attention, of course, deserve all the support that the state can give them, but we have not heard a word about the traditional Bulgarian communities that live in the old Bulgarian lands. Two and a half million are Bulgarians on the Balkan Peninsula and those who live in the territory of the former Soviet Union, and so many Bulgarians with Bulgarian citizenship who live outside Bulgaria after 1989. Immigrants. We heard nothing about the Bulgarian community in Turkey. We have heard nothing about the people who still speak in Bulgarian in Eastern Thrace "a third of the population is Bulgarian to this day. The old Bulgarian cities of Lozengrad, Malak Samokov, Midia, Mali City and to this day have a population that has a Bulgarian mother tongue. Yes, they have another religion, they are Muslims, but that does not make them less Bulgarians than us. The same thing is true for Bulgarians who live in Xanthian Pomaks, who speak to this day in Bulgarian. Until now, there has been no Bulgarian official. There is Turkish state propaganda, a Bulgarian state institution is not interested in them. The same thing applies to the huge Bulgarian minority in Belomorski Macedonia There is a territory that the Greeks themselves call... [[Greek]] or the Bulgarian Triangle between Voden, Lerin and Kostor. Today, of course, these cities bear other names, but their population is still Bulgarian. There Bulgarian representatives have not officially set foot. Macedonia doesn't even make sense to talk about it. In Albania, we already have an officially recognised Bulgarian minority. No attention to the only Bulgarian municipality with 99.99 per cent Bulgarian population of Pustets Municipality, Mala Prespa. No attention to the Bulgarians in Pomoravito, where to this day people live, who, when they understand that you are from Bulgaria, say to you: "We want to lecture you in Serbian or want to compose you in bugarski?" No attention to the Bulgarians in Romania. There is one of the biggest Bulgarian cities there, it is called Targovishte, by the way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u624	Please extend the time of rebirth so that Mr. Kostadinov can complete his speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u625	Yes, thank you. There is no official state position so far. This is a legacy of communism, by the way, when we had declared complete denial of even simple care for the cultural rights of the Bulgarians there. For thirty years Bulgaria has been painfully returning to the Balkan Peninsula and is still ashamed to say that there are Bulgarians here and there. It is therefore easier to talk about Bulgarians abroad as immigrants, but not as a indigenous population of the territories around us. After all, we are already in the European Union, two of our neighbouring countries are also inside, and we have not even thought about the Bulgarian population in them. This is precisely why we from the age of Bulgaria want to have our representation in this committee, because we believe that we will be able to balance the state policies in the direction of being so that there is as much attention for the Bulgarian immigrant communities, which, I repeat, deserve the full attention of the state, so that we do not achieve assimilation within a generation and the Bulgarians, although they are from Bulgarian marriages, forget the Bulgarian ones, the same attention to be directed to the Bulgarians in the traditional old Bulgarian lands around us. Because wherever you cross the border around Bulgaria, on the other side of the border also speak in Bulgarian. I didn't hear any of that from the other candidate for chairman of this committee. Naturally, each group has the right to propose, each group has the right to motivate it, but we see that there is only one right here. I didn't hear a suggestion for motivation. A good thing are horizontal policies, but they must be filled with content and content accumulates in the years behind. This committee is one of the new ones and it is good that the 43rd National Assembly then constituted it, but only a committee without content existing to formalise in some way some balance within parliament is simply pointless. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u626	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? For a line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u627	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kostadinov! I have no experience of participating in any committee until now, but I believe that even as a member or vice-president, anyone can contribute to the development of a committee. So let us vote and whoever is elected President, to lead the Commission in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u628	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Is there another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u629	I guess we can't work this out. This isn't about who's gonna be where. It's a principle issue, we talk about policies all the time. I've been in these parts years before I even thought I'd be in parliament someday as a MP. Whether I am or not a MP, whether I'm even on this committee or not, I'll still be there. The bad thing is that one thing is to go as an ordinary Bulgarian citizen, another is to go as a representative of an institution. And in fact, here the goal is precisely this: to engage the institution in which we are currently, the supreme legislative authority in our country, because Bulgarians abroad do not expect miracles from us. To begin with, they expect a simple respect and knowledge of their problems. They just expect to know that across the street knows what's bothering them. Because they have already been taught, unfortunately, after 1944 no one should pay attention to them even on the contrary, the state should betray them because there are thousands of cases. From this point of view, we comment on this issue because whoever is in charge of this committee must be ready to be there, to know these places, to visit them, because respect is the most important thing in this case. Because I have witnessed how these people cry when they see the Bulgarian flag. When you talk to people who have been in prison because they have declared themselves Bulgarians, you remain silent because you cannot spit your own country abroad. Abroad Bulgaria is great and so should we always, when we are there, defend our state policy, however imbecile it is sometimes at times. We just don't have a choice, because otherwise we insult ourselves. But we have to start some, how do I say, the Reconquist. We need to get our cultural space. In order for this to happen, we need our institution to go there. Do you understand? Physically, not waiting for them to come to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u630	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. For a statement, Mr. Yordanov? Here you go. The arguments have become clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u631	Yeah, I'm trying to hold back and get it over with because this has turned too much into politics. The problem with Bulgarians abroad is that there is no normal person who does not know it. I'm sorry, but you're not the only party that interacts with Bulgarians abroad, only we're not sitting here to remove who has established contacts with whom, who knows what problems, who does what. In this committee you will have the opportunity.. all of us will have the opportunity to really try to start solving the problems of Bulgarians abroad, who are both immigrants and Bulgarians left outside Bulgaria because of our unfortunate historical fate. But the problem is not just one, it is not just the other, and so in this committee there could be a much greater consensus on the subject than in the other committees, and there is no need for this to turn to speeches from shortly after the Renaissance. Each of us has studied history, some of us are professionally involved, but we didn't kill him here at politics. In this committee everyone will be able to work for the Bulgarians abroad and I hope together. Thank you. [[Private applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u632	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Is there any line to that statement? Here's a line. Let me warn you, you only have one minute. It's gotta be short.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u633	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yordanov, I address you specifically to tell you that by listening to your speech, obviously for your participation in two previous Parliaments you have not understood the role of the discussion in Parliament and the debates regarding proposed applications, which are a free right of the Bulgarian MP. I think that's why your results are right now. You should know that when two applications are proposed, we should allow those who have proposed them to indicate why the specific application should be chosen. This is not politics, Mr. Yordanov. This is an absolute right of the members of the Bulgarian Parliament. In this case, when we are talking about the Bulgarians abroad, a topic on which I understand that you have capacity and expertise, I respect that, of course, I would like to tell you that there are other opinions, and we should also comply with them, and they are not in the role of politics, but they are in the role of simple facts which Dr. Kostadinov presented to you, and I hope that all of us in the Chamber will comply with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u634	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. For the doppelganger? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. We close the discussion and move on to the vote. Now I would suggest that we make two votes. The first to be for the composition of the Commission and Vice-Presidents Plamen Shalafov, Ilter Beizatov and Bajram Bajram, because there is no problem and the second vote to be for the President of the Commission. So, please, a procedure for voting on the composition and vice-presidents. Vote 197 MPs: 193, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. By this we can say that both Kostadin Kostadinov and Mrs Antoaneta Tsoneva are already members of this committee. Now we have to decide who will be the chairman. Please, vote procedure. First, for Antoaneta Tsoneva, as it was the first in order of offering by the Democratic Bulgaria. They voted 145 MPs: 110, against 23, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. It seems to me that with this vote we can say that Antoaneta Tsoneva is elected President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u635	Put the second one to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u636	You're also suggesting that we vote for Mr. Kostadinov. I think it's the right thing to see the result. Please vote for Kostadin Kostadinov for President of the Commission. In this case, the logic will be who gets more votes for. The electronic system shall not allow another type of vote. They voted 167 MPs: 63, against 45, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. With this we can say that Mrs. Tsoneva has been elected chairman of this committee and we are moving on to the next committee, to the draft decision on the election of the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. Importers "Sandy Gyurov and Vasil Stefanov. Please, Mr. Stefanov, present the draft decision. It's also the latest committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u637	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the election of the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 23, art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption consists of 17 MPs, of which: 5 from the Parliamentary Group of the 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u638	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Are there any statements on the draft decision? I can't see. We close the discussion and move on to a vote on the draft decision on the election of the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. Vote 160 MPs: 158 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, now personnel. We are continuing the Change. Mr. Stefanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the European Commission, we are proposing for members of the Commission Konstantin Bachiiski, Iskren Arabadzhiev, Michal Kambarev, Dimitar Gochev and Rena Stefanova as President we are proposing Mr. Konstantin Bachiiski. [[(Private applause and applause:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u640	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u641	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As members of the Commission we propose Daniel Mitov, Manoil Manev, Toma Bikov and Anna Alexandrova. We propose as Vice-President of the Commission Daniel Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u642	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. DPS, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u643	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Committee, we propose Ihsan Hakke and Alexander Nestorov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u644	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. "BSP for Bulgaria." Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria we offer for members Maya Dimitrova and Ilian Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u646	Thank you, Mr. Popov. There is such a people. Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is such a people as members of the Commission we propose Georgi Stanchev Georgiev as Vice-President and Andrei Nikolaev Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u648	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. "Democratic Bulgaria." Mrs. Belobradova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivan Dimitrov is Vice-President and Commissioner on behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u650	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. By the time they get to the stand, I must confess without a fight that I had mistakenly voted for Mr. Kostadinov. I didn't mean to. [[Private applause from AGE.]] I'm gonna have to put in a vote correction, but the facts are facts. I both supported you. Here you go, Mrs. Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u651	On behalf of the AGE, we offer Ivo Ruschev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u652	Thank you. I am opening a discussion on the staff and the Commission's leadership. I can't see. We close the discussion and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u653	Please, vote procedure on staff and management.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u654	We want a break from the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u655	Excuse me? Let's end this vote and we will. Well, there's another committee, or you're in the middle of this committee to take a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u656	Yeah. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u657	Is this reaction going to dissuade you, Mr. Yordanov? Let's take the vote and give it a rest. Is it okay or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u658	Now rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u659	Okay, I get it. Now cancel this vote. Either way, we've got some more work to do. We're gonna have to give it a rest. Before the vote on the staff of this committee, I give 15 minutes rest at the request of the group of "There is such a people." At 6:05 p.m., we're back together. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u660	Colleagues, please take your seats. We're continuing the hearing. Mr. Stefanov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u661	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we are continuing the Change, we are withdrawing Konstantin Bachiiski's candidacy and we are proposing Mr. Michal Kambarev as chairman of this committee instead.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u662	Just to clarify, they are both members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u663	That's right, both of them are members of the Commission. However, we are proposing Michal Kambarev as chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u664	You're changing the candidacy for chairman. I think we are at a stage where this is acceptable, so we are now going to vote on the staff and the Commission's leadership with the new candidacy for President Mr. Kambarev. Please, vote procedure. Vote 176 MPs: 160 against 6, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We move on to the latest committee, perhaps symbolically, a draft decision on the election of the Tourism Commission. Importers are Andrey Gurov, Miroslav Ivanov, Vasil Stefanov. Here you are, Mr. Stefanov, to present the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u665	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I present the last committee: Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 24, Art. 18, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Tourism consists of 17 MPs, of which: 5 from the Parliamentary Group of "We Continue the Change"; 4 from the Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDS; 2 from the Parliamentary Group of 2. Elects as members of the Commission:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u666	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. I'm opening a discussion on the draft decision. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're closing the discussion. Please vote on the draft decision so submitted. Vote 186 MPs: 185 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We now move on to the names and leadership. Please, Mr. Stefanov, on behalf of
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u667	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposals for members of the Commission are: Ilin Dimitrov, Snezhana Apostolova, Dimitar Tashev, Georgi Stamov, Bogomil Petkov, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry.We are continuing to propose Ilin Dimitrov and as Vice-President Snezhana Apostolova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u668	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova, I see you're in a good mood.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ, I propose to the Commission Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova, Lyuben Dilov, Dimitar Nikolov and Krasen Kralev as Mrs. Angelkova we propose as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u670	Thank you. From the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u671	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Committee on Rights and Freedoms, I propose the following members: Mrs Neby Kabak and Mr Ramadan Atalay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u672	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u673	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I propose to Vice-President Vyara Emilova and Georgi Svilenski as a member. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u674	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. There is such a people? Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u675	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ivaylo Hristov Hristov and Ivan Rumenov Klisurski are among the members of the Committee on Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u676	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u677	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose Vasil Zashkev as a member of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u678	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. And from rebirth? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u679	On behalf of the ARRANGEMENT, I propose Tsoncho Tomov Ganev as a member and Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u680	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. I'm opening the discussion on composition and leadership. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're closing the discussion. We are going to vote on the name composition and the leadership of the Committee on Tourism. Vote 184 MPs: for 182, against none, abstention 2. The name composition and the management of the Committee on Tourism are hereby approved. For a procedure, Mrs. Atanasova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u681	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, my procedure is to fill out the Commission for the direct participation of citizens. I have a nomination for a fourth member of GERB-SDS parliamentary group. I suggest that this be Mr. Georgi Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-22.u682	However, I propose that we put this vote on today's agenda as a final vote so that we can finish our work. Indeed, when they are ready so on the edge of the Rules, I think we can afford it. I propose that we go back and vote in favour of the proposal made by Mrs Atanasova to complement one Commissioner. Please, vote procedure. Vote 179 MPs: for 178, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. This committee is also complete. That concludes the agenda for today. Next meeting tomorrow, 9.00 p.m. According to the Program, the first item for tomorrow is: Hearing of the Minister of Interior about the received signals in the Ministry of Interior, the actions taken and their results related to the detection of violations in the opening of mobile polling stations for the elections for President and Vice President and for MPs on 14 November 2021. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
