ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to the agenda adopted on Wednesday, Parliamentary control is the only item on the agenda for today. Dear Members of Parliament, I will make two procedural proposals. On the basis of art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional point: Draft decision on cancellation of holidays of the National Assembly under art. 39, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly with importers........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 39, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chambers.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I remind you that there are only two issues in Parliamentary control today. I ask that we vote on this proposal. Vote 206 MPs: 193 against 9, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. My fellow Members, I also propose that after the conclusion of item two for today, which we have introduced as a decision on the vacation after the completion of point two, we continue to examine the draft Rules of Procedure for the organization and activities of the National Assembly. The committee for the preparation of the draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. I ask that we vote on this proposal. Vote 204 MPs: 174 against 19, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Thank you, colleagues. Moving on to: REPRESENTATIVE OF THE CUSTOMER OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Decision No 1047-NS of 15 December 2021 on the announcement of Bogomil Ivanov Petkov as a Member of the National Assembly of the Seventh Election Region of Gabrovo. In a letter, in a letter. Decision of the National Assembly of 15 December 2021 was received by the CEC on 15 December 2021, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Yana Veselinova Balnikova as a MP from the Seventh Election Region of Gabrovo, raised from the list of Coalition In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission has decided: Announcing as a Member of the National Assembly in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly of the Seventh Election Region of Gabrovo, Bogomil Ivanov Petkov from the list of Coalition. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Petkov to the oath room. Mr. Petkov, I'll take the oath, you repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]] Please come in as per procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u3	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the plenary day until the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A reverse opinion? There's no reverse opinion. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Philip Popov to extend the plenary day until the agenda is exhausted and the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly are adopted. Vote 192 MPs: 155, against 31, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We move on to item one of the agenda for today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First of all, honourable Members, I would like to inform you of written answers to questions received for the period from 10 December 2021 to 16 December 2021. 15 written answers were received to questions from the MP Hristo Gadzhev from the ministers: Minister of Service Andrey Zhivkov, Minister of Service Asen Litchev, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Service and Minister Boyko Rashkov, Minister of Service Velislav Minekov, Minister of Service Violeta Komitova, Minister of Service Georgi Panayotov, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Galab Donev, Minister of Service Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Service Svetlan Stoev, Minister of Service Stella Baltova, Minister of Service Hristo Aleksiev, Minister of Service Valery Belchev, Minister of Minister Daniela Vezeva, Minister of Service Stoycho Katsarov and Minister of Service Andrei Kuzmanov. Two written answers to questions from MP Martin Dimitrov from Minister of Service Svetlan Stoev and Minister of Service Valeri Belchev. Written answer to a question by MP Desislava Atanasova from Minister of the Ministry of the Interior Daniela Vezeva. Written answer to a question by the MP Mladen Shishkov from Minister of the Ministry of the Interior Daniela Vezeva. Written answer to a question by the MP Ivaylo Mirchev from Minister of Service Asen Litchev. In today's parliamentary control we have two questions to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova. Asena Serbenova will answer first of all a question from the National Representative Kostadin Georgiev Angelov concerning the issue of permission according to art. 37b of the Law on medical institutions for the authorisation of new medical activities at a new address of the medical institution Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment ..Pierre Curie No. 2. And to a question from the National Representative Asen Georgiev Baltov about the infusion of the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment of Lozenets, at the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Children's Diseases "Prof. Dr. Ivan Mitev. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for lack of respectable reasons of the National Representative Atanas Mihnev his question is postponed to the Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev. On the question received by the National Representative Kostadin Georgiev Angelov, please come in, Mr. Professor, you have two minutes to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u5	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, first of all, congratulations on the awkward post, the heavy position and the hot potato you're dealing with. You certainly have a lot of work ahead of you and a lot of sleepless nights. I assume you know that in the public domain there has been a famous idea of the Minister of Health for a permit to create a new private hospital with over 500 beds on the territory of Sofia. In Sofia under the Health Card there are no free beds, there are no free beds on the different profile specialties and with the creation of such a type of private hospital behind this decision there are serious lobbying interests and the protection not of medical interests but of commercial relations. In this regard, please answer at what stage is the administrative procedure under art. 37b of the Law on medical institutions for the authorisation of new activities at a new address of the medical establishment, branch of the Hospital.St. and Brain.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ..Pierre Curie No. 2. The reason for my question is the words of the previous Minister of Health, who at Parliamentary Control last week said that the documentation is all right, that we should not look under the ox and that everything is absolutely normal and that he should issue the permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u6	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Minister. You have 3 minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Angelov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! According to the intended special order, which was quoted in art. 37b of the Law on Medical Institutions, the assessment of the authorisation of new medical activities of hospital care facilities and complex oncology centres is within the authority of the Minister of Health, by procedure issuing an order authorising or refusing to authorise new medical activities in the relevant medical establishment. The authorisation of new medical activities under the terms of the quoted article shall be carried out on the basis of a comprehensive assessment prepared by the Executive Agency, after an analysis of the criteria laid down in the same law. In the event that the medical institution provides for the financing of the new medical activities to be made by means of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, an opinion on the possibilities for the new activities to be financed by the National Health Insurance Fund is also required under the procedure. By Order No RD-01-807 of 30 September 2021, the Minister of Health is authorised to request new medical activities in the structure of existing and newly revealed clinics at the Hospital of Heart and Brain in the following medical fields: medical oncology, neurosurgery, anesthesiology and intensive treatment, vascular surgery, orthopedics and traumatology, cardiology, pneumology and phthsiatry, obstetrics and gynecology, at the address quoted by you in Pleven, ul. ..Pierre Curie No. 2. I can assure you that after a check-up it is found that at present there is no order for authorisation of new medical activities at the Hospital "Heart and Brain" EAD at a new address, Sofia District, Kasicene village, Pancharevo District, Farmapark Street. In accordance with the requirements of the administrative procedure in the Ministry of Health, a complex assessment of the Executive Agency is presented with a proposal to the Minister of Health for the authorisation of new medical activities, as well as opinions from the NHIF, according to which I quote: The corresponding funds for financing of the new medical activities will be provided for in the financial plans of the NHIF for the period of 2024. Dear Professor Angelov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Health Insurance Fund, I assure you that in relation to the opinions sent by the Executive Agency, I will request further information from the two institutions in order to make a proper decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u8	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u9	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Serbenova, is the fact that you said about the opinion of the National Health Insurance Fund?? How will the National Health Insurance Fund provide funds in its budget for 2024, provided that the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is accepted by all of us in the National Assembly? Here again there are heavy lobbying interests and connections that need to be explored. [[(Reply from?) We continue the Change: Who says so?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] Dear Minister, I would like to make it clear to the Bulgarian citizens what objectives the Ministry of Health has been pursuing over the past few months, as there is no spare capacity of hospital beds in the profile specialities in Sofia. Punitive teams were sent to three major medical institutions in Sofia, namely to the hospitals "Pirogov", "Lozenets" and "Alexandrovska" where the executives had the task of releasing the necessary capacity from hospital beds. Thus the hospital beds were folded in the indicated hospitals, profile specialists, profile specialties were released and suddenly in the course of the administrative procedure free capacity was released on the Health Card. That was the goal and it was almost achieved. Please, Madam Minister, Sophia doesn't need a new hospital. There are many places in the country that need new hospitals. [[(Repeat from.. Continue Change.......................................................................................................]] where there is no access to medical care, where there is no access to everything that exists in Sofia. I respect the investment intentions of any Bulgarian owner or trader, but let them be directed to a place that will solve problems of Bulgarian citizens and not to a place from which to be, I would say, drained funds from the National Health Insurance Fund and realised profits. [[Repeat from.. Continue Change.......................................................................................................]] [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u10	Mrs. Minister, douche bag, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the opinion I have just read to you that I will require further evaluations from the Agency and the NHIF, I add all three reports from the hospitals quoted by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u12	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to the next question raised by the National Representative Asen Baltov on the infusion of the Hospital of Lozenets at the Bulgarian Hospital of Children's Diseases. Professor, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! We have witnessed in the last days of the management of the Minister of Health of an unprecedented act of infusion of the University Hospital "Lozenets" which is a basis for the training of students of the Medical Faculty of Sofia University, to the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Children's Diseases. Prof. Dr. Ivan Mitev "EAD," which, in turn, is a basis for training at the Medical University "Sofia," as well as the training of a company responsible for the construction of the National Children's Hospital. For the public remained unclear the motives of this hasty action of the former minister of service, which led to completely understandable protests by both the staff of the University Hospital Lozenets and the students and lecturers of the Faculty of Medicine of Sofia University. In this regard, my question was also witnessed last Friday what happened around the National Assembly. In connection with the recent actions of the minister of the service, please explain, Madam Minister, what are the consequences of the infusion of the University Hospital of Lozenets in the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Children's Diseases?Professor Dr. Ivan Mitev and the company responsible for the construction of the National Pediatric Hospital, what actions you intend to take, how will the use of capital of 100 million will be guaranteed. lv. to build a National Children's Hospital and that they will not pay off old debts or other non-target costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u14	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Professor Baltov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment "Lozenets" EAD and "Healthy Investment Company for Children's Hospital" EAD are converted through an injection in the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Children's Diseases.Professor Dr. Ivan Mitev. The two transformation companies are terminated without liquidation and, as a result of their infusion, the entire property is transferred to the receiving company under the conditions of universal administration. The same was carried out by a decision of the sole owner of the capital, set out in Protocols No 16694 of 8 December 2021; No 16695 of the same date; No 16696 of the same date and No 16697 of the same date; four protocols signed by the Minister of Health as an authority exercising the rights of the State in the capital of the companies. The clarification of the case on the transformation of companies concerned with the project to build a new children's hospital, you know, is one of the first tasks I have undertaken. In this regard, I sent a letter to the Boards of Directors of all three companies and asked for immediate suspension of the actions to bring decisions of the sole owner of the capital for the conversion of the companies to the four protocols referred to, until further instructions were received. Meanwhile, within the first two days, I held meetings with all interested parties, including the Rector of Sofia University.St. Kliment Ohridski, as you noted, this is a university base for training of more than 1000 students, including the management of the Hospital.Lozenets. I assure you that the final decision on the initiation of the transformation of those companies, which has been suspended, will be taken after clarification of all the facts and circumstances. In view of the great public interest in this matter and the government's commitment to transparency and publicity of its actions, the actions taken by me in relation to this matter will be made public. For me are important the restoration of the normal educational process at the Faculty of Medicine at Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski" and this was announced by the Rector of the University, as well as finding the best long-term solution to work for the establishment of the National Children's Hospital, meeting the needs of children's health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u16	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Professor. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u17	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response. I very much hope that this will indeed continue, as you have said, and that the immediate suspension of the infusion action will become final. Coalition GERB-SDS in its program had bet the construction of the National Children's Hospital and we will follow the promised by However, the way this infusion was done is, to put it mildly, scandalous. Thank you for your answer. We are still constructive opposition, we will monitor these processes and we will not hesitate to ask questions about all the actions you will take in the future, so that they are transparent and freed from the slightest suspicions of corruption. We witnessed the biggest death in the fourth wave, namely to this day 11,000 and 700 dead, a sleeping opportunity to strengthen the vaccination process and severely violate the Anti-epidemic plan by the minister of the service, to which an excellent assessment was given at the end of his term of office to deal with Rumen Radev's pandemic. I hope your approach will be different, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u18	Thank you, Professor. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Baltov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I have already mentioned in the answer to your question, I held a meeting with all interested parties as soon as I took office. Prof. Dr. Radosvet Gornev insisted the medical establishment to maintain its status, to continue to work as a basis for the training of students from the Faculty of Medicine of Sofia University, St. Kliment Ohridski. The management of the hospital expressed its opinion that it is a key medical facility and should therefore not be rushed into the decisions on its transformation. The meeting was fruitful because we united around the fact that the educational and healing process at Lozenets Hospital should continue immediately in ensuring high quality both of the training and of the medical care provided to patients. During the meeting with the Director of the Specialized Children's Hospital "Professor" Dr. Ivan Mitev "Dr. Bogomil Zdravkov" and Professor Ivan Litvinenko it became clear that the team of pediatrics has prepared a project to improve the conditions in the medical establishment until a final solution is found on the construction of a new children's hospital. I expect this project to be submitted to me by the Executive Director next week. Like the team of Lozenets Hospital, the opinion of the management of the Children's Hospital is that any hasty action for transformation and mechanical infusion of medical institutions "without detailed functional analysis" will only discourage specialists and put at risk the preservation of a team of specialists, which has been built for decades. Everything said so far confirms the correctness of my decision to suspend the infusion to make sure that we will make the best decision for the Bulgarian children, for those working in both hospitals and for the students of the Faculty of Medicine at Sofia University. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u20	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With this our questions to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova are closed. Thank you, Madam Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. A letter was received to postpone a reply from the National Representative Atanas Dimitrov Mihnev on the grounds of art. 92, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly requests that the answer to a question be postponed to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications about the delay in the time limits for the reconstruction of Stara Zagora Station due to the absence for respectable reasons. With this, parliamentary control is exhausted today. We move on to item two of the agenda for today, Friday, 17 December 2021: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO REPEAT THE VACATION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING BY TC. 39, AL. 2 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION WITH IMPORTERS "VIKTORIA VASYLEVA" AND A GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES, 16 DECEMBER 2021 г. PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DAYS OF THE VACATION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING BY Art. 39, AL. 2 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION WITH IMPORTERS? ANDREI GUROV AND THE GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES, 16 DECEMBER 2021 DECEMBER 2021 The draft decision on the cancellation of the holiday of the National Assembly under art. 39, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by Victoria Vasileva and a group of MPs. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION for the cancellation of a holiday of the National Assembly under art. 39, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 39, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Revocation of the provisions of art. 39, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly vacation from 22 December 2021 to 10 January 2022 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u22	Thank you. The draft decision for the change of the days of vacation of the National Assembly under art. 39, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you go, Mr. Mitev. ISCRENE MITEV [[Keep On Changing]] Subcutaneous or intravenous use Project! DECISION to change the days of vacation of the National Assembly under art. 39, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 39, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED For 2021 reduces the period of vacation of the National Assembly under art. 39, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly from 22 December to 10 January until the days 29 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. The difference between the two projects is that the imported by Victoria Vassileva and a group of MPs envisages that there will be no weekends outside the official ones, and the holiday between December 29 and 31, the one deposited by Andrej Gurov and a group of MPs. I am opening discussions on this item on the agenda, fellow Members. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I suggest we do not support both projects. It is known that Bulgaria is a country of religious freedoms and legal nihilism. You, the new ruling majority, have demonstrated to us in the last few days that the Constitution is some detail, respectively, art. 13, para. 3 is probably some detail. It shows us that the official religion in Bulgaria is not particularly important to him because he did not invite the patriarch and the new government did not swear to the Christian symbols. However, I would like to point out to you that with this decision you will accept, you will violate the civil and religious rights of people who follow the Christian religion and live in the church. Because in the period from Christmas to January 8, there are many important Christian holidays related to ritualism, ritualism, and if people want and insist on living in the church, they will not be able to observe them. So, please, think again and do not support the proposals that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u25	A line from Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are used to constantly speaking half-truths and absolutely false news once again. There is an official position of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church that Patriarch Neofit was invited to the oath, but he could not attend and Bishop Gerasim was present. Let us read and inform ourselves, and not use false news from this tribune, because it happens again. For example, there is no Mr Hamid Hamid, who said I was a member of seven-eight parties. I've been a member of one. False news from this tribune and what you expect to happen in the media and in social networks. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u27	Mr. Manev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u28	Dear colleague Dilov, I disagree with some of the things you said. Neither the legal nihilism nor the Christian values of liberal government give a shit. A commissioner the other day, two or three days ago, came out and said Christmas should be canceled as a holiday. The European Parliament debated on this topic yesterday and our liberal governance began to try whether it will become the number in Bulgaria earlier. This is what you should have said from this platform to colleagues and Bulgarian citizens. [[Noise and lines.]] And as for the fact that we do not work for Facebook and for the media, but we work for Bulgarian citizens, you should probably stress this for my speech that it is not important what people on Facebook hear, but to hear it from the platform of the National Assembly, in order to know that when a wave of liberal, somewhere, we are in a hurry to be first. Maybe that's more important. [[Applause from GERB-SDS, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u29	Is there another line? [[Reply from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u30	Colleagues, no discussion like this!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u31	Would you care to comment on that? In accordance with the order of the National Assembly, I would like you to punish him. He called me a troll.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u32	It's a good thing I didn't hear that insult then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u33	I want a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u34	No, you have no personal explanation, please! No discussion!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u35	Punish him for insulting me in the National Assembly. He's probably even entered the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u36	Mr. Manev, I didn't hear it, believe me! We'll see if it's accessed the transcript. I really didn't hear it. Just don't have that kind of talk, please! [[Reply from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov.]] It's all about you! Mr. Bojankov, come on! There are no other lines. Here you go, Mr. Dilov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ananiev, I may not have seen Bishop Tikhon, which I apologize to you as well. [[a line from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev]] Gerasim, I'm sorry, but I didn't see a Bible or a gospel of the oath. If anyone saw him, please correct me. Of course, you're right. As I said at the beginning of my speech, Bulgaria is famous for its very tolerance. Just think of the fact that you restrict the rights of your fellow MPs. If anyone remembers to replicate me that normal, ordinary Bulgarians also work during these days, many of them... [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] True, but they can take leave, Mr. Ananiev, and we with your proposal cannot take leave. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u38	No lines from the place!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u39	Yes, we are extraordinary Bulgarians, Mr. Ananiev, because we do not have a green certificate and many other things that apply to ordinary Bulgarians, we already understood that. Your obsession with unusuality will lead you to a simple place. I'll just remind you that at the end of the chess game, all the pieces are collected in the same box. Bless you! [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u40	Thank you. Any other speeches? Miroslava Petrova, then Thomas Bikov. I'm recording you too, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members, with respect to the entire House! The proposal of the Parliamentary Group is continuing the Change in the part of the Change in the Parliamentary Holidays is for completely pragmatic reasons. Above all, we want to show the people of the country that we are in no way different from them and therefore we believe that we should hold our parliamentary meetings on 23 and 22 December. For exactly the same reason, we believe that the plenary session in the days from 27 to 31 December should coincide with the planned holidays of most of the country's workers. And again the period after 3 January is working for all Bulgarians. With this very minor correction we emphasize what? Our responsibility to the serious tasks that stand before the National Assembly, entirely pragmatic, is to be done with regard to the composition of parliamentary committees, we have an analysis of the prices of electricity and the state of energy. And again, not least... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u42	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u43	...we have a simple duty to our constituents and to the citizens of this country. It is that we are gathered here to work harder than to rest. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u44	Do you think there's any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Petrova, no. You have not proved that we are equal to all Bulgarian citizens because, if you have forgotten, last week the political formation is continuing to support the proposal, which identifies us with all Bulgarian citizens the green certificate to apply in parliament as well. Even from your parliamentary group promised Bulgarian citizens that by the end of this week we would adopt such a decision. We have tabled such a decision, but today the Program, which we voted on this morning, does not include a proposal that the Bulgarian certificate should apply to Bulgarian MPs as well. So, please, when you go out on this stand to do... some cheap populism, don't at least lie. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u46	Thank you. There are no other lines. A hole? I won't. Toma Bikov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since Christmas Eve isn't going to work, of course, everything else doesn't really matter. I hope, however, that you have done your bill for the program that we will be looking at on the 29th, 30th, on the 31st, and I'm sure you already have an idea of what it will be and will be extremely busy, right? Let's not turn out to be coming here for one point, because we'll remind you then. It's crazy, it works, it's crazy, it's bad practice for parliament. There was a colleague in the previous three parliaments who said: the less we work, the better for the people. Because in the last two days, these things are being viewed here, that if on the 29th and 30th you've decided to reanalyze something and cause some kind of severe crisis, that wouldn't be good for anyone before the holidays, and I see that you have such potential. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] If we're gonna gather here to analyze, let me tell you, I'm constantly analyzing things at home. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS]] And if we're going to do analysis, this is no place for analysis. There are non-governmental organizations, institutes, centers and all sorts of things they analyze from morning to night. If you just want to, and it seems to me that there is something like that, just to give birth today and say: here we are, starting now we will work like everyone else, but at some point it turns out that we do not know what we are working for. Well, it's not serious. So, yes, we will support you, but as of today, please sit down and propose some meaningful agenda for these days, not just walking our costumes down the halls and analyzing how we spent Christmas, then the next day analyzing how we're going to spend New Year. Thank you. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u48	Thank you. There are no lines. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Apart from GERB and DPS and to some extent BSP, but apart from GERB, DPS, most people in this hall have come here some for half a year, others for the first time. We have all watched Parliament for the past 20 years and the past 30 years, and it has always been touchingly disgusting how Parliament is taking insanely long vacations and people are working. Here in this part of the hall GERB have the insolence to say that the green certificate aligns us to the people. Well, look at how many people have it, dear colleagues. Seventy-five percent of people do not have a green certificate and if you are going to join something, join the majority of the Bulgarian population. Secondly, I know that some are playing very religious from that part of the room, too, but they actually go out to perform their religious prowess, diving here and there in the world. [[Applause from IHN and "We are continuing the Change."]] So, honourable Members, yes, Parliament must set an example, yes, we have a lot of work to do and yes, we must work like all other Bulgarian citizens. So our proposal is that you know what it's like for the holidays to coincide with the non-working days of ordinary, normal Bulgarian citizens, as we should be. You're not gods, dudes!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I do not know whether it is clear to everyone, but making a demonstration of how we work without doing anything is in no way beneficial for the Bulgarian citizens or for the Bulgarian state. Yeah, there's a lot of work to be done, and I hope we do. We're not gonna talk about her, we're not gonna talk about her on the sidelines, and we're not gonna have meaningless analytical debates, because sometimes there are. What really bothers me is that I don't feel like a dude and the downgrading of this audience and this institution here is extremely insulting to everyone who's present. I don't know why we do this to each other.! However, Members of the National Assembly, unlike the ordinary citizen who is not a Member of the National Assembly, are not entitled to leave. At least that's what it says. In this sense, I believe that when a person tries to demonstrate work in the morning from 8:00 a.m. and evening until 24:00 a.m., for one reason or another, or until 22.00 a.m., he is incapable. And as a man who has worked for many years in the private sector, I know it's much more useful for people to have the freedom to do specific work without having to sit for hours somewhere and demonstrate that they are doing something. And I fear that the way we approach what we have to do ahead leads us to a demonstration and to what someone can say on Facebook or watching us on national television rather than doing specific work. Because we've also witnessed what happened this week in the past week. I hope that doesn't become a rule. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman! I hope this does not become a rule and does not become a way of working for this National Assembly. Therefore, I urge you to think carefully. Everyone needs a break, everyone has a family. In the previous parliament, we didn't have a summer vacation. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yordanov, the theme green certificate and whether we are equal to the other Bulgarian citizens again obviously becomes the topic in the speeches of the MPs no matter what we discuss as a item on the agenda. And yes, you are right that 75% of Bulgarian citizens do not have a green certificate for the reason that they do not have a dose of any vaccine. However, this does not mean that we, as called not only to create rules for public relations, but also to be a partial example of society, must once again demonstrate a difference from the same society from which we have been chosen and which is our employer to all of us. In this sense, our parliamentary group will support one of the proposals of "We are continuing the Change" which has been tabled to reduce the working days, that is to say on the weekends of the National Assembly. But I think that in any case, we must realise that our very presence here should lead to legislative initiatives, and good ones, and good ones! Otherwise, we waste an infinite amount of time on the timing of the state in yet another emotional or euphoric decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. For a replica "Yavor Bozhankov."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yordanov, we should note that it is not really a matter of GERB's strategy here for the division of the people of ordinary, extraordinary, to do some work, and their goal is not to do the work and sabotage the legislative process. Because you see that they do lines on you and on every MP, they make the same statements, with the same ones, with the sole purpose of losing parliamentary time. This is a classic approach that in virtual space fits the troll. In parliament, I don't know what it's called, maybe a physical troll. But the GERB group behaves like physical trolls in this room, which only slow down the adoption of the Rules. [[(Applause from IHN, banging on banks and screams:]] These rules must unblock the work of the National Assembly. It is a prerequisite for the establishment of regular committees. These committees should start to solve the problems of Bulgarian citizens. With their behavior GERB do only and this is all they stop the work of parliament. [[Applause from IHN and "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u56	Colleagues, I ask that the speeches be on the topic of weekends! It's all about you! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u57	Colleagues, I hope you heard what the people of GERB said about Mrs. Kirova, she is extraordinary and the people on the streets are ordinary. She suffered that she didn't have a summer vacation. Deputy isn't a privilege, it's optional. If you want to go to the private sector, take vacations. I've worked in the private sector for 29 years, I haven't been to the sea for four years, and I haven't had a vacation, but I haven't cried about it. It's optional. So whoever has a hard time here or feels privileged to look in the mirror and see that it is not privileged and if it is difficult to go home. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN and "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u58	You're asking for a personal explanation? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova. [[Heckling]] He mentioned her, and now he's gonna explain if he hurt her.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u59	Mr. Chairman, yes, I'll explain. With regard to who is how ordinary and how extraordinary is, I do not think that the pre-speaker can give assessments................................................................................................ The assessment of who is how ordinary and extraordinary citizens have given the citizens of the past elections and they are expressed in the percentage of confidence that each leader of the list has received in his electoral region. So it's quite offensive for a person with that percentage to give qualifications. As for who's made what choice, since I'm here in this room, I've made my choice. I will allow myself from here on out of respect for myself to never enter into a debate with the speaker again, because he insults at all the people and the people in this room with his conduct and the way he dresses and the way he behaves, and that is in my opinion unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u60	Thank you. Dessislava Atanasova under procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure will be in the manner in which I hold, Mr President, whenever someone calls with certain epithets a parliamentary group, you must intervene, but it will also be on another occasion. Please stop this debate even though we have no basis under the Rules of Procedure, but in my opinion it becomes offensive to Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, we will vote on the proposal deposited by Victoria Vasileva and a group of MPs. It is deposited first in order and it is wider in scope. We are voting on the proposal of Victoria Vasileva and a group of MPs. Vote 191 MPs: 55 against 12, abstention 124. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we are going to vote on the proposal for a draft decision deposited by Andrej Gurov and a group of MPs. Vote 212 MPs: 181, against 20, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. We've run out of that and so on. Two on the agenda today. Moving on to point three: PROJECT OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. Yesterday we reached art. 27, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 27, which becomes art. 28. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 28, which becomes art. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 29, which becomes art. 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u64	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Colleagues, I am opening the discussion on Articles 27, 28 and 29, which will respectively be renumbered at 28, 29 and 30. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please proceed to the vote on these provisions, as proposed by the Commission. Vote 157 MPs: for 157, against and abstention there is no. The provisions have been adopted in the manner proposed by the Temporary Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u65	Under art. 30 there is a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 30, which becomes art. 31: Art. 31. (1) Citizens may attend the meetings of the committees subject to the access regime of the National Assembly and the order established in the committees. The list of persons present shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. (2) Representatives of civil organisations, trade unions, consensus and branch organisations may submit written opinions and may, on their initiative, attend the meetings of the committees and take part in discussions on the draft acts of the National Assembly concerned with their subject-matter, subject to the order established in the committees. The list of persons present, representatives of organisations, shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. The opinions shall be published on the website of the relevant committee on the website of the National Assembly. (3) The representatives of organizations under para. 2, written observations shall be submitted and shall be invited to attend the meetings of the committee. (4) Representatives of civil organisations may attend the meetings of the Standing Committees when answering current oral questions under art. 28 and in the case of hearings pursuant to Chapter 9a, Section III, subject to the access regime in the National Assembly. The list of persons present shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. (5) Any member of a permanent committee may invite individuals or representatives of legal persons concerned with the matters concerned by the committee to participate in its meeting. The list of invited persons shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. (6) Accredited journalists and other journalists who are granted access may attend open meetings of the Standing Committees of the National Assembly. (7) Members of the National Assembly who are not members of the relevant committee may participate in all its meetings without the right to vote. (8) The participation of Members of Members in closed meetings of committees in which they are not members, documents and the topics to which they have been acquainted shall be recorded in a special protocol and signed by the same. (9) Those participating in committee meetings shall comply with the requirements for the protection of classified information and the protection of personal data and shall not disclose data relating to the privacy and good name of citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I propose to you and art. 31 to introduce us as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u67	Under art. 31 has a proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the Project and proposes art. 31 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 31, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u68	Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 32, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u69	Under art. 32 there is a proposal of the MP Iva Miteva and the MP Andrey Mihaylov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Elena Guncheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 32: Art. 32. (1) The Chairs of the Standing Committees shall announce in writing the agenda, time and place of meetings on the website of the National Assembly and by e-mail to the members of the Committee. The agenda for regular committee meetings shall be announced at the latest two days prior to their holding. In cases where extraordinary committee meetings are held, the agenda shall be announced at the same time as the deadline. (2) The Standing Committees shall open their meetings and adopt acts where more than half of their members are present. Where, after the time for the opening of the meeting, the quorum is not available, the committee may also meet with the available composition, in which case only control under art. 28, hearings and discussions, but no votes can be held and acts can be adopted. Members of the National Assembly, who are placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine for COVID-19, shall participate in the meetings of the Standing Committees under the rules of participation adopted by the National Assembly. Members of the National Assembly who participate remotely in the work of the committees shall be given a technical opportunity for speeches, opinions, questions and participation in the debates. (3) When discussing bills and other acts at committee meetings, the importer shall be heard. When the bill is submitted by the Council of Ministers, a member of the Council of Ministers or Deputy Minister shall be heard at the meeting. (4) The decisions of the Standing Committees shall be adopted by a majority of those present. The vote is personal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I am opening the discussion on the provisions of art. 30, which shall be renumbered as art. Article 31; 31, which becomes a new paragraph in the previous article, and Article 31 32. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will always support something proposed by the parties who are in the coalition and have created this government. I've decided to be humble and stupid. Yesterday, I heard an offer from an associate professor and a doctor of law. If this proposal by art. 32, para. 2 was made by someone else, not by our top lawyer, but also by Dr. Iva Miteva, I would have told myself what I thought. Now I just want to be answered and explained to me because I think as a committee member. In my opinion, in this way formulated, the text is unacceptable and is not for the benefit of the Members of the National Assembly, even less for the citizens. The text reads: The Standing Committees open the meeting and adopt acts when more than half of their members are present. I agree with that, I have no parliamentary experience. The word sitting has always been associated with a hearing, and I know that when the composition of the court is of five people, and there are two people, there can be no hearing. I will continue to go this way: "When, after the time for the opening of the meeting, the quorum is not available, the committee may hold a meeting. " What is my question to vote for this provision: do we have a legal sitting in this case, or do we not have such a meeting? I give you the following example: I am the chairman of a committee. At the meeting of the committee, which has been convened, we appear two people - me and another colleague. In this case, the sentence first does not apply, and hence the contradiction is: "When, after the time for the opening of the meeting, the quorum is not available, the committee may hold a meeting. " - Do we have a meeting or not? At the meeting of this meeting I have sent a request for four ministers, to the chiefs of agencies and so on, to be heard I think the text of the Rules was under art. Art. 27 or art. 28, and I remain with another Commissioner. This means that the text so written has a sitting. I am obliged to keep the agenda that belongs to the Commission. This guy leaves, I'm the only one left, I have to follow shorthand protocol, ask questions and follow the agenda. I do not know why this text is included in the Rules of Procedure as a change and what is the benefit for the Members of the National Assembly and for the citizens, respectively? We are faced with a situation in which I, as chairman of a committee, am obliged to do so because it says: "In the presence of the staff available, to stand and listen to 10 ministers and to keep the agenda. If you can convince me that I'm wrong in my analysis, I will vote on this text. Yesterday, I voted on two texts that I did not vote on my conscience. This one, if you can convince me to change my mind, I'll vote again if the coalition has accepted such a decision. I'm counting on you to understand. If you can explain to me if I'm thinking correctly, you have my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Would any of the importers of this text like to explain to Mr. Atanasov? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u73	Mr. Atanasov, the text stems from the amendments to the 2007 Constitution, which adopted the National Assembly to open its meetings and adopt acts by a majority of more than half, i.e. 121. This debate was very much held in the previous parliament, you know, on the occasion of the votes here in plenary. When this is also the practice up to the forty-fifth parliament, there is no quorum in the committee at the opening, it can work, the text used to say, "In the case of a quorum of not less than one third and in the case of the staff available, but not less than one third. Now we've been thinking a lot about whether to stay this one third or to remove it. I have also been thinking about what you are saying two or three, but here the logic is that the Commission can sit so that its work cannot be blocked. Since the committees are currently 24.. you know, they should be online and it should be a personal vote. In order not to block the work of the committees, so the door is opened as it is for plenary when there is no quorum. You know, during control, the plenary room can also meet with two MPs, hold parliamentary control, hold hearings, do discussions, but cannot vote. This is also the practice in all European countries. Since we do not change the quorum, the quorum remains the same. By the way, we retain the high quorum for adopting acts, that is to say, the way it is in plenary, we carry it already to the committees. This is what we keep, but we say: in order not to block the work of the committees, let them be able to conduct discussions, conduct hearings and look to the law if they want to, but not to do any votes, whether it is a law, a declaration or a decision. That's the honest approach we think. Yes, it is imperative for the committees, but it is still a better option than in the forty-sixth Parliament to meet 50 plus one and constantly seek 50 plus one all the time in the sitting. There is no way that we can secure this with so many committees and a personal vote. That is why, in fact, the procedure and the work of the plenary, we carry it mirrorfully to the committees in accordance with the constitutional provision of art. 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. We've already got three lines, and then we've got a speech. Here's your cue now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u75	Mrs. Miteva, my question is: is there even a Commission meeting when I am alone there? Whether there is a meeting or not has its consequences. A meeting is held with only one person because this is how you formulated it in the available composition. I am the only one involved, and what is the effectiveness of such a speech without a meeting of the Commission? The goal is that once there is an agenda, we can keep it and benefit from the Commission's work, right? The rules changed it you in the forty-sixth parliament and para. 2 states: The Standing Committees shall meet when more than half of their members are present, and then we shall have a Commission meeting. And the President himself listening to ten ministers is not a sitting for me, the wording is not correct and I do not see what the use of this text is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u76	We're not gonna get into this situation. Then maybe Mrs. Miteva can explain if there's a meeting and how it starts. Second line, here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Miteva, listening to your explanation, this is how it works: we tried to do something in the forty-fifth National Assembly, and in the forty-sixth we found that it didn't work, and now we are trying to go back to the previous practice, meaning the experience was unsuccessful. You say that there are many committees and the MPs will not be able to be available in the committees in which they sit. Well, that's why we increased the time for committee meetings, that is, on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, even on Fridays, they can sit?! It is a matter of organisation of the Committee Chairs themselves and not to match them, so this argument is not correct. I have one question: what will happen, say, we are looking at a bill at second reading and I have submitted proposals on it, but I am not sick of a horse so that I can participate remotely and I am example of an operation in a hospital and objectively unable to attend the meeting?! Then there have been discussions, there is no vote because there have been only discussions, and will such a type of MP subsequently be able to participate in the discussions and defend its proposals? Dear Mr. President, I am making an editorial note: the word "speeches" to be cast and please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u78	Just a moment to find out what paragraph this is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u79	In para. Art. 2, Art. 28 words to be heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u80	Okay, I get it. Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Miteva! You forgot to explain to your colleague that, in fact, in para. 2 writes...................................................................................... As chairman of the committee, he will simply suspend the meeting unless he is pleased to question the ministers himself because he has the opportunity. This decision will now be the sole and only of the President, once he is alone, will end the committee. We have this hypothesis, personally, I don't think there's any case.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor for the dot, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u83	I don't know if we're here to philosophize or to work and read the Constitution? After all, there are motives for this Constitution when it is adopted. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 The National Assembly is very strongly said that when there is no quorum, discussions, hearings, parliamentary control can be made, and this can be done even with two MPs in the Chamber. Since it can be done with the laws of the first and second votes in the plenary, which is decisive, let us not forget, however, that the committees are an auxiliary body of the National Assembly, I cannot understand why it should not be done with greater reason also in the parliamentary committees?! Thank you, Mr. Ananiev, I was going to say it too, and this is the legal option: the Presidents are therefore Presidents because they are entrusted with a little more responsibility than the other MPs. They are led by leaders, so with the committee's leadership they are the ones who take the decision and assess whether there should be a meeting or not, so that this legal option is within the competence of the committee's management. With regard to the adoption of a meeting in the Forty-fifth and Forty-sixth Parliament, yes, the text was radically changed by the practice that was before 2021, and radically because you want 121 people for plenary or for committee the corresponding 50 plus one, the difference is huge and you know that it is very difficult to achieve. We have seen this in many key committees and on the views of laws in the National Assembly in the Forty-sixth Parliament. I therefore insist that this text be adopted in this form and mirrored for what is happening in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Come in for a speech, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I realize that we are in an epidemic situation where one disease goes above all others, but in view of not changing these rules too often, I would suggest an editorial correction of art. 32, para. 2 where it writes:.. People's representatives who are placed under mandatory isolation and quarantine for COVID-19..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u86	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u87	I just want to ask Professor Simidchiev. You said that you wanted me to fall under the COVID-19, only that the text then refers to the rules adopted for participation in the plenary. We have accepted only the COVID-19 and that is why the text is so done. The question is: do you want any other editing and just consider whether the rules will be adopted by the committee itself, whether there will be any other order at all, and even if I are going to get.COVID-19............................ will not solve the problem with what you said?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. For the doppelganger? You don't want to. Here's your speech, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Under the Law on Laws, a regulation is good when it is clear and accurate, because its purpose is to implement it, and in the event of its breach accordingly to take some responsibility according to what the act itself is. Personally, for me is the vague wording of the new article. 31, para. 9, and in its first part, things are clear because they refer to certain regulations, but in the second part there is uncertainty about certain terms that are included in it. Alinea 9 sounds as follows: The participants in the committees' meetings are obliged to comply with the requirements of the Law on classified information and for the protection of personal data. "So far nothing disturbing, because it is clearly formulated what classified information is and which data is personal, but then it is actually the proposal that Mrs. Miteva has submitted. I will ask for an explanation from her, so that there may be clarity on the proposed proposal which has been formulated................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In my opinion, the good name of the citizens and the good name of the citizens are common and do not give the parameters of what we really should not share and should not disclose from the personal life of the respective minister or person who has been heard in the relevant committee and what the good name of that citizen means. If during the committee it is found that the Minister in question, the head of an agency or any other official has committed a breach of the duties, does it mean that the comment on these actions falls under the provision of art. 9, namely, that we violate his good name?! I think now is the time to give a formulation of what is a personal life and a good name, so that each of us will not then have to be subjected to attacks for failing to comply with our own rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Balachev. Is there any line to that statement? Mrs. Miteva, do you want to explain to Mr. Balachev what a personal life is and a good name or not? Mr. Gazhev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In short, just to explain, however, what this is about and what is really hidden behind the otherwise kind text that has been proposed. I suppose the MPs in this House understand the context of the text itself, but let's explain it to the outside. It's basically a clause that prevents rifts in the coalition. What does that mean? Each ruling majority has its majority in the committees, and putting such a text usually means where these problems come from. When there is a rift in the coalition on a bill or a draft decision, that is, not all parties in the coalition agree with it in order not to push the coalition, they go out and do not vote because they have a different position. This text enables importers and the Chair of the Commission to continue the discussions on the draft or draft decision despite the disagreement of the majority in the committee. If the majority is missing, it means there's no agreement. In this way, they put their colleagues at an uncomfortable time, and not to mention that this way can lead not only to political blackmail, but also to many different measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u92	Which member are you talking about, Mr. Gadget? Here's a line, Mrs. Miteva. You've included a very deep meaning in this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u93	I thank you for having such a deep meaning included in this text. By the way, I have carefully familiarized myself with the practice of other countries and believe me, this is almost everywhere. In other countries even require much higher majority for the adoption and discussion of acts, including the quorum, which is two thirds of the committee, and we are not going that far. In general, the requirement for the reduced quorum and for one third, as it was until 2021, is almost nowhere, large exceptions are there. In fact, it was my desire to direct the text and not to allow the adoption of acts with a lower majority than what is required under the Constitution, and, on the other hand, not to suspend the meetings of the committees and not to be stabbed at all times. In the previous parliament, although we had very few meetings, many of the meetings coincided and the MPs ran from committee to committee.. There are now 24 and the problem will not be less. We must therefore be very careful when adopting the texts, carefully discussing them and still follow the constitutional provisions. I didn't mean what you said at all, Mr. Gajev, but thank you for paying attention. And in relation to para. 2 I propose that this sentence, which was related to the COVID-19, should sound: the Members of the National Assembly, who are placed under compulsory isolation or quarantine, participate in the meetings of the Standing Committees under the rules adopted by the committee concerned. And every committee can decide, you know, that there is this option under the Rules, and that way these internal rules of each committee will be filled with content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. I would very much like to say something, too, but I can't, because I am holding a meeting, especially about how decisions are made in the committees in previous terms, Mr. Gajev. Any other speeches? Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll take the attitude in para. 2 of the proposed art. 32 and, in particular, I will try, without being a lawyer, my brain is otherwise damaged, economically damaged, not legally, to explain how I read this text. On the basis of the constitutional change to which Mrs. Miteva refer, we have two types of meetings, that is to say, to escape from the fact that a sitting means only a hearing, not every meeting of the world is a hearing. There are other meetings, and here in our Rules there are two types of meetings, which can adopt acts and vote, and a meeting that can do other things, but cannot adopt acts and vote for example to hear, to discuss, to control. What the Rules say, there are two types of meetings, one that can..., the other one doesn't. In order for you to have the first one, it is imperative that we have a quorum, but in order to have the second one, there is not necessarily a quorum, and at the decision of the President of the Commission there may also be this second type of meeting. I don't see what the problem is. I hope I explained that. Thank you. [[Unique applause by.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Any other lines? I can't see. Statements? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are now going to vote. I will put to the vote Mr. Gazhev's proposal in art. 32, para. 2 to drop the words............................................................................................... They voted 132 MPs: 40, against 75, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Simidchiev's proposal in art. 32, para. 2 to go for the COVID-19. [[Declarations between the rapporteur and the President.]] I put to the vote Mrs. Iva Miteva's editorial proposal under art. 32, para. 2. They voted 134 MPs: 109, against 4, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u97	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u98	I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Vote 128 MPs: 112, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on art. 30, which becomes art. Article 31; 31, which becomes para. 4 in the new Article. Article 31, and Article 31 32. 140 MPs voted: 137 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 33. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 34. Under art. 35 has a proposal from the MP Hristo Gazhev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal Proposal of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 35: Art. 35. (1) For the meetings of the Permanent and Temporary Committees of the National Assembly there shall be a shorthand protocol, as well as an audio-visual recording. (2) The minutes shall be signed by the Chair of the Commission and by the lead minutes. The minutes shall state the outcome of the vote by parliamentary groups. (3) The minutes of the discussion of bills shall be published on the committee's website on the National Assembly's website within 7 days of the meeting and no later than 72 hours before the examination of the report in plenary, unless the committee decides otherwise. The audio-visual recording shall be published on the committee's website on the National Assembly's website at the latest the following day after the meeting. (4) The minutes of the closed meetings of the Standing Committees shall have a special storage, reporting and access regime as required by the Classified Information Protection Act. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 36. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u100	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. We're going to vote on art. Article 33, 34 by importer; 35 in the version of the Commission and art. Art. 36, Art. 37 by importer, too. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u101	"Chapter 6" Permanent delegations of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Six. Proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38, para. 1 after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrey Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 38: Art. 38. (1) The National Assembly shall elect from its composition the permanent delegations of the National Assembly in international organisations. (2) In determining the composition of the permanent delegations of the National Assembly, the ratio between the number of parliamentary groups shall be maintained in international organisations. (3) Upon termination of the existence of a parliamentary group, the representative elected on its proposal in the composition of the permanent delegation shall be released. (4) Permanent delegations shall report to the President of the National Assembly at the end of each session. Reports shall be published on the website of the National Assembly subject to the requirements for the protection of classified information and for the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u102	I'm opening a discussion on the lyrics. I don't see any speeches. We're closing the discussion. First, we will vote on the text on the name of Chapter Six. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 154 MPs: 48 against 82 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 38 in the version of the Commission. 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 39. Under art. 40 has a proposal of the MP Elena Guncheva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 40, para. 2 to change the text as follows: In the text: In cases of art. 78, p. 2, 3 and 4 of the Constitution, the President shall be obliged to schedule a meeting no later than 7 days after the receipt of the request, regardless of whether the National Assembly is on vacation or not, to add 78, p. 2, 3 and 4 of the Constitution, the President shall be obliged to set a meeting no later than 7 days, but not earlier than 48 hours after the request has been made, regardless of whether the National Assembly is on vacation or not. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 40. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 42. Under art. 43 has a proposal from the MP Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43, para. The 2th sentence is last amended as follows:.. During the meetings they are obliged to comply with the established order and may be held at the invitation of the President or at the request of a parliamentary group........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 43. Under art. 44 there is a proposal of the MP Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 44 (b) of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u104	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to justify my proposal that an extraordinary meeting be convened no earlier than 48 hours. Quite recently is the example when we did not know when this extraordinary meeting would be called. At the beginning was announced an hour at 9.00 pm, after which another hour was announced at 1300 pm, and the MPs who are outside Sofia were struggling in what way to organize them so that they could attend the meeting. I believe that this is a reasonable period of time in which every Member of the National Assembly who is outside Sofia can be organised so as to be in time for the plenary session. If someone proposes, this period may also be reduced to 24 hours, but there must be some reasonable period within which all Members of the National Assembly may organise and have a quorum of the sitting itself. I would also like to support my colleague Peter Petrov's proposal regarding the speeches in the committees. As we know, the ruling majority will also have a majority in committee manuals. In some cases, it is necessary to take into account issues raised. That is why we also propose in these committees, on behalf of a parliamentary group, that speeches and requests be made. With regard to decisions taken in closed meetings, those decisions shall be binding. There should therefore be a transparency and publicity of what decisions have been made. Everyone should be able to account for what this committee has done and for who has voted, because I do not believe that we are doing any secret and secret work here, except for the cases that are explicitly mentioned in both the Constitution and other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Guncheva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Then I'll call off the discussions and move on to the vote. First we vote on Mrs. Guncheva's proposal under art. 40. They voted 133 MPs: 22, against 71, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on Mr. Peter Petrov's proposal under art. 43. They voted 127 MPs: 11 against 78, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Peter Petrov's proposal under art. 44. They voted 127 MPs: 10, against 79, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter Seven, Articles 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44 by importer. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. [[(Replyes: there is ……]] I'm canceling this vote because I didn't give the minute that was necessary. I ask again for a voting procedure. [[Replys: "Prevoting! "]] Okay, we can do this as a re-vote, so we can be completely correct. I ask the MPs to take their seats. It's a re-vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Cancel the vote. I'll give you 30 minutes. We will proceed with the second vote on these articles after the break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u107	I ask the Quaestors to invite colleagues to take their seats in the Chamber and to make an attempt this time, I hope, with the participation of colleagues from GERB, to complete the work under the Rules. Without the rules, of course. We've found a solution, but why complicate it? I'm waiting another minute or two. I can see the coworkers coming in. I think everyone's already in the room. Just to remind you what we're voting on, though. We vote on the name of Chapter 7 and Articles 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44 by importer. Vote 134 MPs: 129, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u108	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 45. Under art. 46 there is a proposal of the MP Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 46. 3 shall be amended as follows: the President, in connection with the forthcoming vote, may carry out on his own initiative or up to three times in one meeting at the request of a parliamentary group, verification of the quorum through the computerised voting system, by roll-call reading the names of the Members of the National Assembly or by counting the Members of the National Assembly's Secretaries. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 47. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 48. Under art. 49 has a proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 after the word "Duplica" "Personal explanation" is added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 3 the text "sec" is replaced by the text "Secretary" and a half. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 4 the text The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u109	Are there any speeches? Here you are, for a statement. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev.]] Did you say procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, colleagues from the media! So we don't waste time voting and reviewing art. 49, para. 1, para. 3 and para. 4, On behalf of the Group we continue to change, we would like to withdraw our proposal, with which we were willing to improve the effectiveness of the work of the National Assembly. We will find other mechanisms, as has been voted on today, just to work on the weekends where we would like to rest under the Rules, so we withdraw these three articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Dunchev. To speak, Mr. Cholakov. Isn't that for a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'll take you back for a second. 45 to make an editorial proposal, to which I hope you will treat it favorably. My request is, if you don't mind, let's switch places to paragraphs 2 and 3. It seems to me that it is systematically better to talk about open meetings first, then about plenary sittings and then about extraordinary broadcasts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u113	Can you just specify which member?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u114	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u115	Forty-five, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u116	If you don't mind, let's switch places to al. 2 and para. 3. I mean, al. 3 to become para. 2 a para. 2 to become para. 3. Seems to me it's systematically more logical. First of all, there's talk in para. 1 for open meetings, para. 3, new para. 2 for plenary sittings with parliamentary control, and para. 2, which becomes para. 3, is now for direct transmission of plenary sessions in an extraordinary order, what we do from time to time. One. And in para. 2, which becomes para. 3, if you agree, of course, to put a comma at the end and to say:. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the So the idea is that the extraordinary broadcasts at which we hold plenary sessions...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u117	Can we just do this one more time? The first proposal is clearly... you want para. 3 to become para. 2, para. 2 to become para. 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u118	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u119	And then...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u120	And the new Al. 3, let's put it this way, let's put a comma and put it in the order of para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u121	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u123	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I think that we should still vote on these editorial amendments of Mr. Cholakov, as they shift the order, but the National Assembly must rule, and the second proposal must also be voted on. Therefore, first, I put to the vote Mr. Cholakov's proposal in art. 45 to swap places on para. 2 and para. 3, i.e. para. 3 becomes para. 2, para. 2 becomes para. 3. Vote 176 MPs: 42, against 92, abstention 42. In this situation, the proposal is not accepted, but I suppose the idea remains in the current para. 2 "It remains par. 2, but to add:... under the order of para. We should practically call it, shouldn't we? I'm kind of modifying it, because still...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u125	In this situation, I shall put to the vote the following modified version of Mr. Cholakov in para. 2 after the National Assembly to place a comma and to be added according to the order of para. 3.................................................................................. Alinea 3 means BNT 2, you see? Vote 181 MPs: 41, against 97, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Peter Petrov's proposal in art. 46. They voted 154 MPs: 23, against 100, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Articles 45, 46, 47, 48 and 49 by importer, as the proposal of............................................................................ Vote 150 MPs: 150, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u126	Under art. 50 has a proposal from the MP Elena Guncheva: "Towards Art. 50, para. 1 the text to be amended: to the National Representatives speak only from the tribune...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 51. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 52. Under art. 53 has a proposal from the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 53, para. 4 the words..3 minutes..2 minutes..2 A sentence second is added with the following content: "If 3 lines are made by a given statement, the duplicate time shall be automatically extended to 3 minutes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u127	Here you are, Lord Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u128	Thank you. We also withdraw this text of.. We continue the Change............................................. 53, para. 4 with the same motives as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u129	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. Are there any statements on the texts of art. Art. 50 to art. 53, including? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to voting on the texts proposed by the importer. I apologize. First of all, we are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Elena Guncheva to amend art. 50, para. 1 which is not supported by the Temporary Commission. They voted 151 MPs: 12, against 90, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the texts proposed by the importer in Articles 50, 51, 52 and 53. They voted 161 MPs: 143, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u130	Under art. 54 has a proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 54, para. 1 sentence 2 is added with the following content: "The personal explanation shall be given after completion of the lines and duplicates of a given statement.' The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrey Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 54: Art. 54. (1) The Members of the National Assembly shall have the right to a personal explanation within 2 minutes after speaking in plenary shall be individually and individually affected. (2) The Members of the National Assembly shall be entitled to an explanation of their negative vote within 2 minutes of the vote. (3) The right to explain a negative vote is only this MP who has not spoken during the discussion of the matter. (4) For an explanation of a negative vote, the word shall be given at most to three Members of Parliament, alternately representing different parliamentary groups, if such have been stated. (5) No explanation of a negative vote shall be allowed after a secret vote or after a vote on procedural matters. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 55. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 56. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 57. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I open discussions on the texts of art. Article 54 58 included. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please let us put to the vote the proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs to supplement art. 54, para. 1 which proposal is not supported by the Temporary Commission. Vote 194 MPs: 71, against 60, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. Please proceed to the vote on the texts of Articles 54, 55, 56, 57 and 58 as proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 173 MPs: 150, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u132	Under art. 59 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 59, para. A new sentence shall be added with the following text: The Parliamentary Group shall also be entitled to address a single question to the minister hearing on the current issue on which he himself has requested to be heard, with the questioning lasting up to two minutes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 59: Art. 59. (1) The members of the Council of Ministers shall be entitled to attend the meetings of the National Assembly. At their request, they shall be heard with priority. The President of the National Assembly may determine the time during which the members of the Council of Ministers speak on a particular matter. (2) Each parliamentary group may express an opinion on the subject on which the member of the Council of Ministers has spoken within two minutes when the subject is not included as a item on the agenda. (3) A member of the Council of Ministers, who is present for discussion of a item on the agenda, may take part after receiving the floor from the President. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 60. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 62. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 63. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 64. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u133	I open discussions on members from 59 to 65 inclusive. Hristo Gazhev for a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take account of art. 59 and the proposal that has been made and reflected in the Commission's version. It is about the manner of speaking of the members of the Council of Ministers from the platform of the Assembly on items on the agenda or on extraordinary points. Until the moment when the Minister spoke from this platform, the MPs, that is, the parliamentary groups, had the opportunity to take action on the basis of the speech. But now what is to come when on an agenda item the ministers can speak, but the MPs cannot respond?! In other words, a draft bill, a draft decision, or something else on the agenda, comes the minister, commenting on the speech of the MP, that is, makes a kind of replica of the MP, but the national representative, once he has already spoken, cannot respond to the minister. For the moment, we consider this a problem and therefore I am making an editorial proposal in art. 2 "after" within two minutes "the text" when the issue is not included as a item on the agenda."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u135	Mr. Gazhev, the text will be finished within two minutes and that's it. Thank you. A line to Mr. Gajev? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u136	I'll try not to say it was. There has never been such a signed procedure in the Rules of Procedure before. This is the constitutional text of art. 83 that the ministers can always come to the plenary and when they want the floor, the President of Parliament is obliged to give it to them when he determines the time. With regard to the first and second votes, there are clearly written rules in the Rules of Procedure and clearly defined time for each parliamentary group. You know, for the first vote, there is time for the groups, for the second vote each speaker has the right to justify his proposal within five minutes with the corresponding lines and duplicates. However, with regard to ministers and when they are importers of bills, there is no signed procedure and they do not participate in the first and second voting procedure, you know, the laws. When the first vote is taken, the importer shall be entitled to 10 minutes, and from then on the Rules shall remain silent. Until recently, the practice was usually the importer takes the floor at the end, when the debate ends, so that he can summarize and say, if he wishes, something. In principle, it was not applied until the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. However, the signing of this provision in the Forty-sixth Parliament gave rise to the fact that it began to prolong the parliamentary groups too much time. When the minister comes and starts, if he is at a point, to speak and these two minutes of attitude start constantly piling up, you understand that the group has time and begins to accumulate some two minutes continuously, especially if the ministers are quite dynamic and active in the process. We will see what ministers will be and whether they will want to be included so much in the process, but here the provision and the point is rather to settle when it is not included as a item on the agenda when it comes by accident in the National Assembly. Yes, he comes, starts talking, and then it is appropriate for the respective MP to be able to really express attitude and react. This is what we introduced to the Forty-Sixth National Assembly, which was not there until now. And if it comes on the agenda, the parliamentary groups have time, the minister will be given the appropriate time. Members of the National Assembly may react in the time of the group concerned and in the speaking time and react to the minister concerned. So I think this is the correct procedure, and this is the order in which we should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. For a line, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Miteva, as I take your lines and you have the opportunity to reply later with a duplicate, this will not apply to the ministers. I mean, if your speech went like this, and I was a minister, you wouldn't be able to answer me. That's the situation you're proposing. In other words, what you have introduced as good practice in the regulations that you have proposed in the Forty-Fiveth and Forty-Sixth National Assembly, you now seem to realize that in some way you may have given too many opportunities to the National Assembly and already, as governors, you decide to cancel so that you can ultimately preserve the statements of ministers from comments by the MPs. That is, we are returning to 180 degrees and all the reform of the Rules of Procedure that you have proposed, dear Mrs. Miteva, we are slowly returning to the old situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u139	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u140	I don't think we're going back because we're not canceling that provision. On the contrary, we are further developing it because, as was the provision adopted in the Forty-sixth Parliament, if I had applied it literally and rigorously, I should not have given the floor for reference at the time of the first and second votes on bills or on a item on the agenda. Then we decided to apply the text a little more freely and gave the parliamentary groups a continuous opportunity to be treated. But agree, in a dynamically working parliament where this will lead and how much time will really blow. This thing is not necessary, and that is not the point of the constitutional text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Procedure? Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u142	Mr. President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! I suggest we call off the discussion on this point. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u143	A reverse opinion? There's a reverse opinion from Ekaterina Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u144	Mr. President, with all the proposals being made, perhaps indeed I am not saying that Mrs. Miteva did so with the idea of taking the floor of the MPs, but that is how it comes out, in fact this will come out of this text. Let us not debate directly, change the text, not be able to improve the proposals tabled by the committees and disband the House at all. Not to mention that there is no such procedure as to end the debate at the moment, but you have done so anyway, especially that there was a card raised by Mr. Cholakov. The point of this debate, I think, is to adopt a good rule. Let's not call off the debate just because someone's in a hurry. We're all in the room, we've extended the hours, and let's make a good rulebook that we can work on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u145	It's the way it's supposed to be. You have the floor, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course she's wrong, Mrs. Zaharieva. Everyone's in a hurry to get somewhere. Don't find the debate so fast. It announces Mr. Ananiev's text and you immediately debate. Before you open the debate, ask first if there is a procedure to end the debate and I suggest that my colleague sit here and no one gets up for debate at all. Let's come here for a procedure, we're voting. What does this debate mean? Enough of this debate, please. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u147	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. We are now going to vote on the proposal. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] On the proposal of Iskren Mitev to end the discussion on these texts. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] You have something to say, what if there's an termination? There's a break. We reject it and you have the floor. We vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I've seen you, I've even recorded you, Mr. Cholakov, but we have a proposal under procedure. Vote 197 MPs: 115, against 75, abstention 7. We're calling off the discussion. A statement on a point of order may not be made. The way you're doing it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u148	Mr. Chairman, I am very pleased that the new majority has quickly mastered the procedural grasp. I am also very happy that the fellow Member who has been walking around all the parliamentary groups has come to me twice to ask me to provide the supplier now has come and hastily ended the debate. It is not normal for us to make specific proposals for these Rules when we have made, so that we cannot justify why. Because that's exactly what we had. You have now stopped the opportunity to justify what we want to submit to the Rules. And do not honor the so-called new majority for the new morality. Where's the new morale? Stopping the debate is one of the ugliest things when you don't give the opposition the opportunity to speak. And that's what you did right now. Good for you! Congratulations. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov as an addition to art. 59, para. 2 unsupported by the Temporary Commission. Please vote. They voted 193 MPs: 61, against 97, abstention 35. The motion is rejected. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u150	Mr. Chairman, colleagues. I take the floor for an explanation of a negative vote because my colleagues at the age have not been able to argue with each other. I'm saying why I'm against it, it's actually part of the argumentation, I guess, of the text. What our colleagues have offered us is to mix two procedures. One procedure was: the Minister of his own initiative takes the floor, makes a speech, gives an explanation and each parliamentary group expresses an attitude. If we allow questions to be asked to the Minister, it means entering the procedure de facto by hearing or by blitzcontrol, which is another procedure. And in order not to mix the procedures, I voted against it, and that is why we rejected this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u151	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. We are now going to vote on the editorial proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev for deletion in art. 59, para. 2 of the text: When the topic is not included as a item on the agenda. Please vote. Vote 197 MPs: 66, against 116, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the texts of art. 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64 and 65 including on a proposal from the Temporary Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 133, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under art. 67 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u153	Art. 1st, Art. 66. We've reached art. 65 in the vote. We'll start from art. 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u154	I'm sorry. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 66. Under art. 67 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 67: Art. 67. (1) For the meetings of the National Assembly shall be kept complete stenographic protocols, which shall be drawn up on the day of the meeting or at the latest on the following day. The minutes shall be signed by the stenographers, the two Secretaries on duty and the Chair no later than next week. (2) The printout of the vote through the computerised system and the odd texts under art. 80, para. 1. (3) The stenographic protocols of the plenary sittings, when not closed, shall be published within 7 days on the website of the National Assembly. The audio-visual recording of plenary sessions and the printout of the vote through the computerised system shall be published on the website of the National Assembly at the latest the following day after the meeting. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 68. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I'm opening a discussion on the lyrics. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u156	Colleagues, I withdraw the proposal as the Commission's version is as balanced as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u157	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please proceed to voting on the texts of Articles 66, 67, 68 and 69, as proposed by the Temporary Commission. Vote 155 MPs: 142, against none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u158	Thank you. The Commission supports the text of the draft and the name of Chapter Eight. Under art. 70 has a proposal of the MP Elena Guncheva: "Towards Art. 70 A new paragraph 9 shall be created with the following text: The full texts of the amended and/or repealed provisions of laws shall apply to the bill, indicating the current version of the legal norm in full and in full the new proposal. For the repealed provisions, the text to be repealed shall be indicated in full. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 70. Under art. 71 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 71: Art. 71. (1) The President of the National Assembly shall distribute the bills within three days of their entry between the Standing Committees and shall appoint a leading Standing Committee for each Draft. The relevant Standing Committees and Members of the National Assembly shall be informed immediately of the allocation. (2) The Chair of the committee responsible shall, under bills submitted by Members of the National Assembly, request the opinion of the Council of Ministers or of the relevant minister, as well as of the organisations concerned, including the notification in accordance with Directive (EU) 2015/1535 and of the executive authority competent to draw up the notification documents. The Council of Ministers or the relevant minister shall deliver an opinion within two weeks of its request, unless a reasoned request for an extension of the period which may not be longer than the period under art. 72, para. 3. (3) Under bills governing employment and social security relations, the Chair of the committee responsible shall request an opinion from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. (4) Under bills governing the rights of persons with disabilities, the chairman of the committee responsible requires an opinion from the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. (5) The President of the committee responsible shall, under bills relating to the judiciary, request an opinion from the Supreme Judicial Council. (6) By draft laws relating to the powers of the municipalities, the chairman of the committee responsible requires an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. (7) Citizens and legal persons may submit written opinions on the bills. (8) The opinions under para. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall be published on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly. (9) The lack of opinions under para. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 after the deadline does not stop the discussion of the bills. (10) At the first vote, the committee responsible shall hold a public discussion of the bills, subject to art. 31 and after expiry of the time limits set for opinions. (11) The report of the committee responsible for the first vote shall contain the results of the public discussion and of the verification under art. 72, para. 2 and an assessment of the expected consequences of the implementation of the future law, including the financial law, as well as a summary of the views received and a summary opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u159	I suggest the following members, there are no proposals on them to report them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u160	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 74. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 75.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u161	Thank you. I am opening the discussion on the reported texts. Mrs. Zaharieva first, then Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u162	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'm continuing the discussion yesterday under art. 25, para. 2, which I think, at least I got that impression with the BSP, at least on the statement of Mr. Zarkov and perhaps by "Democratic Bulgaria" as though the idea was accepted after all, when we get to this article, to propose an amendment to para. 10 so that we do not give in to what has been achieved in the previous parliaments, namely the conduct of a public discussion of the bills tabled by MPs, at least to them. Because under the bills submitted by the Council of Ministers, public discussion must be conducted by law. So I'm going to take the liberty of proposing an amendment to para. 10, so that we do not give in to what we all do, I believe that we agreed that it was good practice and even, again, I say, it was not what at least most of us said we should do so as to improve Parliament's work. I propose the following editing of para. 10: The drafts submitted by Members of the National Assembly shall be dealt with in the first vote following a public discussion by the committee responsible, which shall be held after the expiry of the time limits set for opinions. A report shall be prepared for the public discussion with the results thereof, which shall be published on the website of the relevant committee on the website of the National Assembly within three days of its implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u163	Can you give it to me later if you have it written? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u165	In practice, you offer the text under para. 10 to replace with what you offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u166	That is right, to make it clear that it is a public discussion on bills tabled by MPs to be held before the vote at first reading. It is appropriate that the proposal made by Mrs Miteva to take place after the expiry of the deadline for opinions in order to have time for those who will participate in the public discussion to get acquainted with the bill, to provide, if decided, a written opinion, and then the report of the public discussion to be published within three days on the website of the National Assembly, then a voting commission at first reading should be held. That's what I'm actually suggesting with this text. I'll give you the lyrics in a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u167	Thank you. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Slavov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u168	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We will support this proposal because it is in line with the idea that we had proposed by the "Democratic Bulgaria" the current provision simply to change its systematic place without losing the sense of public discussion. This is an important step we have taken in the previous National Assembly, and we cannot afford to step away from it. There must be, of course, process optimization, but not at the expense of principles. So we will support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Another line? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u170	Once again, we return to what is the point of public discussion, so I would like to ask Mrs. Zaharieva by holding this public discussion and the report went on the Parliament website, and for the law of the People's Representative in the public discussion everyone has said: "No, it is not good for anything, will it be watched? What happens next? Or is it just a waste of time for parliament? What is the effect of this public discussion, the public representative must rework it, must re-submit it, or then a few days later the discussion of the first vote starts and the MPs support it, and these same interested parties who are invited to the public discussion are obliged to be invited by the chairman of the committee on the current texts to take part in the committee. That is, a second public discussion will be made again in order to express the same views. What is the point of this first discussion, I do not understand!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Third line? [[The National Representative Rositsa Kirova wants the floor.]] I will give it to BSP for Bulgaria. The statement was from GERB. Mrs. Kirova, then you can take a statement. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Zaharieva! Just like yesterday, I will stress today that the debate is worth it and I will speak to you on the ground. I do not see the difference between the text you are proposing and the text that has been proposed to us. There's no difference at all. The word order is the one used in the other, the previous rules, but it seems to me that this one is more accurate. We are talking about a public hearing after the deadlines have expired for those who have been involved, and the report from this hearing will be part of the report for the first reading, as is the practice. I'm taking the liberty of saying something. The public discussion is just one of its elements, which, as we spoke yesterday, is also intended to give time to the people's representation to discuss the issue from all sides. The public discussion is essentially something much bigger and includes both the debates that are included in the public domain in principle after the introduction of a bill, as well as the discussions at first reading in the Chamber, discussions with stakeholders, NGOs and, in principle, this is a whole process which, unfortunately, was often rushed into speed for one reason or another. Therefore, the public discussion and discussion of this text must also take into account the different deadlines, and they, gentlemen and ladies, must be respected for 72 hours from one, two months from another and so on. And one last thing. The idea of public discussion and the time it takes to arrive at this tribune is to avoid writing texts on it as it is now being proposed. Naturally, I am not saying that you have no right to do so, and your proposal is correct from the point of view of his spirit, but that is how some proposals were made yesterday from here, directly, at the table, at which they do not allow the Members of the National Assembly to consider them well due to lack of time and due to the heated political atmosphere of this House. These are the ideas of all these procedures. They have a deep meaning. I thank you once again for paying attention to this thing. I think that the forty-fiveth and forty-sixth National Assembly introduced this practice, it is currently not going back, on the contrary it is specified to make sense. So I think we should support the text as proposed by the Temporary Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u174	I'm surprised, frankly, by what Mr. Zarkov said, because last night he said something completely different. But it doesn't matter, it's normal a person can change his mind. I will explain what is the point of the public discussion for Mrs Miteva, of this need-to-know discussion, as is the point of public discussion and of the bills of the Council of Ministers. Also, Mr. Zarkov, you say that there would be no time for public discussion, that its purpose was to have time to meet, and at the same time the text you propose gathers the public discussion in the meeting at which the proposed bill is voted at first reading. This is absolutely contrary to what you say. That there must be time to, that there must be time. We're actually improving the last rulebook text. Yes, we give time not to make formal public discussion of the bills tabled by the MPs with the expiry of the deadlines, but to get acquainted with it. Because if we decide to push it, we can submit a bill today and in two days the chairman of the committee will schedule a public discussion. And what will happen to the bill submitted by the National Representative, there are several options as he decided. This does not mean that the bill will not be adopted. Many times in the public discussions of the bills proposed by the Council of Ministers, there are many opinions that the Council of Ministers does not accept, but at least it will need in the report, which will be part of the committee's report, to justify why it was not adopted either in the debate itself, then at first reading. Yes, because there may be unacceptable solutions, unacceptable proposals of this public discussion that contradict the idea of the MP, contradict the spirit and meaning of the law that he has proposed. But let's ban public discussions then, let's get rid of them. We are also a legislative body for the Council of Ministers, because what is the point of them? I'm sorry, but the point of public discussions is to hear interested parties. That is the point of public discussions. The same should apply to the bills tabled by the Members of the National Assembly. I'll propose a text. Of course, the House will decide if it will support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u175	You've even proposed it, Mrs. Zaharieva. We'll wait for the text, but it will be put to the vote. Mrs. Guncheva has the floor, then Mrs. Kirova I announced Mrs. Guncheva immediately with the announcement of Mrs. Zaharieva. Now that we are discussing more than one member, there may be some differences in the discussion, but we will manage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will allow myself to read again the proposal I have tabled, as Mr. Ananiev is having a slight difficulty reading my proposals. [[(Shouting from.. Continue ……]] The full text of the amended and/or repealed provisions of laws shall be applied to the bill, indicating the current version of the legal norm in full and in full the new proposal. For the repealed provisions, the text to be repealed shall be indicated in full. I would ask you to consider this proposal and vote on it, as it is common practice not to be clear from the bills what is changing exactly. Unfortunately, not everyone in this room is a lawyer, not everyone can immediately refer to the law as to what is changing. I agree that there is no such requirement in the Law on Laws, but let us not forget that the same Law on Laws was created at a time when a law has changed once every ten years. Currently, the main laws in Bulgaria are changing 10 times a year and so that very often even lawyers can't follow up on another change. With the proposed amendment in the Rules, we will also enable citizens in public discussion to understand what we are actually proposing, what we are proposing and what the overall text that will be amended is, and therefore I ask you to support this proposal. Despite the ideological differences of the majority, I believe that we still need to be practical, as well as enable Bulgarian citizens to see what we really do in the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. In Mr. Ananiev's defense, there was a typo that made it a little difficult for him. Are there any lines to Mrs. Guncheva's statement or not? Is that a line to Mrs. Guncheva? Excuse me, Mrs. Kirova, sometimes I don't notice when you guys have lines from the same group. Here's a line, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u178	Mrs. Guncheva, I think you should have added that in this proposal there is absolutely no political hue, no games with the quorum or anything related to the activity. Indeed, this is a purely practical text, and if accepted, it will ease the work of people who are not lawyers and anyone who wants to follow directly into one place all the changes. This is a good option, and I also call purely for you to approve it, and not just machine everything from the opposition to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I don't suppose you're gonna get the back. Okay, thanks for that. Mrs. Kirova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to answer a few questions that have been raised here, regardless of who, to make it clear why the amendment proposed by Mrs Zaharieva has its logic. It will continue what was started in the light of clarity, transparency, sufficient awareness of society, so that consideration can be taken mainly after a public discussion, which is envisaged before the first reading of the bill in the committee, and that there are opinions to be taken into account by the MP himself. There may also be opinions to make the Members of the National Assembly think about the way they vote and the reasons behind the bill tabled. First of all, we will avoid lobbying opportunities in the interests of private companies and I think this should be the basis of what we call a desire for change. If there really is, we should keep all the mechanisms for civil society to be as well informed as possible about what is happening in our committees and about the bills proposed by the MPs. In this regard, I would like to stress, Mrs. Miteva, that I am convinced that no matter how many negative opinions there are in connection with the public discussion, if the bill has its rational basis and is related to the protection of the Bulgarian national interest, no Bulgarian MP from this House, led by general populism, will change its bill. However, the opinions of civil society must be heard. The point of this amendment is that the report of the public discussion precedes, I repeat, predates the viewing of first reading in committee and not to be done simultaneously with it. When it precedes the viewing of first reading in the committee, it can be introduced to all Members of Parliament, not only those who are members of the committee concerned and may have an opinion. Agree that our job here is not to rush and not to push everything we do. There is a Bulgarian saying about what the blind bitch, the fast bitch, is giving birth to. I'm sorry to say this, but I think we've seen things like this. I'm only saying this because there's no rushing to solve problems. The practice of the National Assembly shows that I am not a specialist, nor am I a doctor of constitutional law, that before 1944 the people's meetings have mainly discussed and debated, and have not produced laws and bills on a knee or on a helmet, because the guarantee of a stable development of the state is the stable legislation that does not change every day. So it is nice to hear the opinions of both civil society and the MPs without hysteria and without unnecessary haste. I sincerely hope to address you, I address my fellow Members on the left, I address my colleagues at the centre, I turn to my colleagues on the right, that we will accept this amendment and enable the implemented practices of the forty-fiveth and forty-sixth National Assembly, which only aimed at maximum publicity in the work of the National Assembly, to be able to be preserved in the form in which we can work and give citizens the maximum opportunity to participate in this process in the way provided for in the law. I hope we vote on the amendment proposed by Mrs. Zaharieva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Is there another line? Mr. Svilenski's line, and Mrs. Miteva's line two.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kirova, I am making a line because I am impressed that in this debate are expressed MPs with less parliamentary experience on the topic on which it is spoken. We are all aware that in the National Assembly, every member of the National Assembly who introduces a bill does not do so, because in the morning he has had a light for a longer time, and to propose a change in the Law on Road Traffic?! The idea is for the MPs to have this legislative initiative after having made these preliminary discussions after meeting with their constituents, after meeting with the sectors they concern to write the bill and bring it to the plenary, and then to examine it in the parliamentary committee. This practice, which GERB imposed for 12 years the ministers to miss public discussion and to submit texts to MPs to bring them in and watch them from yesterday to tomorrow, will no longer happen and this is the guarantee of the future coalition, which will govern and manage Bulgaria. You can rest assured that this type of legislation will no longer exist. It's part of the change! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] This was your government's problem that you offered the laws, that you offered corruption, that you offered the bad things in the legislation. This thing will never happen again, so don't delay the legislative process. The Members of the National Assembly are sufficiently literate, the committees can work, meet and they will decide which bill to adopt, and the opinions must, of course, move along with the viewing of the bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line.. Mrs. Miteva, then duplicate and speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u184	I would like to make it clear that we do not want there to be no public discussion, and that is not the objective, but, on the contrary, all the amendments to the Rules are in this direction. We are talking here mainly about bills, colleagues who are adopted in two votes, and we are not talking about decisions and acts of one vote. When doing this public vote, as you wish, I told you that it is said: the bill does not work, but what happens next? I see several ministers from GERB's cabinet and they know very well the practice and procedure in the Council of Ministers. When it is said that the bill is not working or that there is a problem, it comes back for revision, processing or not being imported at all, and only when it meets the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts does it enter the Council of Ministers. This is because matter is diverse, because institutions are diverse, because everyone gives their opinions and this is normal, but when the people's representative has introduced his bill to the National Assembly, what more is there to discuss?! It entered the Commission for a first vote and the institutions concerned had deadlines for all to give their views. If they wanted to, they would have done so, they were published on the website of the National Assembly, and they are obliged separately in the case of bills submitted by MPs, the Council of Ministers and ministers to give opinions. This legal opportunity, which was recently abolished, is an imperative. Separately, the National Association of Municipalities was given the opportunity to give opinions the door is open absolutely wide to all interested institutions. When these opinions are given, they shall invite the chairman of the committee to attend the meetings, and if they so wish, they shall come and nothing shall be held at the same meetings. Then you have deadlines between the first and the second vote, within these deadlines you will now accurately take account of all these opinions and you can bring the bill into line with everything that has been said. I don't understand this desire to do the same procedure twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Third line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kirova, I will very kindly tell you something I do not wish to say, because when we adopt the Rules, we must discuss it in substance. You have allowed yourself to mislead the House, perhaps because you are currently acting as Vice-President. You are also in this Parliament, in the previous Parliament, and in the Forty-four you were not. You did not vote in the Forty-fourth Parliament budget at four and a half o'clock in the morning, proposed and voted by your parliamentary group and your party with one goal only to hide their proposals from the people, the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, and therefore voted in the small hours of the night. This is correct when we need to mention who did what or how a person from your parliamentary group - Danail Kirilov - changed to knee legislation at 12:30. Therefore, I call on you best to debate on the substance, but not to say who has done what, because these practices, my dear Mrs. Kirova, have been on your parliamentary group for almost 12 years. I've been telling you this for almost 12 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to be brief, and to begin with the practices of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, which I have not attended and have not participated in. All bad practices of the Thirty-eighth, Thirty-Sixth or Forty-first National Assembly should not be copied and applied in the Forty-Seventh People's Assembly, because otherwise the claim of change means a change to something worse and not particularly nice. As for the vows and the promise we received from the first replicator, the pledge of allegiance is usually given when a civil marriage or an engagement is made. However, I will allow myself not to trust the vow of allegiance and the vow of change and I will want to see real and concrete actions in this direction. I believe that in order for there to be such ones, it is necessary to describe them with clear and precise rules that everyone will follow. And to the second replicator, I'm going to respond one more time because twice it didn't become clear and maybe the third time it will become clear. The purpose of public discussion is one and it is very simple: to make public discussion before watching the first reading of the bill in committee. I repeat again, before watching the report from the public discussion on the pages of the National Assembly and the committee so that they can get acquainted with it a wider range of citizens because we are talking about bills imported by individual MPs. I have heard a practice quoted here when certain bills have been given to MPs so that they can be voted quickly without the relevant discussions. Is that what you want, ladies and gentlemen, young people of change? If that is what you want, do not vote on the text proposed by Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. If you want maximum control and transparency of the actions of the National Assembly, I address you [[to the parliamentary group of.. We continue the Change.]] , vote on this change. It does not bite, it is not dangerous, but will allow more people to participate in this process and really civil society to be aware of what is happening in the committees and in the Chamber of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u189	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kirova. Mr. Cholakov and then Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Let me read you a text, a quote. Some will know where it came from. The people's will, as expressed in the laws, must be firm and permanent, because the laws must also be cool and determined, not the work of whimsicalness of the minute. And in order for the laws to be the result of deeply explained reasons and goals, they must be the product of sound consideration and comprehensive consideration. But he asks himself: Is such an examination possible when it will be done only in one place, when they will consider only those who embody the unexplained or the only desires that are made clear? If, in order to shine any truth, the opposite of opinions is needed, this is even more necessary for the case of the laws. This is Todor Ikonomov speech at the Constitutional Assembly in Veliko Tarnovo when the Tarnovo Constitution was adopted. His speech is actually addressed to the creation of the Senate, but it also speaks of the strength of the laws. Colleagues, this country is not from yesterday and it doesn't start today. With Mrs. Miteva in the 45th meeting, with Mr. Slavov, too, we also had the opportunity to share with other colleagues the thoughts that we are of the same opinion that the laws should finally start to become cool and the legislation of being lasting.... what Mrs. Guncheva spoke about, whose opinion I also share. There is a difference between the way in which the Council of Ministers introduces laws and the way in which they submit laws to the Members of the National Assembly. The Council of Ministers has the expertise of the entire state administration once, and a second time they have the opportunity and are obliged to make public discussions by law. It seems to me that MPs should not make exceptions as in other respects, such as the green certificate, say. We must not make an exception that our legislative procedure must follow different rules, that we are smarter and must act faster. What is proposed in the current version, colleagues, in practice implies that the law or bill of the MP, being put to reading, is to be discussed by selected public organisations to be invited at first reading, to be heard, and in general they will most likely support because they have been explicitly invited, and the voice of society will not be heard. I, my colleagues, as a Member of the National Assembly, have no problem. On the contrary, I insist, if I propose a bill, that it be uploaded on the website of the National Assembly and get all possible points of view, because I do not believe that I am a genius, I do not believe that I am right, I do not believe that what I have said is the most true, and I do not think that my bill would be better than the draft of the Council of Ministers and to go on a separate procedure just because I am a people's representative and this is written in the Constitution, and another procedure is envisaged for the Council of Ministers. Look at something I've seen, living in the West and seeing Western practice, I hope that we will have the opportunity to talk about this many times from now on, colleagues: in the Western parliaments, in the English, in the German, I suppose, and in the American, the laws, please check, believe me, are accepted as a rule by consensus. As a rule! So this procedural catch, floating or I don't know what majorities, or at all majorities, to impose willpower, is not a European practice. This does not support the durability of legislation. And I'll say the last sentence. Look, we're good people, we're good people, we're good people, try to believe. Do not think that just because we are in this part of the Chamber, every proposal we make is intended to block, sabotage or hinder. No, we aim to really make this legislation permanent and stable, and public discussions are just a step in this direction. Thank you for your attention. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS and shouting:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Cholakov. - What's the line? Mr. Zarkov, first line... [[Reply from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] Let's run out of procedure first and then, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Cholakov, thank you for taking this topic to you I can be as sharp as I wouldn't afford to be with the ladies otherwise. Dear Mr. Cholakov, ladies and gentlemen of GERB! In the last two days you have allowed yourself several times to mock and make remarks to those who speak in this House of the majority. Now I'm going to tell you as opposition: you're oversolding the food and from a serious topic you're making a cartoon! That's what you did yesterday when Mr. Bachiiski offered a text not good enough to be accepted, but you made it almost as if arresters would come here and so on. Now you're doing the same thing. Mrs. Zaharieva, before that Mrs. Kirova, raised an important issue. That question in the Rules is answered very clearly. [[Replication by National Representative Rositsa Kirova.]] I'll explain as much as I can. It says: The committee responsible is holding a public discussion at the first vote. "The question Mrs Zaharieva put is whether it should not be the first vote of the committee itself. No, you don't. It must be sufficiently clear, sufficiently public and at a time that is appropriate, before the first vote in this House, which is important, because the Committee is only giving an opinion on this House, public or non-public discussion. And it's not about continuing what forty-five and forty-six did, it's about stopping what forty-four did. I think you're catching the slightest difference. Last word. With regard to procedural catch-ups and that in other parliaments around the world consensus and so on. That's not true. Everywhere there are procedural moves, everywhere parliamentaryism is a type of struggle, strategy, tactics, opposition, ruling, dominance and so on. What you're doing right now is a procedural gesture. It's their right, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and it's our duty to resist. Without the rules today, we must not leave this room. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u193	Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I've been here all day, unlike some colleagues who have failed the quorum. I haven't been away for a minute, listening to all kinds of things, but I have a specific line to Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Cholakov, where were you when GERB in the Forty-fourth Parliament during the Food Act amended the Nuclear Energy Act? [[Reply from the National Representative Hamid Hamid: Anow!??]] Where were you when during the Financial Audit Act GERB changed eight other laws, introduced tax changes, introduced new powers of the Specialized Court? Why didn't you get up here and tell them what Mr. Ikonomov said? Then why didn't you take the floor to say that these are bad parliamentary practices? Where were you? Then why did you keep quiet, and now you're telling me such nice democratic words? Because, Mr. Cholakov, I have a feeling that now the goal is to waste time not to adopt the parliamentary regulations today. Otherwise you, if you wanted to comply with democratic procedures, then you should have reacted. Then, Mr. Cholakov, you kept quiet, and now you say how important it is to have a public discussion about how important it is to follow the rules. The people who broke the rules most were your parliamentary group. It was a tradition that during the transitional and final provisions the most important changes would happen so that people would deliberately be misled, not to understand. And that's what you put into practice. So, please, in this case, let's make good rules. We know what you've been doing, we know what you've been doing, let's not waste Parliament's time completely on purpose, because that's why this is all about. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS, applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u195	Please rest in the hall. Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Please, no calls from the gym! I would like to remind you that we have already made a decision that without Rules we will not leave today. Is there a third line? I can't see. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Cholakov, then Mr. Genov for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u196	Mr. Dimitrov, to tell you the truth, now you've wasted time because I wouldn't have taken the back if you hadn't made that statement away from the problem. I don't understand exactly what you accused me of and what you were saying. We are not talking about putting forward proposals and I am not talking about putting forward proposals between first and second readings. We are talking about public discussions on the so-called private bills tabled by MPs before first reading. That's why we talk all the time. Colleagues, Todor Ikonomov, the quote I read you, about these words was ridiculed, but ugly was ridiculed, he was mocked. By the way, it has ended badly, although it is one of the main Conservatives, builders of modern Bulgaria, and this is recognized 100 years later. It's okay. This has happened in Bulgarian history. Again, Bulgaria has not started today and we have precedents for everything. Read history, go to the library, read parliamentary history. There's everything we do here that's already been done, and we know how what ends. What we have been talking about, fellow Members, is do we want to hear more citizens' opinions, do we want to hear more points of view on what we are doing? We do. If we want to do it, let's do it the way Mrs. Zaharieva suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Genov has a word for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We see that the debates have passed and have crossed the limits of the debates that must be held in this House. All these debates had to be made in the Commission, which has drawn up the proposal for the Rules, and I therefore propose that we put an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u199	Is there a reverse opinion? [[Reply by National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva.]] Now I will put this proposal to a vote, but since I have already announced Mrs Tsoneva, if we accept an end to the debate, she will be given the right to speak. I put to the vote Mr. Genov's motion to end the debate. Vote 170 MPs: 107, against 61, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. As I announced, I give the floor to Mrs. Tsoneva to speak. It is the last one to make a statement, but of course the procedure includes lines and dots. Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I would like to make a statement on art. The 70th edition of Elena Guncheva's proposal. I think it needs to be supported. This is a sensible text enabling citizens and non-governmental organisations, above all, to know how legislation is adopted and how legislation is being amended. In this regard, in my opinion, the National Assembly must go even further and in the context of the words of the Revival Todor Ikonomov, in order to know exactly how the people's will is embodied and how cool the laws are. Namely, not only what proposals are being made to be in full text, but when the law or amendment is adopted, by a change in the Official Journal of the European Union, should be updated and published free of charge, accessible to Bulgarian citizens. In the Forty-Fiveth Parliament, we tabled such a bill, but the time has not come for it to be examined. Now we will do it again precisely so that citizens can know how cool the laws we make are.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u201	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsoneva. Are there any lines to that statement? Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u202	Dear Mrs. Tsoneva, I will support your statement that the laws in Bulgaria are very cool so that almost no one can navigate them anymore. I would stress that Bulgaria is perhaps the only country in which the laws are not its property. Currently in Bulgaria, if someone wants to see the current laws, their amendments, amendments and case law, he has to pay for the legal program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Tsoneva? No. That concludes the debate and moves on to a vote. First, I put to the vote Mrs. Guncheva's proposal under art. 70. They voted 185 MPs: for 85, against 63, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. [[Replys:.]] Re-vote, please. They voted 188 MPs: 84, against 74, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. The next vote is on Mrs. Zaharieva's proposal on para. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 73. Do you want me to try to read it? [[Replys: No.]] No. I think it's clear what Mrs. Zaharieva has to offer. I put to the vote its proposal by which to effectively replace the text of para. 10. They voted 185 MPs: for 69, against 93, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the following articles to the vote: art. 70 by importer; 71 in the version of the Commission; Art. 72 by importer; art. 73 in the version of the Commission; art. 74 by importer; 75 by importer; and name. I'm waiting for colleagues from GERB-SDS, but apparently they're failing. I can't wait any longer. [[The representatives of GERB-SDS are in the Chamber, but do not vote.]] They voted 144 MPs: 129, against 8, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u204	Under art. 76 has a proposal from the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 76 is (5) The drafts shall be dealt with in the first vote following a public discussion by the committee responsible and the publication of a report with the results thereof on the website of the committee concerned on the website of the National Assembly. The report shall be published within three days of the hearing. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 78. Under art. 79 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 79 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. The third sentence of paragraph 1 shall be the words "as adopted as inadmissible proposals and the reasons for this shall be entered in the report under para. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (b) in para. The second sentence is amended as follows: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 79. Under art. 80 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 80: Art. 80. (1) The National Assembly shall discuss and vote on the draft laws of the second vote chapter by chapter, section by section or text by text. Where no written proposals have been made, or by decision of the National Assembly, the texts shall not be read in the Chamber. In this case, the texts shall apply to the stenographic protocol as part of it. (2) In the second vote shall be discussed only proposals of Members of the National Assembly which have been received in accordance with art. 79 as well as proposals from the committee responsible, included in her report. Editorial or technical amendments are also eligible. Proposals contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote shall not be discussed and voted on by a decision of the National Assembly. (3) A Member of the National Assembly may justify proposals made within 5 minutes for each proposal. (4) The vote shall take place in accordance with art. 63. During the vote, no speeches, new proposals and procedural questions are allowed. Only the proposals of Members of the National Assembly, which have been adopted in accordance with Article 1, shall be voted on. 79, proposals by the committee responsible, editorial or legal and technical amendments made during the discussion, as well as proposals to reject or postpone a text. (5) When the rapporteur, when reporting the second vote bill in plenary, read a text with a content other than the proposal in the committee responsible's report, without making an editorial or legal amendment to the order envisaged, the text proposed in the committee's report shall be put to the vote. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 81. The Commission supports the text pa The project for art. 82. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 83. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 84. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 85.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u205	I'm opening a discussion. Here's your speech, Mr. Petrov. You're next, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After reading the proposed version of art. 80, para. 1 and para. 2, I see two scandalous innovations that are proposed to be made in the Rules of the National Assembly. For example, in art. 80, para. 1 The possibility of not reading the texts of the proposed draft laws in plenary shall be introduced. By this logic, colleagues, we can go even further to accept that by decision of the National Assembly we will not vote. To write that these bills have been adopted. Why should we even vote them, then?! Let's be even more innovative. I'm addressing my colleagues from the ruling coalition. Next in para. 2 again an offer that I do not understand. The proposals that contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote are not discussed and voted on by a decision of the National Assembly. I think that the introductions of the bill thus extend the freedom of decisions of the National Assembly that can be taken, and I can even think of yesterday, of a case when we were arguing about the time has expired or not. We can include, by this logic, to be even more innovative and to include that, by decision of the National Assembly, we can decide that at the moment it is not 13,14, but it is 11,14. Same logic. If it's possible by the National Assembly's decision to do so. So far, you've been in the circle of the joke. My proposal, honourable Members, is in the opposite direction that this proposal should not be accepted. To remain the old version of art. 80, para. 1 and para. 2 as currently present. Because I find such proposals really scandalous, and I see no point at least for our parliamentary group, if they are adopted, to stay here and continue with the adoption of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Mr. Hamid, then Mr. Popov, and then Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for your word. About the same topic for the first subparagraph of art. 80. We don't have to call it scandalous. Here the problem is in the rest of the union.... or only.................. only........................ Colleagues, I understand the logic of importers. She's right, but this alliance is ambiguous. I think that instead of... or........... and the text comes into place. When there are no messages received, the texts are not read and are not read since 10 Parliaments. That's normal. However, it is already possible, when proposals have been received, whether they have been accepted or rejected by a committee, to still not be read by a decision of the National Assembly. It's just the alliance or the alliance that's stuck. Let's replace it with... and the text comes into place. Otherwise, my colleague is right that the failure to read any proposals that have already been made... [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, MPs have computers, tablets, they take them out, they watch who's done what, and there's no need for that reading. But what's going on out there? What about the public contract? There are doctors in constitutional law here and they will explain that once signed in quotes, the treaty between the sovereign and the MPs under this treaty has feedback, if I am not mistaken. The sovereign controls all the time what's going on here, and if he doesn't know what's on the outside, he doesn't hear it, but hears only one number on the article or paragraph, I don't think it's right. I think an amendment to the union will solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u209	Mr. Hamid, can you just tell me one more time where exactly?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u210	Mr. Chairman, in art. 80 by the Commission's Directorate-General, the Union, or the Union, after the proposals, shall...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u211	Just tell me what paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u212	First subparagraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u213	First subparagraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u214	"Or" is replaced by "S" is replaced by "S" is replaced by "S" is
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u215	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u216	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u217	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u218	I would agree, Mr Hamid, with you if any proposals that have been submitted to the National Assembly, whether supported or not, are read in plenary as they were read many years ago. Because maybe you'll agree with me, the people outside that you're addressing for 10 members won't hear anything about them, but one of them will hear about who's not supported. I do not understand how they will see the link between the texts, between the proposals made by the MPs, and how will they ever be able to understand what is happening in the entire bill? Makes sense if you're gonna read it, read it all. What should have been done years ago in the National Assembly was simply to run the texts on a monitor, the MPs and the people who watch, to see them and thus to understand what they were talking about. Because here for years we've seen some people trying to read from the stands, some people reading reports, and not just that. This time for those who read the reports is given to them for plenary time. That is, you, who have spoken and spoken on the substance, are eventually very short of time, if you have not been chairman of a committee, unlike the committee chairmen who have just read some reports. Therefore, here in this case, the proposal is that when there is a decision of the National Assembly, it has so far been, if there is an objection, it should also end with an act of parliament that these texts should not be read, but at the same time the debate remains. Members of the National Assembly shall have the right to debate lines, duplicates, i.e. the entire procedure shall be retained. Just save time from a monotonous reading of a text and it will not be done for all the laws. My idea was originally about laws relating to the introduction of European Union law, because in many of the laws we have mainly legal and technical editorials, as well as here in the Rules, by the way, we have seen today, and they are simply repeated, some huge texts are read because of a few corrections. As regards the second subparagraph. Here the idea is to add by decision of the National Assembly. The National Assembly is the only body that can decide whether the texts are outside the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote and this is the direction of constitutional decisions which have been issued so far. Such a decision will be taken in the relevant committee, such a decision must also be taken in plenary. If there is such a decision of the committee concerned, or even if there is not, it is right for the National Assembly, once again on a proposal from the Members of the National Assembly, to decide that the texts are outside the principles and scope of the adopted bill. It's not a job just for the committee to propose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. For a line, Mr. Gadget? Third line? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u220	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Hamid, first of all, let's hope that if you do not read or remain so, there are no people with special needs in parliament who cannot read or see what the texts say, because then somehow we restrict these rights. This is not a remark to you, but to the importers of this proposal. Otherwise, on the proposal itself, I think that an hour ago and something you made a note of, if any representative of the majority could sit here and end the debate immediately. This is the institutionalization of this proposal of yours. And third, I would like to draw your attention to the second proposal in para. 2 that by decision of the National Assembly proposals which contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote are not discussed and voted, but the National Assembly decides. But he may not decide, as you know. And that means that everything that, for example, bothered Mr. Martin Dimitrov in the previous text, could actually become a reality again and the opening of this loophole to return some practices on which some people declared against.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. After all, should I ask for a third line if someone was provoked? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Miteva, the logic of the texts on which there are no proposals not to be read is that they are already imported and discussed at first reading, discussed publicly and there is no need to read again. Your argument that if we read the texts that are rejected or new, we will save time, it is not very accurate because, as you said, the debate remains. The MP who has not heard the proposal will come out again to read it, that is, this saving does not play any role. We can't save anything. Therefore, let these texts remain, for we risk some suggestions to appear between first and second readings, if you remember at the Forty-fourth National Assembly in the Bee Act........................................................................................! People out there won't know anything. And if the National Assembly takes and hides these proposals from society, from the other MPs, no one will know when through the bees we have made a decision about the nuclear power plant or changed nuclear energy. Do not close the National Assembly to society! Don't hang up! This will not help you to restore parliamentaryism, on the contrary, only complicate the parliamentary process further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. The word is Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u224	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This text has also been discussed in the Commission, of course, here in the National Assembly, as you can see. This is not the purpose of the text which has been presented so far. The aim was really to save Parliament parliamentary time, i.e. the texts, the adoption of the law really to go faster. But since there are obstructions in reading this text and in order to avoid speculation, I am making an editorial proposal according to the text of art. 80, para. 1: after the union... or by decision of the National Assembly.... or by appeal.................................. or by decision of the National Assembly......................................................................................................................... You can see that we have, I think, the absolute will in no way to speculate on the possibility of getting acquainted with the MPs and at the second reading of the bills, with the proposals and so on, all these arguments that we have heard from the right side of the Chamber. So, Mr. President, this is my proposal: the statement of the National Assembly's decision to replace it with the...................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u225	Okay. Thank you. Is there any line to that statement? I can't see. The word is Mr. Slavov and then Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u226	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Since the editing of art. 73, para. 10 for the public discussion, and the text we proposed was for a systematic change of place from art. 25, para. 2 to art. 76, I have to withdraw this text, again stressing that "Democratic Bulgaria" has always supported and will support effective public consultations before the exercise of a legislative initiative and the voting of the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u227	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I don't think so. To speak, Mrs. Kirova. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u228	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to start with what Mr. Slavov withdrew just now, and this is the editorial in art. 76 where he systematically found the place of al. 2, which dropped by the previous vote, was rejected and was dropped on the proposal of the importers Mrs. Iva Miteva and Mr. Andrey Mihailov, from art. It was al. 2. It is wonderful that colleagues on the right will always be and will support public discussions and it is even more beautiful that the possibility of such being cut off is cut off. Perhaps this will be the way this Parliament will work. I'm not surprised, nor am I surprised. It doesn't bother me. The Bulgarian society has gone through many such periods and I suppose we will impose such a practice again. What I'm trying to say about the editorial amendment of art. 80, which was proposed by Mr. Hamid, I support. I would also like to propose an editorial amendment, which I think will give us at least a second reading of the bills to listen to, to hear more and to make decisions that are based not on commands from space or from the party headquarters, but on our personal conscience, something that should be at the heart of the people's representation and of everyone present here. So I suggest that the amendment be as follows: I do not know why the words of the original text are dropped: to remain the word............................................................................................ I can read it to you: The National Assembly discusses and votes the bills of the second vote chapter by chapter, section by section or text by text. When there are no written proposals and objections made and at the decision of the National Assembly, the texts are not read in the Chamber. I propose this editorial amendment. Do you understand me, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u229	Yeah, I got it. Should I ask only after what we add to the proposals and objections?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u230	I want you to stay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u231	So, and then do both of them suit you, or do we want you to replace it with the one you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u232	No, I agree with the National Assembly's decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u233	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u234	Because if it is or is, it makes two-dimensional sense, and it could be by a decision of the National Assembly that neither the texts on which proposals are made nor the tests on which there are objections, which de facto brings us back in one period, I do not know what. I have enough life experience, but I am trying to understand what is really happening in this Chamber and why everything that is named Bulgarian lawyers with an enviable biography and titles in the sphere of constitutional law have been able to introduce in the Forty-Fiveth and Sixth National Assembly, now absolutely systematically cancel and make a radical change to the Rules! Colleagues, I'm an education philologist. The Union has different meanings, not only meanings. So let's focus on the details, because they're important. The rules will determine how we will work in the National Assembly in the next two months, five, year, two, three, God forbid, and four. It should enable us to work in a way that is as transparent as possible, and I appeal for it again. Much of the colleagues who vote anblok as they are told, unfortunately, because I have followed the way of voting, perhaps they do not have enough life experience to consider that all those traps and ruses that we bet... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u235	I'm done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u236	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u237	...to silence those who think differently, at some point they can be applied to us ourselves. Bad practice. Let's not repeat it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Procedure... And we have to joke every once in a while, I get it. We will call off the debate and move on to the vote. Mr. Slavov withdrew his proposal, so we are going to vote on the proposal of Mrs. Miteva and Mr. Mihailov under art. 79. Vote 192 MPs: 128 against 56, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposals under art. 80 in the order of entry. First, I shall put to the vote Mr Hamid's proposal: the Union shall be replaced by the Union in art. 80, para. 1, so that the text can be done by decision of the National Assembly and by decision of the National Assembly. They voted 188 MPs: 66, against 84, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr Popov's proposal, as the text, if I have understood it correctly, is to replace it by a decision of the National Assembly. Isn't that right, Mr. Popov? [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] That's right. Please, vote procedure. Vote 194 MPs: 151 against 28, abstention 15. In this situation, Mrs. Kirova, would you like to say if the proposal you have just adopted fits into yours?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u239	The proposal I have just adopted fits what I have proposed, and I am withdrawing my proposal. Thanks to Mr. Popov for his support, we'll still be able to hear the second reading texts. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u240	Yeah, if there's a difference, but once you withdraw it, it stays the way we accepted it. Just a second. [[Definitions between President Christian Vigenin and the National Representative Plamen Petrov.]] With an apology, I guess we didn't get along, but I still have to put it to the vote despite the correction we made. A proposal has been made. 1 and 2 remain in the text so far, i.e. in the form in which the text so far is. I still have to put this to the vote. Please, vote procedure. I have missed that such a proposal has been made by Mr. Petrov, yet we must vote on it. [[Noise and lines.]] However, you understand, we can reject it. Mr. Petrov still deserves to vote on this proposal. They voted 188 MPs: for 73, against 57, abstention 58. The proposal is not accepted, but in practice the meaning has already been accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 76 by importer, art. Art. 77, Art. Art. 78, Art. 79 with the adopted version with the proposal of Mrs. Miteva and Mr. Mihailov, which we accepted, art. 80 in the version we adopted and respectively Articles 81, 82, 83, 84, 85 by importer. Vote 171 MPs: 160 against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u241	Under art. 86 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 86: Art. 86. (1) Reports under art. 84, p. 16 and 17 of the Constitution shall contain a report on the activities of the law enforcement body during the relevant period, the problems and difficulties it encounters, including the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly in the discussion of the previous report, as well as of the recommendations given by the Court of Auditors. (2) The activity report of the Court of Auditors shall contain a report to implement the recommendations of the Commission under art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and the outstanding recommendations given to the audited bodies shall be specified. (3) The reports shall be submitted to the National Assembly by 31 March, unless another time limit is laid down in law, and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. (4) Reports under art. 84, p. 16 and 17 of the Constitution shall be distributed by the President of the National Assembly to the relevant competent committee within three days of their entry, of which he shall inform the Members of the National Assembly without delay. (5) The Commission shall discuss the report under para. 1 no later than 15 days of its distribution and submit its opinion to the President of the National Assembly and propose a draft decision on the report. The draft decision may also contain recommendations to the body whose activity is being discussed. (6) The report under para. 1 shall be included on the National Assembly's agenda within one month of its submission to the National Assembly and shall be dealt with no later than three months. (7) The report under art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution shall be discussed after the National Assembly has heard the opinion of the committee and the statement of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, respectively the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Prosecutor General within 10 minutes. The discussion continues with the speeches of MPs, which may also contain questions to the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, respectively the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Prosecutor General, who is obliged to answer them. In the discussion of the report, the Members of the National Assembly may also raise questions received in writing from citizens, institutions and civil organisations in relation to the report to which the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, respectively the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Prosecutor General, shall answer. (8) The report under art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution shall be discussed after the National Assembly has heard the opinion of the committee and the presentation of the importer within 10 minutes. The discussion continues with the speeches of MPs, which may also contain questions to the importer who is obliged to answer them. (9) During the discussion of the report under para. 1 Members of the National Assembly may make proposals for amendments and additions to the draft decision proposed by the Commission. (10) The importer shall take account of the proposals and recommendations made. (11) The proposals of the Members of the National Assembly under para. 9 shall be voted in accordance with Article 9. 63. (12) A decision shall be adopted on the report. The National Assembly may accept or reject the report of the importer under art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution. When rejecting the report, the National Assembly motivates its decision. Under art. 87 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 87: Art. 87. At the decision of the National Assembly, adopted at the request of one tenth of the MPs or of a parliamentary group, or at its own initiative, the Prosecutor General shall submit to the National Assembly and other reports on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the enforcement of the law, the countering of crime and the realization of criminal policy. The reports shall be subject to art. 86..................................................................... Under art. 88 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 88: Art. 88. (1) The National Assembly may require the submission of a report by an authority under art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution and on individual matters of its activity on a proposal from a parliamentary group, of the relevant Standing Committee or of one tenth of the Members of the National Assembly. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The National Assembly shall determine the questions, the period to which the report relates and the period for its submission. (3) For the reports shall apply respectively art. 86.....................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u242	Colleagues, I am opening the discussion on the texts proposed by the Temporary Committee. Are there any speeches on the proposed texts of art. Art. 86, Art. Art. 87, Art. 88? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please proceed to the vote on the texts of Articles 86, 87 and 88 proposed by the Temporary Commission. I'm calling off the vote. The 121st vote came in after the first minute. We are re-voting the proposed texts of Articles 86, 87 and 88 on a proposal from the Temporary Commission. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u243	Under art. 89 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 89, para. 8 After the words of the National Assembly, an annex to the Rules of Procedure shall be added. Sentence number two is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 89: Art. 89. (1) The President of the National Assembly shall present at the first session a reference for the bodies elected in whole or in part by the National Assembly and whose mandates have expired or expire during the respective session. (2) The National Assembly shall elect, in whole or in part, the bodies under para. 1 after a public procedure. (3) Any Member of the National Assembly may propose candidates unless otherwise provided for in law or rules of procedure. Applicants shall be proposed within 14 days of the adoption of the procedural rules unless otherwise provided for in law or in the procedural rules. Proposals for selection together with a biographical reference and documents relating to the requirements for internship, education and other required documents shall be published on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing, subject to the requirements for the protection of personal data, unless otherwise provided for in a law or in the rules of procedure. (4) Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions on the applicant to the Commission no later than three days before the hearing, including questions to be addressed to the Commission. The media may send to the committee questions to the candidate to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Questions shall be communicated to candidates in writing no later than 24 hours before the start of the hearing. Opinions shall be published on the website of the National Assembly within three days of receipt of them, subject to the requirements for the protection of personal data. (5) The proposals for selection shall be considered by a Standing Committee of the National Assembly, which shall hear candidates who shall comply with the requirements of the law, and the Chair of the Commission shall be obliged to invite the applicant to respond to those appointed under para. Four questions. The Commission shall submit a report which summarises the outcome of the hearing. The hearing is public. (6) The report under para. 5 contains the Commission's conclusion on the fulfilment of the minimum legal requirements for taking up the post by each of the candidates, as well as on the existence of data which question the moral qualities of the applicant, his competence, qualifications, experience and professional qualities. The report shall also take into account the existence of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant concerned. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. The report shall also contain information on questions raised to each candidate that the applicant has not answered. (7) The report under para. 5 shall be made available to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 72 hours before the start of the meeting at which the nominations will be voted and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. (8) The National Assembly shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the relevant committee, as well as the procedure for their election by the National Assembly. The draft rules shall be drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly by the committee responsible for each election. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 90.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u244	Dear Members of Parliament, I am opening the discussion on the texts proposed by the Temporary Committee of Articles 89 and 90. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev to amend art. 88, para. 8, which is an unsupported proposal by the Temporary Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 19 against 85, 40 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the texts of Articles 89 and 90 proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u245	The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter 9a. The Commission shall support the text of the draft name of Section I. Under art. 91 has a proposal from the MP Hristo Gajev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 91: Art. 91. (1) Members of the National Assembly shall address to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or to a Minister issues of an up-to-date nature which are of public interest and shall be in their portfolio of management or affect the activities of their administration. (2) Questions shall be addressed to the Prime Minister concerning the activities of the government or its administration. Under art. 92 there is a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. 1 in the sixth sentence, the following text shall be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. 1 in the sentence 7th, the figure 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. The following text shall be added in sentence 8 after the text:................................................................................................................................................ 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. 5 the figure The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Hamid Hamid, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 92: Art. 92. (1) The questions shall be addressed through the President of the National Assembly in writing at the latest 72 hours before the beginning of the meeting to which the ministers should answer. The questions must be precise and clearly formulated, contain no personal attacks and insulting qualifications, contain a single issue and be signed by the MP. Where a Member of the National Assembly asks a question summarised by meetings and requests of civil organisations and citizens, this may be noted in the written question. The answer may be oral or written. The answer shall be written where the national representative has expressly expressed a written wish to do so when a question concerning personal rights or interests is raised or where the questions referred contain requests for detailed numerical data. The written response period is 7 days. A Member of the National Assembly who asks an oral question may request in writing a change of the type of response in writing by 18:00 of the day preceding parliamentary control. The time limit for the written reply shall be 7 days from the day of the request of the change and shall not be postponed by the Minister, except in the cases referred to in para. 3. The questions and answers to them shall be submitted in paper form and in electronic form or in full electronic form, such as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures, shall be registered in a public register without delay, and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly in the section "Parliamentary control" in compliance with the requirements for the protection of personal data. (2) The President of the National Assembly shall immediately inform the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister of the questions received and of the day of the meeting to be answered. (3) The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister may postpone an oral or written answer to a question due to illness, a business trip outside the country or in cases of urgency. (4) Where the national representative who asks the question is absent from the meeting for respectable reasons, the answer shall be postponed. The absence for respectable reasons shall be certified by a letter from the Member of the National Assembly to the President of the National Assembly by 18:00 on the day preceding the parliamentary control. Where absence is more than three times, the Minister shall reply in writing within 7 days of the date of the last absence of the Member of the National Assembly. (5) Where a written answer to the question has been received, the President shall communicate it at the parliamentary control meeting. The date of publication of the written answer to the question on the website of the National Assembly in section "Parliamentary control" shall be considered as the date of receipt by the National Representative. (6) Members of the National Assembly may withdraw their questions in writing by 18:00 a.m. of the day preceding parliamentary control. The President of the National Assembly shall inform the relevant Minister thereof. (7) Where the parliamentary groups during the parliamentary control meeting have benefited from their right under art. 48, para. 5, the time of the parliamentary control meeting shall be extended by the same amount. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 93.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u246	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I'm opening the debate on the provisions of Articles 91, 92 and 93. Are there any speeches? Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u247	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Please take a look at the second paragraph of the version adopted by the Commission. Reg. 91, para. 2, the version of the Commission, which accepts Mr. Gajev's proposal. If we understand the meaning of the first and second paragraphs, we will see that this supplement makes no sense because it repeats in para. 1 It is precisely the possibility for the Prime Minister to address issues affecting the activities of his administration. In para. 2 repeat the same thing, it doesn't make sense. I make an editorial proposal to remain the original text as it was in para. 2, that is to say, the administration that he is responsible for is to fall. The meaning of al. 2 is to be able to have the Prime Minister as a single authority with common competence, responsible for the activities of the entire government, in this capacity to receive questions and questions, and not as regards his subordinate administration, which is under para. 2. Please keep in mind, this is purely technical, but it is important to clarify it so that we do not create unnecessary reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u248	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there any lines on Mr. Slavov's statement? Procedure by Alexander Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u249	Dear colleagues, our colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" we have decided to withdraw the changes in art. 92 to be more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u250	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. Speech "Hristo Gazhev," and then "Philip Popov."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u251	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, the proposal, which is under art. Reg. 91, para. 2. Well, it's not exactly how they tried to represent it. After all, by voting on Monday, the structure of the Council of Ministers, a number of state agencies went directly to the Prime Minister's submission. Isn't that right? If the text is preserved, as the honourable Mr. Slavov suggests, this means that the Prime Minister will not be able to answer questions related to the activity of these sectors. That is, for the Food Agency, for the state of the forest it will not be able to answer, because the text means only under the government's activities on common policies. I mean, he won't be able to be asked anything specific. That's true. And this, by the way, Mr. President, will give you the opportunity, because you are the person who determines whether a question is admissible or not admissible, to return questions to the Members of the National Assembly and thus continue an additional tension, appeal to this act of yours and so on. But here, in the end, it is a decision of the House how much the Prime Minister would want to hide from such answers. But more fun and more interesting is in art. 92, para. 3. In para. 3 There was a good achievement from the previous assembly that the answers to questions, since they are up to date, cannot be delayed. It is understandable that there are cases where there is no way for the Prime Minister, ministers or deputy prime ministers to be in the Chamber. Those are the cases when they're out of the country, and those when they're sick in the hospital. Makes sense they can't come if they're in hospital. This was a constructive and very correct proposal from "There is such a people." The interesting thing was that in the Commission in defence of the government and in defence of the possibility of the ministers delaying the questions was not just anyone, but the DPS, and they suggested that there should be an opportunity for the ministers to postpone their questions and their appearance to the National Assembly. This is an interesting construction that is being observed, and how did the DPS actually get involved in defence of the Council of Ministers to be able to postpone its issues? What is the definition of an urgent case? If anyone can give it to me, I'd be grateful. Therefore, abuse can be brought to light, but exaggerating the possibilities for urgent cases by the ministers, the Prime Minister and the Vice-Presidents is something that I doubt is in the prerogatives of the new majority. That is why, and to show that you are honest, I suggest that the words "or in cases of urgency" be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u252	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. A line? Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gazhev, the DPS has not gone out in defence of any minister or any Council of Ministers. I took the floor to tell you that the text that was submitted is not functional. There are a number of cases that cannot be entered into these two cases - sickness or travel abroad. We've got an example from last week, we've got floods, we've got disasters. And instead of the minister being there with the people in the distressing district, you're going to tie him up here all day to crucify him. It's just not functional. I'm not protecting anyone. I am sure that the ministers in this government, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister will not be like yours, and your Prime Minister has not appeared in the National Assembly for a year and a half. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] For him, it was an emergency to kick football. Please don't pull my tongue! [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u254	Are there any other lines to Mr. Gajev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not agree with the speech of colleague Gajev and I fully support this to colleague Slavov. Indeed, in para. 2 is made a tautology because of para. 2 is in practice also contained in para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u256	For art. 91, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u257	Yes, for art. 91 speaking. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 91, para. 1 writes: "They address to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or to the Minister issues concerning the activities of their administration. In para. 2 repeat the same thing. That's why I'm making this proposal, if Mr. Slavov didn't do it, in par. 2 to remain the old, current version: The Prime Minister is asked questions concerning the government's activities in its entirety. Because he is therefore responsible, in the end, for precisely as Prime Minister, except for the management of the administration. This possibility is contained in art. Reg. 91, para. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u258	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Gadget, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u259	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, this is why it is important to have debates, not to end the debates at each first speech, supposedly to save time. Yes, I agree with your motives and with one part of what you said, but since they have already entered the report, the House is about to vote on them and see what comes out. I suppose they will be rejected and the text will remain as it has been before. I hope this will not be an occasion to return questions. I'm staying here with hope. As for Mr Hamid's line, I think you and the Commission said that the wedding is an urgent matter. From now on, the question is how much will be abused by the ministers themselves and how exactly will the option of urgent issues be practiced, which will be a reason for delay. Therefore, I call on this House to avoid such speculation. Show that you will not give such hidden opportunities for delaying the questions. As for this, if there is a disaster, an accident or any other really important reason. I think we're all reasonable people here, and no one's going to be involved, given that everyone is aware of the situation in the country, if there's a flood, anyone wants to sit here, the minister who's responsible. Of course the people's representative will postpone the matter. After all, we are all reasonable people here and the people's representative can, but the prerogative belongs to parliament. I thought we were going to get the parliamentary back.!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u260	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I terminate the discussion on the provisions of Articles 91, 92 and 93. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, we vote on the proposal of the MP Atanas Slavov from the proposed text of art. Reg. 91, para. 2 drop the words or his administration. Please vote. Vote 131 MPs: 109 against 9, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev for amendment in art. 92, para. 3, as the proposal is from para. 3 to drop the words.. or in cases of urgency....................................................................................................... Please vote on the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev. They voted 161 MPs: 31, against 100, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the texts proposed by the Temporary Commission in Articles 91, 92 and 93 in accordance with the already voted version proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Atanas Slavov and the name of Chapter 9a and Section I thereof. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u261	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u262	Okay, we're re-voting. Mr. Gazhev, no arguments at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u263	No arguments at all. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want a re-voting procedure. Obviously, many people and the ruling majority have not been able to vote, as at the moment the quorum and this sitting depend solely on the votes of the DPS. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u264	There's been a request for a re-vote. We're re-voting. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from DPS.]] The proposals have been accepted. Holiday till 2:40 p.m. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u265	We continue on the agenda with consideration of the proposal for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Mr. Ananiev, you have the floor of art. It's 94.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u266	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 94. Under art. 95 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Elena Guncheva. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 95, para. 1 The text shall be amended by: Art. 95. The questions shall be answered within 14 days of their registration. The answer may be oral or written. The answer is written when the people's representative who made the question expressed an express desire to do so. A Member of the National Assembly having asked an oral question may request in writing a change of the type of response in writing by 18:00 of the day preceding parliamentary control. The time limit for the reply shall be 7 days from the date of the request for the change and shall not be postponed by the Minister. The requests and replies to them shall be submitted in paper form and in electronic form or in full electronic form, such as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures, shall be registered in a public register without delay, and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly in the section of the Parliamentary Control. Art. 95. The questions shall be answered within 14 days of their registration. The answer may be oral or written. The answer is written when the people's representative who made the question expressed an express desire to do so. A Member of the National Assembly having asked an oral question may request in writing a change of the type of response in writing by 18:00 of the day preceding parliamentary control. The time limit for the reply shall be 7 days from the date of the request for the change and may be postponed up to seven days by the Minister if the preparation of the reply requires more time. The requests and replies to them shall be submitted in paper form and in electronic form or in full electronic form, such as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures, shall be registered in a public register without delay, and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly in the section of the Parliamentary Control. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 95: Art. 95. The questions shall be answered within 14 days of their registration. The answer may be oral or written. The answer is written when the people's representative who made the question expressed an express desire to do so. A Member of the National Assembly having asked an oral question may request in writing a change of the type of response in writing by 18:00 of the day preceding parliamentary control. The time limit for the written reply shall be 7 days from the day of the request of the change and shall not be postponed by the Minister, except in the cases referred to in art. 97, para. 2. The requests and replies to them shall be submitted in paper form and in electronic form or in full electronic form, such as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures, shall be registered in a public register without delay, and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly in the section "Parliamentary control" in compliance with the requirements for the protection of personal data. Under art. 96 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva u Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports in principle the text of the Project and proposes the following editing pa art. 96: Art. 96. The questions shall be made through the President of the National Assembly in writing and signed by the National Representative. They must be clearly and accurately formulated and contain no personal attacks and insulting qualifications and contain one specific question. Under art. 97 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 97: Art. 97. (1) The President of the National Assembly shall inform in due time the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister concerned of the requests received and of the day of the meeting to be answered. (2) The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister may postpone oral or written response to a question due to illness, a business trip outside the country or in cases of urgency. (3) The answer to the question shall be postponed if the appointed representative is absent from the meeting for respectable reasons. The absence for respectable reasons shall be certified by a letter from the Member of the National Assembly to the President of the National Assembly by 18:00 on the day preceding the parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u267	I open discussions on the provisions of art. Article 94 97 included. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Elena Guncheva to amend art. 95 of the Rules of Procedure, not supported by the Temporary Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 13, against 83, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the provisions of art. Art. 94, Art. Art. 95, Art. Art. 96 97 in the version proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 133, none, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u268	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 98. Under art. 99 has a proposal from the MP Elena Guncheva. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 The text shall be amended as follows: After the National Assembly starts to examine the questioning, the importer may develop it within 3 minutes. The answer to the question is up to 5 minutes. The answer to the question is up to 15 minutes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 99. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 100. Under art. 101 has a proposal from the MP Radomir Cholakov. In Article 101, paragraph 2 is amended as follows: (2) Debates shall be scheduled for the next plenary session designated for parliamentary control. After the debate is scheduled by the President of the National Assembly, MPs cannot withdraw their signatures from the proposal. The debates shall be held in the presence of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister in accordance with the procedure set out in Chapter 7 and the provisions of art. 52, para. 1 and para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 101, para. 2 the words "s" continue for one hour. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 101. [[The National Representative Alexander Dunchev wants the floor.]] Under art. 102 has a proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 102 is created a new para. 5 with the following content: The Prime Minister has the opportunity to refer the matter to a specific Deputy Prime Minister or Minister if he considers that on a given question he would have had the opportunity to give a more precise, more detailed and more complete answer to the question asked and/or question. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 102.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u269	I am opening the discussion on the texts of art. 98 to Art. 102. [[The National Representative Alexander Dunchev wants the floor to withdraw the proposal.]] You're welcome to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u270	That's why I rushed it. I even wanted to save the reading. There's no way. Thank you. We are continuing the Change. We are drawing up the proposal to amend art. 102.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u271	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. [[The National Representative Hristo Gazhev wants the floor for procedure.]] The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u272	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A quick procedure in the manner of holding.. to note to you that when a representative of the National Assembly wants to withdraw his proposal, he can also do so from place, he does not have to come to the stand. Thus, it is not necessary to read his proposal, which he obviously wants to withdraw. So allow the MPs who withdraw their proposals to withdraw them, not to be read from the stands. In this way, the process will be much more effective.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u273	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, in the break I made a quick survey and found that of all the proposals that Mr. Gazhev's opposition made was accepted one, Mrs. Guncheva accepted one, Mr. Hamid one, only the Commission. Obviously, the idea is not to accept anything, whether it is good, right and logical. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101, para. 2 I have made one logical and correct proposal, and it is in fact in the second sentence. We are talking, colleagues, about the following: when there is an item on the agenda, the debate on the point and the discussions take place under art. 52. Article 101, para. 2 refers to one particular hypothesis of putting an item on the agenda, and this is a debate with a draft decision, both, and the other is a point on the agenda. Once they have entered the agenda, discussions or discussions should take place in the same procedure. The point is that at the standard item on the agenda the discussions take place within the framework of our already known procedure the largest group has 30 minutes, the smaller "27" and so on. Unclear why, in the case of a item on the agenda that is on the subject of a debate on a parliamentary question, the time is only one hour for everyone, with the smallest group having five minutes, then climbing, as the second, in the sense the next larger, will have six, seven, eight and nine. That's how much I counted. I would really like to ask my fellow lawyers, particularly colleague Miteva, colleague Slavov, colleague Zarkov, to explain to me as an answer, either as a reply, or as a personal explanation of what requires in one case the debate to take place according to the standard order of art. 56, and in this special case there should be restrictions. Thank you for your attention. Of course, because the proposal is logical, I hope you will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u275	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate on the provisions of art. 98 to Art. 102. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Elena Guncheva for amendment to art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1. They voted 144 MPs: 29, against 83, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Radomir Cholakov to amend art. 101, para. 2. Vote 155 MPs: 36, against 85, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev to amend art. 101, para. 2. Vote 155 MPs: 26, Against 87, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the provisions of Articles 98, 99, 100, 101 and 102 in the version proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 134, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u276	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 103. Under art. 104 there is a proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 104: Art. 104. (1) In the first to two hours of the meeting on the first Friday of each month the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister shall appear before the National Assembly and shall answer current oral questions relating to the general policy of the government addressed by the MPs at the meeting itself. The questions referred may not contain requests for detailed numerical data. (2) The right to two up-to-date oral questions shall have every single parliamentary group, and the Members of the National Assembly who are not members of a parliamentary group shall be entitled to two questions in total. (3) The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers to whom a question has been addressed shall answer immediately after the question has been asked. In the event of the absence of the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Ministers due to illness or secondment outside the country, the President of the National Assembly, in agreement with them, shall determine the meeting to which they will respond to current oral questions. (4) The order to ask topical oral questions under para. 1 shall be determined according to the number of parliamentary groups in descending order, the last in line being a Member of the National Assembly not belonging to a parliamentary group. Asking the second questions is in the same order after the procedure on the first questions has been exhausted. (5) The provisions of art. 93, para. Two and three. (6) Parliamentary groups shall not avail themselves of their right under art. 48, para. 5 in time for answers to current oral questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u277	I'm opening discussions on art. Art. 103, Art. 104. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please vote on the proposal of the Temporary Commission for the wording of art. Article 103 and Article 103 104. Vote 128 MPs: 117 against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u278	"Department II." The Commission shall support the text of the draft name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 105. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 106. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 107. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 108. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 109.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u279	I open discussions on the provisions of art. Art. 105 to Art. 109 of the Rules of Procedure. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please proceed to a vote on the title of Section II and the texts of art. Art. 105 to Art. 109 inclusive. They voted 124 MPs: for 123, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u280	"Department II". The Commission shall support the text of the draft name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 110. Under art. 111 has a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The second sentence and third sentence are created: The presence of administrative, judicial and other pending proceedings before an authority shall not prevent the provision of information and documents or the hearing of the persons invited by the committees. In the event of a refusal to fulfil constitutional obligations, there is a legal responsibility. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 111: Art. 111. All state authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration and citizens are obliged to provide the necessary information and documents in relation to the issues subject to hearings in the committee, even where the information is state or official secrecy, and to appear at the invitation of the National Assembly. Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the draft name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 112. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 113. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 114.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u281	I am opening the debates under Section III, including art. Art. 110 and Art. 110 111, Section IV, including Articles 112, 113 and 114. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov to supplement art. 111. They voted 123 MPs: 72, against 18, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. [[IHN lines:.]] We're overreacting. They voted 129 MPs: for 74, against 26, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. I shall put the title of Section III to the vote, art. Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110, Art. 110 in the version after the already voted addition on a proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov, the title of Section IV and Articles 112, 113 and 114. Vote 141 MPs: 127, against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u282	Head Tenth. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter 10a. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 115. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 116. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 117. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 118. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 119. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 120. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 121. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 122. Under art. 123 has a proposal from the MP Hristo Gajev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 123 is created. (2) The Deputy Prime Ministers shall present to the Committee on European Union Affairs and the relevant committees the positions of the Republic of Bulgaria approved by the Council of Ministers for the meetings of the European Council. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 123: Art. 123. (1) The National Assembly may hold a hearing of the Prime Minister on the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in forthcoming meetings, as well as on the results of the meetings of the European Council. (2) The Deputy Prime Ministers shall present to the Committee on European Union Affairs and the relevant committees the positions of the Republic of Bulgaria approved by the Council of Ministers for the meetings of the European Council. Under art. 124 has a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 124: Art. 124. (1) The Council of Ministers, acting in accordance with art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution, informs the National Assembly: 1. on matters relating to the obligations arising for the Republic of Bulgaria from its membership in the European Union; 2. for the decisions of the European Commission on infringement procedures under art. 258 - 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union against the Republic of Bulgaria immediately after their adoption; 3. in cases of t. 2 "For the measures necessary to remedy infringements of European Union law'. (2) In the case of a bill submitted to the National Assembly, which shall adopt measures at national level necessary for the introduction or application of acts of the European Union............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 258 " 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Council of Ministers sends an approved position to the Republic of Bulgaria to the President of the Commission on European Union Affairs and to the President of the leading Standing Committee of the National Assembly. (3) The Committee on European Union Affairs shall report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the obligation of the Council of Ministers for prior information in its participation in the development and adoption of European Union acts. The Commission shall also draw up reports on other acts of the institutions of the European Union. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 125. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 126.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u283	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I open the discussion on Chapter 10, which includes members from 115 to 126 inclusive. Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the title of Chapter 10 and the texts of art. 115 to 126 inclusive, as proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 131, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u284	Chapter 11. The Commission shall support the text of the draft on the name of Chapter 11. The Commission shall support the text of the draft on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 127. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 128. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 129. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 130. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 131. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 132. Under art. 133 has a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 133, para. 2 after the word the sitting is added for good reasons. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 133. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 134. Under art. 135 has a proposal from the MP Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: A new sentence shall be added in paragraph 7 with the following text: If the criminal proceedings are resumed subsequently and the sentence is revoked, the authority of the Member of the National Assembly shall be exercised. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 135. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 136. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 138.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u285	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I am opening the discussion on the provisions of art. Art. 127 to Art. 127 138 proposed by the Commission and the proposals made by the Members of the National Assembly. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrey Mihailov to supplement art. 133, para. 2. They voted 147 MPs: 90 against 17, 40 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov as an addition to art. 135, para. 7 unsupported by the Temporary Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 30, against 87, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the title of Chapter 11, the title of Section I, the texts of Articles 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133 Vote 134 MPs: 119, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u286	Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the draft on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 139. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 140. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 141. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 142. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 143. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 144. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 145. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 146. Under art. 147 there is a proposal from the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the CPNS: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 147 words the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Sub-Committee are replaced by the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Counteraction Officer. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 147: Art. 147. The Anti-Corruption Prevention and Counter-Corruption Committee provides clarification to the Members of the National Assembly on the application of ethical standards of conduct. At the request of the Member of the National Assembly, clarification may be confidential. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 148. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 149. Under art. 150 has a proposal from the MP Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 150: Art. 150. (1) The Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption shall establish an infringement under this Section and shall rule by a decision which may impose the following measures: 1. note; 2. reprimand; 3. suspension from one to three committee meetings. (2) When determining the measure, account shall be taken of the gravity of the infringement and its expediency, recurrent or systemic nature. (3) The Member of the National Assembly shall not receive remuneration for the meetings from which he has been removed. Under art. 151 has a proposal from the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 151: Art. 151. (1) Any Member of the National Assembly, natural or legal person may submit a complaint or a signal of violation of ethical standards of conduct to the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption in accordance with the rules laid down in para. 4. (2) The Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption shall adopt a decision to impose a measure under art. 150, para. 1 after hearing from the Member of the National Assembly and getting acquainted with all the materials related to the violation of ethical standards of conduct. The Commission shall publish the decision in a public register of the National Assembly after communicating it to the National Assembly. (3) The Members of the National Assembly shall have the right to express an opinion on the decision to be published in the Register under para. 2. (4) The Commission under para. 1 shall adopt rules on the application of this Section.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u287	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I open the discussion under Section II, Articles 139 to 151. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There aren't any. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the title of Section II as well as the texts of Articles 139 to 151 including, as proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 150 MPs: 132, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u288	Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the draft on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 152. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 153. On a proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov 153a: Art. 153a. The Chairs of committees may impose disciplinary measures under art. 153, p. 1 s 4 during a meeting of the committee concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 154. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 155. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 156. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 157. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 158. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 159. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 160. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 161.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u289	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Dear colleagues, I am opening the discussion on the texts of art. 152 to 161. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov to create a new provision Art. 153a. Vote 151 MPs: 40 against 24 abstentioned 87. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the title of Section III as well as the texts of art. Article 152 161 in the version proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 149 MPs: 143, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go any further, I will make a procedural proposal to include the following additional item on our agenda for today, namely the termination of the powers of four Members of Parliament. There are resignations from Radostina Tsenova, Veliko Minkov, Ivan Hristov and Hristo Daskalov, and I propose that the item be the last for today's plenary session. Please vote on the proposal. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. In view of the new item included, I also propose that the plenary session be extended until all the points of the Programme have been completed, as it is currently pending the review of the Project. Vote 136 MPs: 129 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Before we continue to give the floor to the procedure. Excuse me, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have just voted on an amendment in art. 119 with which the chairmen of the committees will now be able to impose legal responsibility. [[(Radio.) Replies:? Mine, mine.)]] Can we check if it's over, because if this thing is over, we're going to have to define what a legal responsibility is and we're going to have to create some kind of administrative...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u291	Mr. Abrovsky, we actually put it to the vote and it was accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u292	Once it's accepted, I think... [[Heckling]] I mean, there's a problem right now. Firstly, we need to define what is a legal responsibility and secondly, we need to create a separate chapter to impose this legal responsibility, colleagues. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u293	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u294	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u295	Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u296	Dear Mr. President, in relation to what my colleague just said, I would like to remind you that at any time during the debate, we can go back and reschedule this text if it has not been respoken. So the procedure is free. This explains that this text can now be re-voted if there is a desire in the MPs. Just because it's past then doesn't mean the MPs can't ask for a re-vote anymore. Because by many laws it has been necessary, colleagues, at the end of the session, to return to reword texts where there are differences, contradictions and technical errors. This is a practice in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u297	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I've received confirmation that the text has been voted twice. Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u298	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the draft § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 2. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 3. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 4. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the draft § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 8. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 9. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 10. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 11. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 12. Paragraph 13? a proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrey Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. These Rules shall be adopted on the basis of art. 73 of the Constitution and revokes the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly (GD, SG No. 65 of 2021) The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u299	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I am opening the discussion on the additional provisions and the transitional and final provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the name of the division "Additional provisions', the additional provisions of § 1 to § 10, including the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions', the provisions of § 11 to § 14 in the version proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 147 MPs: 131, none, abstentioned 16. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Annex to art. 70, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the Annex to art. 70, para. 3. Annex to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly's Financial Rules. Proposal of the National Representative Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 of the Financial Rules of the National Assembly's budget.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly "A new para" is added. 5 with the following content: 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly. The second sentence removes the text: On the basis of a decision of the parliamentary groups. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the Annex to the Rules of Procedure, as in art. 17 of him said the words. 25, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 26, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u301	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u302	Mr. Gajev, will you withdraw this offer? [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u303	Separate vote on Andrei Gurov's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u304	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u305	I am opening the discussion on the annex to art. 70, para. 3 as well as the texts of art. 1 to Art. 1 17 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u308	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! To the Commission, the proposal that we made from "We are continuing the Change relating to the receipt of the remuneration by bank transfer has been rejected. That is why I would like to call on you to support him now in this House. I think that for all of the coalition majority it is important to show full transparency and to be able to get as much out of the gray sector as possible. [[Radio.]] One of the concerns we have is related... [[Heckling]] I'll explain, wait!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u309	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u310	...is related to t. 3 in art. 11, where currently the two thirds, which are being paid to the MPs by bank transfer, are following a decision of the parliamentary group. I explain: the two thirds are currently about BGN 3400. [[Heckling]] That's it: 3,000. 300 and something. If the parliamentary group is the parliamentary group of GERB, decide to give only 1000 BGN. the MPs of this money will actually remain 140,000. BGN to be given in cash. In this way we violate the Law on the limitation of payments in cash, where explicitly in art. 10 is written that such payments can not be made up to 10,000. lv. In fact, this is how we break the law. It's not just us, it's the National Assembly breaking it. That is why our proposal is for more transparency for payment by bank transfer of the remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly, and I hope that you will support all of you from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, there is such a people as there are also from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, this proposal of ours. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u311	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u312	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ananiev, first of all, you should be aware that bank payment does not mean transparency and you should know that. Then, when you pay by bank transfer, you have a bank secret that can't be revealed just like that to be transparent to the entire population and to everyone else. The next thing, read the Money Laundering Act so that you can find out when what payments should be reported and when you have the right to over 10,000 and what is said in this law, because clearly from what you said, you are not aware.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u313	Thank you. A line from Desislava Atanasova or Hristo Gazhev? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u314	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the line because you gave an extremely incorrect comparison in your speech about the parliamentary group of GERB. If you learn to read a little ahead of your proposal, you will see that the money you are talking about is transmitted by bank transfer. What bags of money, Mr. Ananiev?! I mean, you might want them and dream about them, but money is wired by bank transfer based on a decision of the parliamentary group. Even if your text is adopted or not adopted, the banking path remains.. The National Assembly transfers by bank transfer on the basis of a decision of the parliamentary groups as it is at the moment. Everything's going in a bank, sorry, sorry you're dreaming of money in a bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u315	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ananiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u316	Dear Mr. Gazhev, I don't know about bags, but we heard about bags from highway Hemus, which are being exported from banks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u317	Let's get to it, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u318	Some dream of bags, others dream of bags! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I want to read you the Cash Payments Act, where in art. 4a is said that: "Budget organizations can withdraw cash from their bank accounts only for payments for which, in specific circumstances of activity, it is practically impossible to carry them out through payment transfer. We are a budgetary organisation, correct me, but why would the National Assembly then withdraw such cash rather than transfer it by bank transfer? So let's accept this text in art. 5 in which it says that the salaries of all MPs will be paid by bank transfer, and the same is for art. Art. 6, Art. 11, affecting the two thirds. Mr. Karimansky, there is nothing to be ashamed of, there should be transparency and people should know what reward we get. By the way, it's in the Financial Rules, when you sit down to calculate all the pros and years of internship per person, you can see what the MPs receive. So don't be afraid, let's state and let people know what... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u319	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u320	...reward we receive our posts are public and electoral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u321	Thank you. To speak, Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ananiev, I'm addressing you, although I'm not using a line right now. I should like to point out to you that you are very seriously confused in your vision of the action of this.. This is the one, Mr. Ananiev, who, with regard to the Financial Rules, has always been applied in the same way. The funds have always been received by bank transfer, and on top of that, they are declared, Mr. Ananiev, if you do not know. On the Anti-Corruption Commission's page are all the declarations of the MPs who were in previous parliaments, and you were once a member of the National Assembly and you know that everything the MPs receive, according to art. 11 of the Financial Rules is declared in our annual introductory financial statements. What bags, what bags, what nonsense are you talking?! I am telling you that these are texts that have always acted under the rules of the Rules of Procedure which the National Assembly has voted on. In this sense, I find it absurd that you claim, and even more ridiculous is the way you use the Law against money laundering. There is no link between the rules that have always been applied in this way, always the MPs have announced their income and received them by bank transfer at least in the last few members of the National Assembly. I find no argument at all in your speech just now, and therefore I call on you, Mr President, to ensure that the speeches of the Members of the National Assembly do not depart from logic either from the text discussed or from the rules and laws in force in our country. At the moment we have a procedural proposal and I suggest that you put to a separate vote the three proposals made by the national representative Andrey Gurov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u323	Mr. Karimansky, for a line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u324	Dear Mrs. Atanasova, with your always, always, always, well, it's not always. In the Forty-third National Assembly, money was made in cash, and not only is that the problem, but the law I quoted is to limit payments in cash. If you drop what we offer in item. 11, without the decision of the parliamentary group, you will be the rights the money will enter directly by bank transfer with the MPs and this is what we propose. Why do you want a solution if the money is set for the MP and they will be banked into his account, and why should there be a decision of the parliamentary group on this thing? This is exactly what we propose to make the decision of the parliamentary group and the money to enter, as it is in the current Rules. Read it, see, it says that the two thirds are being paid by bank transfer, so let's not make things up. The MPs who were probably in the last parliament were different, but I didn't hear it was anything different. At the forty-third and forty-fourth National Assembly there were such practices, so let's stop them because I think it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u325	Thank you. Is there any other line to Mrs. Atanasova's statement? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ananiev, you have pleasantly surprised me and realized that money is not taken in sacks or bags, but on a bank basis and on this issue we do not argue, do we not? In the Rules of Procedure, which is currently acting, the one that was acting in the Forty-Sixth, in the Forty-Fiveth, in the Forty-fourth Assembly, the rules were the same, and the funds of the people's representatives were obtained by bank transfer. You see the rules in force, don't you? You read it, don't you?! Your argument is that the parliamentary group should not solve any internal issues of its own, and that should be laid down in the Rules of Procedure, I do not approve it and I do not approve it of the whole parliamentary group and we will express this by voting on our vote. Please do not say this because the Members are in the National Assembly for the first time and would have the wrong impression that the funds for the Members of the National Assembly have been received by some other means so far. No, colleagues, it's a bank transfer, by decision of the parliamentary group! If there is a parliamentary group that makes adequate decisions, it does not make any sense to change the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u327	Thank you. Speaking to Mr. Karimansky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u328	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wondered very much if I should take the floor, but in the end, I decided to make a statement. Personally, me and our parliamentary group have always stood for the remuneration to be paid by bank transfer. I am convinced that this is the right way to pay by bank! But to be correct, I do not know if Mr. Ananiev has ever held an exam and what assessment he has in public finances. Since I taught this part at the UNWE, I would write him a very bad grade. What I still want to say is: in the Labour Code in art. 270, para. 3 writes: "The employer's remuneration shall be paid in person to the employee or employee of the payroll or against a receipt, or at the written request of the employee or employee of his relatives. At the written request of the employee, his wage shall be paid into a deposit in a bank designated by him. If you want to make a derogation to the Labour Code or in any other way, we are about being transparent. But here you should be aware that we are a budgetary organisation, and when we are a budgetary organisation, I don't know what kind of gray money you're talking about at all?! I don't understand this thing! Let us be clear that there is a Court of Auditors and it can come up with a report. What are you talking about? Why do you have to make suggestions or naked populism just like that because you're on the stand and you're going on coasting on what you read in the Rules? [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u329	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova to vote the three proposals by the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs to be voted separately. Revocation of this vote. Maybe the system makes a mistake around 4:00, but don't worry. I ask for a re-vote, where I hope there will be no pre-counted vote. We are voting on the proposal of MP Desislava Atanasova. Vote 163 MPs: 152 against 1, abstention 10. Sustained. We're moving on to a separate vote. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs in the section under. Article 1 relating to Art. 1 5. Vote 160 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs in the section under. Article 2 concerning Art. 2 6 of the Financial Rules. Vote 155 MPs: 125, none, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of Andrej Gurov and a group of MPs in the section under. Article 3 concerning Art. 3 11 of the Financial Rules. Vote 162 MPs: for 67, against 41, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Revoting! They voted 161 MPs: for 67, against 42, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall vote on the annex to art. 70, para. 3, as well as the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly of Art. 3. Art. 11 to art. 17 in the version proposed by the Temporary Commission in accordance with the amendments already voted in art. 5 and 6. They voted 155 MPs: 133, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u330	Proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev: Annex 1 to the EEA Agreement shall be amended as follows: Uniform rules for the promotion of applications, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates, preparing for the selection and selection of bodies under the current legislation. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u331	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u332	I. Opening of the selection procedure for bodies under the legislation in force 1. Within 6 months of the expiry of the statutory term of office of bodies or prior to the term laid down in the law, the Permanent Committee shall inform the National Assembly of the expiry of the term of office or period and shall draw up a draft decision to initiate a selection procedure, in whole or in part, of bodies under the legislation in force. 2. At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly shall open the procedure for the selection of the body with a decision. 3. With the opening of the selection procedure, the National Assembly shall establish a temporary committee which shall prepare and organise the selection and submit the nominations for consideration and voting by the National Assembly. Members of the respective specialized Standing Committees of the National Assembly shall participate in the Temporary Committee. 4. The composition of the committee shall be determined on a parite principle with MPs from each parliamentary group, which shall be members of the relevant committee, and its number shall be determined by the National Assembly on a proposal from the committee responsible. The Temporary Committee shall have one Chair and two Vice-Presidents. 5. The National Assembly shall elect the management and composition of the temporary committee with the decision on the subject. 2. 6. Each member of the temporary committee shall declare, in the respective legal order, the existence of a conflict of interest and/or other related circumstances with those nominated for the position concerned following the nomination. 7. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of time until the decision of the National Assembly has been finalized. 8. The meetings of the temporary committee have been opened. The meetings of the temporary committee shall be broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 9. Representatives of non-profit legal entities registered for public benefit shall be entitled to participate in the meetings of the temporary committee without voting rights. Representatives of civil society organisations and movements shall have the right to ask questions, to submit written opinions and to take part in the deliberations of the temporary committee. 10. Any member of the committee may invite individuals or representatives of legal persons concerned with the choice to participate in its meeting. 11. Citizens may attend committee meetings subject to the access and order regime in the National Assembly. 12. The full transcript shall be signed by the Chair of the Temporary Committee and published....
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u333	Can I stop you for a second? I'm sorry. Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u334	Mr. Chairman, I propose on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly............................................................................. 80, para. 1, I apologize, I am proposing that the texts be not read in plenary. [[Applause from IHN.]] Colleagues, is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Iva Miteva. They voted 125 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u335	Just to report that this Annex is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u336	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I'm opening discussions. Here you are, Mr. Popov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think a technical error has been made in one already voted text. It's a matter of art. 104 on page 81 and 82, para. 3 on the Commission report. Since in previous texts we have accepted a disease, a business trip outside the country or another emergency, the case with an urgent case is missed here. This is why I am making an editorial proposal to be added after the country is outside the country or another urgent case to have a synchronization with previous texts that we have adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u338	I'm sorry, Mr. Popov. Article 104, which paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u339	Alinea 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u340	It's the blitzcontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u341	That's the blitz control, yeah. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u342	In the course of the procedure, because it was a procedure. We voted, that is, you voted on the urgent reasons for parliamentary control, which is the classic parliamentary control on Friday, after 11:00 under the Rules of Procedure, unless the Assembly decides otherwise. But this is about blitzcontrol, which is set in another order. If we're gonna put an emergency in there, we're gonna cancel the blitzcontrol and get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u343	Mr. Popov, let me ask you exactly. In the second sentence of para. 3, after the text "sickness" or "traveling" to place the text "or in other cases of need"? Mr. Popov, in the following way: after the expression "sickness" we place a comma, we delete the word "sickness," "commander" remains, and then we add "sickness," or in cases of need. No, I apologize, "Communication outside the country" and then we add the words "or in cases of urgency." Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'll read the whole al. 3, before we vote: (3) The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers to whom a question has been addressed shall answer as soon as it is asked. In the event of the absence of the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Ministers due to sickness, secondment outside the country or in urgent cases, the President of the National Assembly shall, in agreement with them, determine the meeting to which they will respond to up-to-date oral questions. Please vote, colleagues. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u344	On behalf of the parliamentary group, a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u345	Fifteen minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u346	Honourable Members, we are continuing on the agenda. We've reached a vote on the people's proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u347	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u348	The way you're leading it? Once we pass the vote, the vote cannot be taken in the voting regime. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Philip Popov. They voted 121 MPs: 99, against 21, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause and cheering from IHN: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u349	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u350	Yeah, that's the re-voting. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u351	That was the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u352	No, it's two, the first one was 120 right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u353	There was no quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u354	The first one failed. [[Heckling]] We move on to the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev. Please vote on the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev for Uniform Rules. They voted 122 MPs: 9 against 103, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause and applause from.. We continue the Change.]] For an explanation of a negative vote? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u355	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have a GERB MP who makes fundamental proposals and his people are not here to vote on them. This is not serious! [[Extreme applauses from "Democratic Bulgaria".]] Please invite the parliamentary group! We 16 people from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria are discussing your proposals, they are very important and serious, and you are not there! This is not a serious attitude towards the whole parliamentary process, fellow Members! [[Extreme applauses from "Democratic Bulgaria".]] Your people do not support your suggestions! Where are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u356	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Objections in the manner of conduct you wouldn't want to guess now? [[(Reply from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev:]] All right, Mr. Gadget, you're up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u357	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. It's a good thing we're finally going to finish the Rules, and I'm glad for that. Now only you need to remind the previous vote, as eight MPs from the National Assembly supported it, and not 16 I say it as a representative of the National Assembly. I have expressed my will. Whether my parliamentary group will support it or not, it is the decision of every Member of the Parliament from it. We're not built like other people here. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u358	Thank you. We have thus exhausted the draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Moving on to the last item on the agenda for today: TERMINATION OF REPRESENTATIVES OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. Deposited resignation by the National Representative Radostina Tsenova, on the grounds of art. 72, para. 1 of t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria resigns as the MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. She wishes to be terminated as a Member of the National Assembly by decision of the National Assembly. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the powers of Radostina Alexandrova Tsenova as a MP from the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia. I'm opening discussions on the draft decision. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. Here's a statement, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u359	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I suggest, as the drafts for a solution are four, read them out and vote them out as they are for the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u360	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Heckling]] A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u361	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My proposal is to vote them separately, that is, the opposite of what was proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u362	Thank you. I put to the vote Georgi Svilenski's proposal to vote together on individual decisions. They voted 123 MPs: 113 against 4, abstention 6. I'll continue reading. An application was received from Veliko Mitkov Minkov, with which he resigned as MP and asked to be terminated his credentials as MP. The draft decision is as follows: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Veliko Mitkov Minkov as MP from the Nineteenth Election Region There was also a request from Ivan Markos Hristnov, with which he resigned as a MP and wished to terminate his authority as a Member of the National Assembly. The draft decision is as follows: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Ivan Markos Hristnov's authority as MP from the Fifteenth Election Region of Pleven. There was a request from Hristo Yordanov Daskalov, with which he resigned as a representative of the National Assembly and asked for his authority to be terminated as a representative of the National Assembly. The draft decision is as follows: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Hristo Yordanov Daskalov as a MP from the Sixteenth Election Region. I'm opening discussions on read projects. Please come in for a statement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u363	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Constitutional Court has already ruled in Case No 5 of 2001 that the term of office of the Members of the National Assembly shall begin from the time of their election on the day of their election. In this sense, if an MP wants to be released early, he should resign to the National Assembly and not to the Central Election Commission. The reasons for my resignation are mostly personal, but I will still use the opportunity to share a passage from the book of interviews with Atanas Burov by Mikhail Topalov Pamukchiev. In this passage the author asks the banker about the greatest Bulgarians. To quote short, who was the greatest of them, the one you love and the tattoos? Burov answers: The greatest was Hristo Botev, followed by Levski, Benkovski, Panayot Volov. Pamukchiev perplexed asks: "Why are you putting Panayot Volov? Why not Todor Kableshkov, Zahari Stoyanov? Burov: "Ask me, Mr Pamukchiev, why do I put Panayot Volov in the number of the four greatest Bulgarians? He is the only person in Bulgarian history who has given up his post, his rights, his glory, his vanity, everything about the Fatherland, for Bulgaria, when he is elected the chief apostle of the Fourth Revolutionary District Gyurgevo, a simple karabadji from Koprivshtitsa, Georgi Benkovski, and Panayot Volov takes him as his assistant. And then, when he saw that this simple karabadji was a genius, that he was born to be a leader, a general, that he was better and more worthy than him, he handed over his authority to him, he went on line two, and Benkovski went out in the lead. There is no case in the history of the world! This is a single case and that makes him the Bulgarian from Shumen Panayot Volov! Dear colleagues, my name may be great, but my case is not Panayot Volov's. Members of the National Assembly, if you have the opportunity, be great Bulgarians! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-17.u364	Anybody else want to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the discussion. We are going to vote on the read-out drafts of decisions. They voted 122 MPs: 117, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] We've run out of agendas for today. Thank you. The next regular meeting will take place on Wednesday, 22 December 2021, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
