ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting! [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, today we have a single item on the agenda, namely a hearing of Minister Boyko Rashkov and Minister Yanaki Stoilov regarding a request for early termination of the mandate of Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev. According to... Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest you put to the vote the inclusion of BNT1 and BNR cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u3	Thank you. Please vote on such a procedural proposal. Vote 166 MPs: 145, against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Please activate BNT and BNR cameras. We shall begin the hearing according to art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! For a declaration on behalf of the group "Democratic Bulgaria." The State Department report on the investment climate was published. It's not a question of whether it's a State Department report. Unfortunately, he tells us things that we know and that we cannot take action on. But this is a report read by the entire world's investment community. He sets the tone of what Bulgaria can receive as investments, such as a surge of capital and know-how, so that it can develop. This report in 24 places mentions the word "Corruption." This is probably the hardest association in the heads of the entire investment community, which has a global one with Bulgaria, thanks to GERB and DPS, with the decisive role of DPS. This is an extremely heavy sentence and a burden that Bulgaria must find a way to solve. The price of corruption is not limited at all to what was stolen. Someone had calculated that a year in Bulgaria deviated about 10 billion, but the cost of corruption is not limited by this 10 billion. This price includes the waste of inefficiency. This price includes missed investments, which are huge. This price includes the most important lost investment "Young minds of Bulgaria," which do not invest their energy and their intelligence here, but elsewhere. I recently spoke with one of the biggest Bulgarian IT companies, which has a chance to soon become the so-called unicorn, i.e. a company whose value exceeds a billion. They're hiding. They hide completely consciously because they are afraid of the Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian authorities. They want to invest here, but actually do you know where in the expansion of business? In Italy, in Spain. Not because they are bad, on the contrary they are people, by the way, with impressive patriotism, attitude towards Bulgaria, emotionally, deeply, simply because there is better. These are people who register their companies in England, where they pay higher taxes to avoid the legal uncertainty of our country. This is a pogrom for the Bulgarian economy, for subsequent generations. We should really put aside political disputes and find a way to get out of this state of affairs. This can only happen in the broadcast of a bold and volitional government, which really has the will, the capacity to implement a consistent program to clear the Bulgarian institutions and turn them from bats and scarecrows into something that attracts investment, which creates a positive image of Bulgaria because we have a total image crisis. I believe Mrs. Sacheva will understand me as a communications specialist. This thing has to happen very quickly. "Democratic Bulgaria" will contribute to this effort, but we want to see a really volitional government and a proposal for a government as a programme and a composition that can really break this corruption disease, which can really leave GERB and DPS out of power, because without that we will infect the next cycle of exercise of power with the same germ of severe corruption. Twenty-four references! And at that time the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is filmed with Delyan Peevski with photos of Delyan Peevski. You are fighting a war with the future of Bulgaria. [[DPS lines.]] That's right. You published this photo, I didn't publish it. You are fighting a war with the future of Bulgaria! That, in addition to being doomed, is extremely dangerous, extremely dangerous. And that is why we will insist that the DPS stay away from management, at least if this government somehow relies on our support. Without that, we can't begin to break away from the corruption womb. We will also insist on judicial reform, because without this, we cannot make a fight against corruption a real one, which means the chief prosecutor, which means the specialized court, which means the bat, which means KPCONPI and its current leadership. Without that, we can't change that state of affairs. And one more thing, colleagues, with which I will finish there was identified as another problem the unpredictability of legislation. We need to seriously... We are now in a hurry to send out committees and we are in a hurry, but we need a serious debate on how to improve the quality of legislation and its predictability in terms of investment and we will have to think about how to conduct this debate, because obviously the way things have been done now is not working well. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u6	Thank you, Madam President. It's the way it's supposed to be. Dear Madam President, I ask you, from this platform, when some people speak, to sometimes make remarks to them, and if necessary, sometimes to define different concepts that they use. The party of the oligarch and media monopoly Prokopiev, who through media-NGO-reketa participates in all three governments of Borisov, cannot accuse a corruption opposition party such as the DPS, which has not been involved in power throughout this period. By definition there is corruption where there is power, and this particular oligarch party and media monopoly participates in all these governments through its media-NGO-recast because it has not won elections in two of these governments. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u7	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Does anyone else want the word for a group statement? I can't see. Moving on to the hearing: HEARING OF BOYKO RUSHKOV, OFFICED MINISTER OF INTERNAL WORKS, AND JANAKI STOYLOV, OFFICED MINISTER OF JUSTICE, ON THE BENEFICIARY. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE INTERMEDIATE REQUEST FOR THE PRESENT TERMINATION OF THE HEAD PROCUROR Ivan Geshev. Importers: Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs, 21.7.2021 I'd like to give the floor to one of the importers to state the question of the hearing. You are entitled to five minutes to Minister Rashkov and five minutes to Minister Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u8	Thank you. Madam President, gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The present hearing was requested before this horrific shame, which we had the dubious pleasure of observing yesterday at the Supreme Judicial Council, which fully justified its abbreviational spelling in Latin. The political caste, which left his dirty paws on the judiciary and on justice in general, earned complete applause yesterday for that. Thirty-two years took place in justice and the judiciary, bringing it to the point that yesterday their representatives presented a five-hour plea in defence, notice, the Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev.. not of the prosecution, not of justice, but of a natural person Ivan Stoimenov Geshev. At the moment, this is the most visible boil on the body of justice, what poisons the idea of justice, the idea of the rule of law, the idea of rule of law. For most of you and for normal citizens, the rule of law is just an empty word on paper or a word that they hear on TV. The rule of law is a simple thing, means the uniform application of the law to all of us.................. to a king, to a master and to ordinary citizens. If anyone ever asks the question: why for 12 years Boyko Borisov committed all kinds of acts with impunity, the answer is one prosecution, the Prosecutor General. Why did the thefts lead to our first priority in corruption? The answer is once again one of the chief prosecutors, and the chief prosecutor is not just a position, has a name for Tsatsarov in the previous term, Ivan Geshev in the current term. These are the people who allowed the law to be used as a bat against ordinary citizens. That's it. This is the reason why I took the liberty of inviting two ministers of the service, they accepted. For those who have short-term memory problems, in the 45th Assembly GERB ministers were so unkind not to come because who are we? This is how Boyko Borisov taught them in 12 years that parliament does not matter. In my world, in our world, in the normal world, the parliamentary republic is the power, not the man of the jeep, not the chief prosecutor, protected by the lawsuits, the parliamentary republic, the representation of every Bulgarian citizen. I will be very brief, as I am convinced that the two ministers of the service will be so kind as to provide us with extensive information on this matter and I will ask them one question at a time to each of them. Mr. Rashkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u9	It's an opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u10	Mr. Hadjigenov, you are currently presenting the questions to the hearing, and the questions are in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u11	Yes, Madam President. In spite of everything, yes. Mr. Rashkov, I have one question for you: Is Chief Prosecutor Ivan Gheshev untouchable? My question to Minister Stoilov is a little longer. Lawyer Mincho Spasov the other day was kind enough to expose his own investigation into Ivan Geshev's diploma and competence. Would you like to conduct an inspection, as far as the jurisdiction depends on the Justice Department? Is Ivan Geshev's diploma and educational value, an ordinary militiaman, really fit to be a law-abiding lawyer? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Since there's still time for the exhibition, does anyone else want the floor? Does anyone else want the word, or are we going straight to asking questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u13	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! The fact is, with yesterday's decision, the Supreme Judicial Council practically committed suicide. A truly disgraceful decision that gives either incompetence or unwillingness to respect a constitutional right of the Minister of Justice. The shame is for the Supreme Judicial Council, but I think shame is also for the political forces whose representatives voted yesterday not to discuss Minister Yanaki Stoilov's proposal as unacceptable. These political forces themselves marked their representatives of which country stand on the side of the status quo or on the side of change. In fact, the representatives of these political forces chose Chief Prosecutor Ivan Geshev and kept him in every offense against him and, in my opinion, they should be named here in this Chamber because from here will also be the proposals for changes in the way the Supreme Judicial Council is elected. The coalition that protects the Attorney General, the coalition that sees the Attorney General in the mirror, must be named. There are the representatives of GERB, of the DPS, of the attack and of the BSP. This is the coalition that took away the constitutional right of the Justice Minister to request a procedure for the release of the Attorney General. I am sure that in his exhibition, the Minister of Justice will also state his view of whether because of incompetence members of the Supreme Judicial Council decided that it was a disciplinary procedure and where do they draw such claims that it is possible for the Prosecutor General to be disciplined? In fact, it is a constitutional right of the Minister, which is absolutely clear. He may propose the appointment of any magistrate, prosecutor, investigator or judge and may request his release. With regard to the Prosecutor General, the possibility is a single procedure for his release, not a procedure for disciplinary punishment, which will ultimately be bound by limitation periods and other procedural pitfalls. So my question, since we've gone through the other procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u14	We're not past it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u15	Anyway, we'll expect an exhibition from the two ministers. My question to Mr. Yanaki Stoilov now...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u16	You will have the right, Mrs. Manolova, to ask yourself that within the time of your parliamentary group. Do you have anything on the exhibit?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u17	So, honourable ministers, we expect in your reply to the National Assembly, to the Bulgarian citizens, to the Bulgarian magistrates, except to state your reasons for depositing this request, but also to state your expectations for action by the national representation. What do you think are the legit actions that can complete the procedure that you started? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I take the floor at the beginning in the manner of conduct, as the procedure is a little more complicated and if it starts with a violation, there is no way it can end in the right order. First, 10 minutes is the attitude of one importer, Madam President, and not three importers to complement each other for three minutes, but anyway, then the ministers twice five minutes, and then the questions in the order of the parliamentary groups are questions first round, second round, not who wants to get up and ask questions from the parliamentary tribune. I ask you to really follow the rules and regulations in order to complete the procedure in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u20	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. It's about hearing two ministers, so the time is doubled. There are several importers, so they were supplemented over time, which had.. both of them five minutes each. I give the floor to Minister Boyko Rashkov to inform the National Assembly on the issues subject to the hearing. You're entitled to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u21	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for the invitation, because it relates to our participation, of course, to an extremely important issue which, so far in this House, has not been dealt with, but is about time. Secondly, yesterday, of course, this is the occasion, there was a meeting of the Supreme Judicial Council on imported material by the Minister of Justice. I must say right now that this material was prepared by me personally. And to respond to some speculation, I would say that this is not a political document, as I heard somewhere. This material was prepared last year, it is preceded by signals that have sent professional organizations. For example, the Union of Judges has three times referred to the Supreme Judicial Council, numerous legal groups also, I will not miss the Helsinki Committee, I will not miss the Supreme Lawyers Council, the Bulgarian Human Rights Lawyers Foundation and others. On these signals, I stress, once again, the Supreme Judicial Council has not paid absolutely no attention, and now that these same signals form part of this material submitted yesterday by the Minister of Justice, it is said that they have expired deadlines. From here, each of you can conclude whether at all in the Supreme Judicial Council someone intended to examine them. Last year, I wasn't a member of a political cabinet, but I was a professor at a university when I prepared this material. When I was discussing whether to submit this material to the Supreme Judicial Council, I had to do so through the Minister of Justice, but I had no illusion that the Minister of Justice at that time would submit this material to the Supreme Judicial Council. I think it's an axiomatic situation that doesn't need proof in our country. And now, from the moment I joined the cabinet, in the caretaker government, I began to think about whether a similar event before the elections would be interpreted completely in a coup d'état. So I decided and suggested that the Minister of Justice after the elections become what was done. Get to the point. First of all, the signal is oriented towards the behaviour of the Republic's Attorney General. Since his inauguration, even before that, when the candidacy was discussed, there have been numerous signals that have been sent to both the Supreme Judicial Council and the President of the Republic. I'd like to remind you that the president refused the first time for a reason, but the second time, of course, under Constitution and Law, he couldn't refuse. On these signals then, too, no one paid absolutely no attention. And after the appointment of Mr. Ivan Geshev as Prosecutor General, there were many facts that could not stay away from our attention, and they are concentrated here. First of all, I will draw attention to the free and illegal export of data collected by special intelligence means. It is known to lawyers that such data cannot be freely exported to the public. They can by law, this is explicitly stated in art. Art. 32, Art. 33 of the Special Intelligence Means Act, to be used solely and solely for the purposes of criminal proceedings and for the protection of national security. This is what the text of art. 32. Art. 33 of the same law states that persons to whom these facts have become known are obliged not to disclose them. In this particular case, we are faced with a hypothesis when they are disclosed. They were made public at the insistence and order of the Attorney General on the prosecution's website at the moment when the Prosecutor General made a request to the Constitutional Court to respond to something that is very clear under Constitution and Law: is there or is no immunity the President? However, the removal of these data to the prosecution's website, naturally, seems to me, and you will agree, there is no task and purpose to assist in revealing the objective truth in these cases that are being conducted there, nor even less to the protection of national security. The question arises: then why did Mr. Geshev make this action, what is the purpose? The goal is what he accepted from the former prime minister, confrontation and pressure of the Head of State. The first step that was taken was taken with that exact act of his. There is no other purpose I see there is no procedural purpose. At the same time, in our Penal Code there is one text of art. 145a, where such behavior is incriminated. It literally states the following: The person who leaked information collected by special intelligence means is punished by imprisonment and, I stress, in the caselaw, there are cases of conviction of an individual for this particular crime. And since it is explicitly stated in our Constitution that Bulgaria is the rule of law, we must ask ourselves the question, since one person has been convicted of such a crime and now another has committed such a crime, should criminal proceedings be initiated against this or not? I am deeply convinced that such pre-trial proceedings must be initiated, but they have not been initiated, although the Constitutional Court has explained that every prosecutor in our country can, has the right to start such criminal proceedings. And since it has been many months and a year and a half since then, and no prosecutor has shown the courage to initiate such proceedings, I will refer to a certain level after this meeting of prosecutors and I will expect any decision from him with this part of the signal submitted to the Supreme Judicial Council, which concerns these actions of the Prosecutor General. Then we will all see if the prosecution will respond at all to similar signals. And then we have to keep an eye on if any other citizen acts like this, whether the prosecution will initiate proceedings against him. Because double standards aren't right, they're something other than law. We also have a similar case with regard to the wiretapping of citizens, rather these events are related to one defendant. But there was also data collected with special intelligence resources from a conversation with this man, this defendant, a former MP, of a journalist. Since next week you'll want to ask: are there any journalists being bugged, I'll answer: yes, they've been bugged. And I'm going to give this particular example, and I'm not going to forget it. [[(Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov: Is Bozhkov a journalist?]] Madam President, is it customary for me to be replicated from place to place?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u22	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u23	Please! This is the culture of some MPs, unfortunately, which is seen by absolutely everyone. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] And such arrogant behavior we observed very actively in 1995, 1996, 1997, when in our country there were some force groups that abused people. Their behavior was as arrogant as it is now here in the Chamber some have taken the liberty, to be very sad. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] And whether these special intelligence means are used in relation to defendants or not, there is a presumption of innocence. It is necessary for someone who claims that someone else is guilty to prove it in court and before that no one has the right to disclose such information publicly, because it also affects the interests of those citizens who have absolutely no relation to any crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u24	Mr. Rashkov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u25	When it's over, I'll continue with the questions I'm about to be asked. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u26	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u27	Madam President, honourable Members! It is my honor to stand on this highest political stand, this time in another capacity. I expect the MPs to contribute to the rehabilitation of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Bulgaria. [[(Applause from the BSP for ……]] Moreover, the results of the parliamentary elections favour this process. Now on the subject of the hearing. In my capacity as Minister of Justice on 14 July 2021, information was received from Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov about the alleged violations of Ivan Geshev as Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. Having examined the information provided, I believe that there is evidence of acts and omissions of the Attorney General, which constitute a serious violation of the duties and actions affecting the prestige of the judiciary, which is why I submitted a proposal to the Supreme Judicial Council on 16 July 2021 to discuss this matter, I scheduled a meeting that took place yesterday, and I will inform you shortly afterwards of its results. Since I have submitted to the Supreme Judicial Council to discuss Boyko Rashkov's information, which contains facts, data and statements, it is not necessary to recreate them in my proposal. My motives are basically narrowed down to a few groups. They refer to the constitutional grounds which I mentioned, and in particular: disclosure of data from pre-trial proceedings, in that selective and tendential; public statements and comments showing bias and bias and breaching the presumption of innocence; lack of equal criteria in the assessment and actions in cases involving persons occupying senior government positions; use of officers from the Bureau for witness protection to carry out search and seizure in the building of the Presidency, which is abuse of their duties; violates the principle of separation of authorities and unacceptable violation of another constitutionally established institution; neglecting the principle of accidental distribution of cases by setting up specialized departments in the Sofia District and City Prosecutors' Offices Offices, in whose personnel are involved seconded prosecutors calling into question their independence. A number of actions by the Prosecutor General, which contain data in the information submitted to me, are contrary to the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian magistrates, approved by the Supreme Judicial Council, and especially with the principles of impartiality, confidentiality, as well as obligations as administrative supervisor. The prestige of the judiciary is presented as a constitutional value in art. 129, para. 3, p. 5 of the Constitution. In this regard, there are more general statements of the Constitutional Court and, in art. 175, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary provides that an administrative manager is to be dismissed from office early on any of the grounds of art. 129, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Among them is t. 5 A serious violation or systematic failure to comply with the duties and actions which undermine the prestige of the judiciary. Therefore, on the basis of the quoted text in relation to art. 173, para. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary as Minister of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria I proposed that the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council rule on the existence of circumstances under art. 129, para. 3, p. 5 of the Constitution for the early release of Ivan Stoimenov Geshev from the post of Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria. Yesterday some of you at least followed the Supreme Judicial Council meeting, which lasted about 7 hours. Finally, notice, it ended with a decision: the Minister of Justice's proposal for the release of the Attorney General, which was adopted by 12 to 8 votes, leaves without consideration. Seven hours of discussions in which almost all members of the Supreme Judicial Council discussed not only the issues of eligibility but also the justification, the merits of the proposal I submitted. I mean, professionally, legally and even more socially, I believe that my proposal largely fulfilled its role, but it was not just an act to provoke a discussion that I knew would not have any effect on. I have no illusion that this Chamber of the Supreme Judicial Council would come to another decision on the substance. What puzzles me and I do not accept is that after the discussion affected all aspects of the problem, it finally ended with a statement that the Supreme Judicial Council had not actually considered what it had discussed for seven hours. But, of course, there must be arguments on eligibility. I said that the proposal that I have made corresponds to a power which I believe is given to the Minister of Justice under art. 130c of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as Minister of Justice according to c. 3 of the text cited may make proposals for appointment, promotion, reduction, removal and dismissal of judges, prosecutors and investigators. Each of the highest executives in the judiciary is also a magistrate, in this case a prosecutor. So in the general sense of the provision cited, I have a procedural legitimization to submit this proposal to the Supreme Judicial Council. It seems, however, that some members of the Supreme Judicial Council believe that only questions to the Prosecutor General can ask people who are in the hierarchy of the Prosecutor's Office itself. Because the other option is a certain number of members of the Supreme Judicial Council to begin this procedure. This makes me think that with some of these people we have not only a difference in certain facts, in some legal qualifications we have conceptual differences about what a division of authorities is. Can an institution such as the Minister of Justice, which is the sole member of the Supreme Judicial Council, without being a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, without having the right to vote, engage in any interference in the independence of the judiciary, raising issues that society, the judiciary, must debate? Accordingly, I raise the question of each of the entities who under the Constitution have the right to ask for an interpretation from the Constitutional Court, which could also be done by the government, I do not know whether, within the mandate of the caretaker government, we will succeed, but a request for an interpretation can be made to the Constitutional Court: what is the actual meaning of the constitutional text quoted by me and in a broader context how is the interaction between the Supreme Judicial Council and the other institutions? I continue to believe that our Constitution and, to a large extent, the legislation have instruments to ensure the necessary interaction between the authorities. It is true that the authority implementing these provisions, in this case, the Supreme Judicial Council, gives its interpretation, but I consider it a coup d'état. This is an attempt to have the defense shield of the Attorney General move out to a very forward stage so that no one after me can put the same question to the Supreme Judicial Council. So this was the battle that took place at the Supreme Judicial Council, not so much for justification, not so much for foundation in substance, where everyone is free to make his judgment. Furthermore, it should be known that the Constitution itself uses broader concepts only to certain categories of officials, to magistrates, along with formal and legal requirements, it sets requirements for moral qualities. Therefore, this assessment is as legal as it is moral if you want to be public-political. It's a standard that needs to be built. For some the standards of this standard can be very low, for others, as the society requires, it must be much higher. And that is precisely why I do not believe that the reference to disciplinary proceedings is justified. There is no degree in sanctioning the high representatives of the judiciary, they are fit or unfit for the position they hold. They cannot be sanctioned in a cascade with lighter or heavier penalties. Therefore, it is in the order in which they are elected that, in the same order, an early exemption may be granted upon the finding of those circumstances.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u29	And the last, Madam President, is to complete my introduction, is that here we must distinguish the nature of the procedure. It is, of course, not a vote of mistrust, which Parliament can do as appropriate, it is not a disciplinary procedure as for magistrates. If any comparisons are sought, they are closer to the impeachment procedure, which is in our country, let's say, for the president, who is legal, but within himself integrates a much wider range of motives and reasons that can give the authority reasons to make such a decision. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the procedure we will proceed to the first questions to Minister Boyko Rashkov. After their exhaustion we will move on to the first questions to Minister Yanaki Stoilov, then we will move on to the second questions that you have the right to ask. There is such a people and you are entitled to a question to Minister Boyko Rashkov within two minutes. Will you take advantage of it? There aren't any. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS? There aren't any. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u31	Thank you. Dear Mr. Rashkov, Minister of the Interior! What does the Special Intelligence Act say in a nutshell? I think it's necessary to say here, in this room, not everyone knows him, a few basic things. The use of special intelligence means shall, first, temporarily restrict the privacy of the individual; special intelligence means shall be used where necessary to prevent serious and intentional crimes; the results obtained by means of special intelligence means shall not be used for anything other than the prevention, detection and proof of criminal offences and the protection of national security. And the last thing that is imperative and I think the most important thing is the people who have become aware of the facts and information about the SRS are obliged not to disclose them. The spread of the SRS, which has been clearly applied to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, is it legal for you? What imposed this spread despite the imperative ban on the law? Was the president's privacy damaged, and on what grounds? Did all this lead to the destruction and prejudice of the prestige of the judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u32	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u33	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I already have two questions: one of them is from Mr. Hadjigenov, can I answer it too?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u34	No, let it be Mr. Hadjigenov's turn, and if he asks you, then you can answer. Now Mr. Popov and the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u35	Yes, Mr. Popov's, okay. Thank you. It is true that with special intelligence means, both throughout the civilized world and in our country, since 1997, such order has been introduced for their implementation, but not for all crimes, but, first, against only serious intentional crimes, and they not all of the NK, but specifically and comprehensively referred to in art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on SRS and Art. 182, para. 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. So it can't be in relation to every crime, and it has to be violently deliberate and, I repeat, specifically stated in the law. They, of course, secretly restrict citizens' fundamental rights, privacy, privacy of housing, the privacy of correspondence. These are the main objectives and tasks. With regard to persons with immunity, the law does not allow the use and application of special intelligence means. He won't let me! From the particular case with the President last year it did not become very clear, first of all, for what crime was the general air force commander seen in general, then General Stoykov. It doesn't make sense because this wasn't announced by the Attorney General. He'll, uh, talk about it further, selectively disclose, so that he can instill into society what he wants, not what he needs to do by law in an investigation. That's where the lines were published, the conversation, the communication that was held with the president. This communication should have been destroyed, not stored, because it contains no evidence of a serious intentional crime for which special intelligence means can be used and applied. In the so-called order for suspension of proceedings, the person who has drawn it up, signed it and so on, mentions a crime under art. 319, which is punishable by up to three years in prison. I did not for a reason say that only in relation to certain crimes is the use and application of special intelligence means legally permissible. I would definitely like to say to you that in relation to this crime under art. 319, mentioned in the Prosecutor's decree, cannot and is unacceptable to use special intelligence means. At the moment when it was found that one party was the President of the Republic, who had the highest immunity in Bulgaria, should have, first of all, immediately ceased the wiretap and, second of all, the collected facts through this eavesdropping to be destroyed. This has not been done, and therefore it is very easy now for you to conclude what was the goal of Geshev then, since he has not implemented the law, but has published this material so that everyone can read it. Does he then engage in political activity or not, if he does not perform his duties by law as Prosecutor General, who under Constitution and by law must exercise supervision of legality over all of us, but obviously not in respect of his own conduct, if he permits himself to break the law?! In the same way, it's not just in the President's case. There it is clear what is the aim of the political compromise of the Head of State. There is no other purpose, no purpose relating to criminal proceedings. Since then, to this day, no one in society has been aware of what happened to this pre-trial proceedings. General Stoykov is also not attracted as a defendant and the question arises: is there an authorisation against him to use special intelligence means then, or are they directly with regard to the President, who is immune and this by law is inadmissible? These questions were to be answered, honourable Members, yesterday in the debate which began at the Supreme Judicial Council. But apparently there, such a debate will never begin with this composition, which has this state body, which is the supreme judicial authority. This is therefore one of the reasons why it is finally announced that this proposal, which has been made, is unacceptable. And do you see how many facts at just one point of the proposal had to be clarified so as to cross this practice at the very least?! Let another Attorney General come, who will at least obey the law. For identical reasons, other persons are also subject to eavesdropping. Of course, this is also a manner here, and last year the communication was announced, exposed, officially distributed. What's the target? To show in space a communication of people who were not involved in any criminal activity. And isn't this aimed at compromising these individuals..a violation of their reputation, image and so on? In such cases, something else is done in practice. Okay, we've intercepted a call like this, but there's no mention of the person's name. At least indicate some initials, say, it's either a man, or it's a two-letter name, it's written, it's not a demonstration of how much we know what people are talking about. And there's something else in that relationship. Let's make it clear what kind of Attorney General we have. Selecting separate passages from phone communication, from chat also, selecting and publishing exactly what the Attorney General likes. Here in this material there are several such examples given. [[Noise and lines.]] Not only read the material to make it clear to you the selection that is legally inadmissible. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Now listen to me, you're interfering. This selection is unacceptable because in art. 287a of the Penal Code (c. 2, if memory serves, this thing is declared a crime not by me, but by a parliament like yours, like ours. It is criminal to select and arrange the facts so that by reading it later, to give a specific meaning to these circumstances, to instill something else as obvious as the Attorney General was ordered to do. To instill something in society! I would like to say something very interesting that our chief prosecutor made a statement in the media in which he stated that he did not recognise the division of authorities. Can you imagine what a D.A. we have? The device in our country of Constitution since 1991 is in principle: in art. 8 in the Constitution we have a division of authorities.. legislative, executive, judicial. He does not recognise this division of authorities and therefore wants to merge obviously the prosecution and the executive authority something he demonstrates from his inauguration to this day, and to carry out political orders on this benefactor who placed him in this post. The question is: if a Chief Prosecutor of the Republic does not recognise the principle of separation of authorities, what is he doing there in this place? So he doesn't recognize the Constitution and he swears by the Constitution at the same time?! Does he have to stay there? Is it reasonable for this argument to exist in the material and for the Minister of Justice to submit it to the Supreme Judicial Council to be examined? I don't question the need for this at all. Such a chief prosecutor who does not recognise the separation of authorities, that is, does not recognise the Bulgarian Constitution, we have never had one before! Storm to or at the Presidency with the personal guard of Geshev, a brief background. In 1998 the political authorities decided that the National Investigation Service should not have militaryised persons and with a change in the law they were brought and assigned to the Ministry of Justice to carry out the security of detention premises and so on, that is, in our country the political body decided that there could be no uniformed persons in the judiciary, so to say. All of a sudden, what happened? A Bureau for the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure was created, but not at that desk, which was at the beginning when it was formed by law. Now it has become so that 150 people in this desk are eternally with nine to ten million budgets per year, which have police functions and represent really, as some journalists rightly point out, a paramilitary structure. Last year, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, in this unit, in this desk to the Attorney General, where everyone is appointed only by him, received a report that day at the Ministry of Justice. I'm a member of the council there with the Minister of Justice. Here's the D.A.'s report. For the last year " 2020," there is not a single person included in the Protection Program. Not one! It is asked in the task and the question arises: these ten million budgets then what are they used for? The only correct answer, at least in my opinion, is that they're guarding the Attorney General, they're guarding him day and night on a three-day regime, eight hours a team, eight hours another team, that is, the contents, the meaning of the law, are replaced. The law has the title of the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure, and in fact the content of the activity is exhausted with the protection of the Prosecutor General. Such a guard as the chief prosecutor has, is currently not in the Presidency and, Madam President of the Bulgarian Parliament, the high authority in Bulgaria, and you do not have such a security. This paramilitary unit broke into the presidency last year. Now it is said that in the material submitted by the Minister of Justice, there were newspaper things. Yes, there is! There is, yes! In what way can we document the attitude of the Bulgarian society and, of course, the reactions abroad to conclude that the prestige of the judiciary and, of course, the prestige of Bulgaria as a state is flawed? How is this fact proved, which is an element when the Chief Prosecutor's discharge is sought? To that end. And if you pay attention, you will see that these are international media, such as "Reuters", "Bloomberg", "Politico", "Deutsche Welle", "Euro News" and many others. I've saved the others. In these media the headlines are: And in our country, does it matter to the public that this invading started a protest movement with some rather awkward to the Attorney General slogans that are floating there? I can only say a part of them: Geshev is a disgrace! [[Applause from ICN and DB]] [[Applause from ICN and DB.]] And since they were yesterday, I haven't seen them, but whoever wants to see them is asking the question: do these reactions of citizenship in our country have any significance for the assessment of Geshev as Prosecutor General or not? [[Returned to GERB-SDS.]] For you, I'm sure it's the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u36	Mr. Rashkov, I just want to remind you that there will be other questions for you. [[(Reply from DB: Is there a limit?]] There's no limit, so I'm just reminding Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u37	If you want me to sit down again and then get up again, I will. [[Applause from ICN and DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u38	It's procedure. He'll come back to the stands. You have the right to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers! Mr. Rashkov, you are Deputy Prime Minister of Security and Public Order and Minister of Home Affairs, that is to say, in your functions besides the management of the specific office of the Ministry of Interior, is also to oversee, rudely speaking, other structures that are related to the protection of public order and security in the country. Since we are here discussing the issue of the implementation of the special intelligence means, the requests of the special intelligence resources are apart from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and a number of others set out in the Special Intelligence Means Act, my question is related precisely to the beginning of this, the requests and the way in which the special intelligence means are applied, the control over the use of the information acquired, its destruction, storage and so on. And just to remind you that when I said it here yesterday on another occasion, for the first time a legal framework was set up for the implementation of the special intelligence funds, I think it was the first law in 1994, then the prosecution was not mentioned in the law as an applicant for special intelligence funds. The lawmaker's will at the time was that it was not possible for the authority to apply the supervision of legality in a particular activity to have the power to entrust such activities. In this regard, because subsequently during the management of GERB, when the Prosecutor General was Tsatsarov, this legal change was made and the prosecution became an applicant. Prosecutors shall assign the application of special intelligence means and shall use the information obtained to explain that it is necessary in the conduct of pre-trial proceedings for the collection of evidence.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u40	Mr. Atanasov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u41	In this regard, my question is as follows: Do you have specific information, how does the prosecution store the information collected by special means of intelligence and comply with the law of its destruction? Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u42	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u43	Thank you, Madam President. I agree with Mr. Atanasov's opinion because this question is still hanging at present. A long time ago the prosecution didn't have such legal options, now there is. What do they lead to? Then, when a prosecutor asks for permission and receives permission, they shall apply in almost 99% of the cases to work on the relevant pending pre-trial proceedings. That's what I say from personal experience from the recent past. That is, as long as the events last, as long as the tracking continues, the wiretap is not taking any other action. With regard to the storage of materials. There we cannot perform absolutely no inspection. None! Next week, if you are going to want information in this direction, I will inform you in detail that when the office started mass destruction of materials in the structures of the Ministry of Interior and those who could not be destroyed were sent immediately to the Prosecutor's Office in this case most often this was the Special Prosecutor's Office. Once again, our investigation cannot go on there, because, behold, you see an independent judiciary, of course, a division of authorities, of course, but still someone has to control this part of the judiciary, called the Prosecutor's Office. I, in my life as President of the Bureau some time ago, have come across numerous cases most often of the storage of materials that had to be destroyed by law within a certain time limit. I have signed dozens of letters to the then Prosecutor General Tsatsarov for the found infringement, as this is a violation of the procedure without absolutely any effect. None at all! I'm pretty sure that's the way it is right now. And right now it is! They store materials they might ever need. If anyone wants an example, I'll bring it back to what I just said about the president. Something that had to be destroyed, it was preserved and at a certain political moment, chosen by someone and ordered by the Attorney General, this came out in the media. So on this issue, I can't give any more information because the prosecution is a closed institution, it controls itself and, as you heard these days, she said herself that there are no violations, because she knows very well that there is no authority that could verify it. This is our prosecutor's office! I don't know how long this is gonna go on, but she's so out of control right now, starting from the head and getting to the bottom. That's the truth. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u44	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? You don't want to. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have one single question for the Minister of Service Rashkov and he is: is Ivan Stoimenov Geshev untouchable? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u47	Thank you, Madam President. It's exactly the point, if I can give him an evaluation at all. The goal is because we have an event from yesterday, and we have the legal framework. So far, the Attorney General is legal in our country, and as we saw yesterday, our Attorney General is virtually untouchable, so because the Supreme Judicial Council obviously, I doubt that it consists of members, as the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary, by representatives of high professional and moral qualities. I doubt it! Therefore, I particularly and my colleague, have no expectations from this Chamber of the Supreme Judicial Council. They will not seek the responsibility of Ivan Stoimenov Geshev, as Mr. Hadzhigenov said, in any hypothesis, even in so clear cases, described them are not exhaustive, by the way, but in so clear cases in which he does not even comply with the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian magistrate. There are specific cases here, because with these statements which he makes publicly in respect of both persons who are of quality accused or accused and persons who do not have any procedural quality, he thus violates the presumption of innocence. There is a directive that shows us what can and should not be done in such cases. It is prohibited for the magistrate to comment on issues related to persons involved in the process. It's strictly forbidden! And we are the opposite, in the opposite hypothesis, when we have a chief prosecutor who violates the Code, which has been adopted by the Supreme Judicial Council itself. It is possible to comment on this code of conduct, but only when it is permitted....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And such hypotheses have already been mentioned just now in connection with the used and applied special intelligence means, he has also violated the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian magistrates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u48	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. With this, the first round of questions to Minister Rashkov is exhausted. We move on to your questions to Minister Yanaki Stoilov. Will such a people have a question? I can't see. From GERB-SDS? I can't see. I am Minister Yanaki Stoilov from BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u49	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Ministers, Dear Professor Stoilov! A lot of things have been heard. They're gonna keep asking questions. My question to you is brief. You put what you called standards to the test yesterday, and this test was not clearly endured by the Supreme Judicial Council. Please tell us from the heights and from your parliamentary experience: how do you imagine that from now on things must continue and what can parliament do to prevent this vicious interpretation, which you have rightly disproved today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u50	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You will allow me to start a little bit further on Mr. Zarkov's question, because I believe that the legal context should be entered in the overall public context. For years the Bulgarian state has been obsessed with political and economic interests. Usually the name used is oligarchy, this is the deep state and this process is very advanced. By the way, it affects some of the largest and most developed countries, there is no need to close our eyes. It just seems like we're a heavier case in a global process. I'm not going to go into other dimensions of the problem here, they're much more complicated. Even if a dilemma is already emerging, is it possible to protect democracy in the world because democratic states are being weakened and where there are authoritarian "more" or less governance, they seem to be able to create some national capacity, which, however, is at the expense of other values that have been formed and have been defended for decades. I say this to overcome sometimes simple explanations to slide along the surface of events and not see deeper reasons. For me, the main reasons are the ever stronger merger of financial and economic, political and information media power. If you do not find the forces to create any relative division, because we are talking about the separation of state power, but it... the state power, however formally divided, is united behind the scenes by these factors. So if you don't make the business work for development and wealth, if you don't make the policy work for mass public interests, if you don't make the media not just be a projection of political and financial interests, we won't solve the issues in the judiciary. And from here on out, the specific question. She and Mrs. Manolova asked it, I can unite the answer to what needs to be done, but I will try to systematize what I think, without being comprehensive, but it is imperative, on the basis of my experience, as you said. I will begin with the role of the Minister of Justice. Since it has become fashionable when it comes to judicial reform, the conversation is usually about how to change the Constitution once again. Open these books you have, and see how many changes have been made in the judiciary's head. Well, that's where the Constitution starts to look like something between law and regulation. Is the quality of the work of the judiciary substantially changed from these attempts to deal with cases; are the decisions foreseeable; are the persons involved in the administration of the judiciary responsible? Pretty much not. Here it is far from just about criminal justice, as it is a relatively small relative share in the common legal system. Well, notice how many problems we have had with the register proceedings with conflicting practices, even with the conflicting practice of the Supreme Judicial Council itself, in view of the cases, the persons it deals with. So let us learn lessons from bitter experience. I say this because I have been involved in these constitutional changes in some of them with a key role. In some cases from Bulgaria, from the European Union, by its representatives in the field of law and experts, then about 15 years ago, it was required to strengthen the role of the Minister of Justice. Shortly afterwards, the Council of Europe said: "Well, no, the judiciary must be so autonomous that the Supreme Judicial Council does not have almost any significant role for the Minister of Justice, that is, the executive power. Well, where are we gonna swing from one direction to the other? I'm saying this because there's someone else coming after me. Don't defuse it, because through the minister, if he's a responsible man, he may have a voice of society, a voice of parliament, an opportunity for the government to see what's going on. One of the problems that I've faced in these weeks, let's not sound pretentious, a few weeks in which we've tried to change what's been going on for years without erasing any of what needs to be continued. This ministry has been pushed more and more into the periphery, and its role in some cases has been more up to the more appetizing activities which, however, are attached to the infrastructure of the ministry itself, but are carried out by other officers who are nominally subordinate to the minister, but they are also too independent. So if the Minister didn't have this opportunity, today's topic wouldn't be discussed, and you should have gone to ask someone to come outside to inform you to express your opinion. So I suggest that we apply the approach from the base to the top, because there are large reserves, I saw them despite the resistance, despite the momentum. By improving the organization, with improving the quality of individuals can be achieved results. Then comes the regulatory level.......... and legal changes. Changes can be made in the Law on the Judiciary to increase the possibilities for communication between the authorities and for more requirements for the Supreme Judicial Council. With regard to the formation of the very composition of the Supreme Judicial Council. I also need to give a critical assessment here. Did it prevent previous parliaments, when forming the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council, from broadcasting another type of representatives in the parliamentary quota rather than just other persons? Notice, in the current composition of the Supreme Judicial Council only one person is not from the Master's degree. Well, these people are professionally involved before and after they leave the Supreme Judicial Council. Whatever arithmetics you make at the quotas, the judges', parliamentary, at some point they turn out to be almost entirely united by other factors, not by how they were broadcast. Therefore, if at the Supreme Judicial Council the parties used the opportunity to include people who would rather express one public, civic, professional control, in another way "probably better," the Supreme Judicial Council would act. So let's not transfer the responsibilities that are here somewhere else and explain them with just some arithmetical accounts. With regard to specialized justice. From the beginning of next week I will offer you not a bill, but a model of how we can have specialized justice without a specialized prosecutor's office and without a specialized court. That is to say, not bringing all things back to every district court and prosecutor's office, where there are really risks of losing the opportunity to carry out this justice. So it can be found the solution and this decision to preserve, as far as there are positive elements in such a specialization, to simplify the composition........................................................................................... Notice, at the moment, much of the cases are formed by the specialized prosecutor's office against organised criminal groups and thus almost every complicity is qualified as an organised activity, but at the outcome the cases do not come out the same because it turns out that this was a pretext in many cases. So in this model, I think that both parties who state this topic can fulfil their commitment, but they can carry it out in a reasonable, responsible and effective way so that we can counteract crime, especially corruption, because there is a major ulcer and there we see almost no progress. That's one of the problems I think is important. Another thing I expect you to do, and I will offer it to you, because it can also be shaped as an informal bill that the groups that wish can use is to preserve the activities of the current state enterprise. One of the consequences is not particularly favourable to the Public Enterprises Act, which was adopted, supposedly to be independent, but actually to be untouchable, is in the form of professional management to pass other things. But anyway, we have tried, in agreement with some of the other ministries, to give this state structure an opportunity to work. To work because it can produce. It is my experience to prove that the state can also be a good owner if it is managed well, because whoever a prior claims otherwise should not want to take part in the management of the state. If you as a statesman can't show that you manage well, that you run business well, employees in the private sector and prove your abilities. Why can't this enterprise not only transfer working prisoners but also organize activities? Do you know how many farmlands there are? Why should it not produce production that will cheapen food at the expense of the huge public procurements that are being made, or is it more profitable to distribute these financial resources instead of providing work instead of more competitive prices to deliver production and to use it to improve the feeding of prisoners? The Bureau of Defense. Madam President, I have sent a letter to you on 20 July 2021 concerning the regular meeting of the Committee on the Protection of Threatened Persons, which examined the Annual Report of the Prosecutor General. I suggest that the Parliament discuss how to hold a hearing with the Attorney General, but before that to request a report from him on certain issues in application of art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution. In addition to the annual reports that the Prosecutor General should present to the Parliament, other reports may be presented, but it is not necessary to do so only at his initiative. By the way, one of those to whom I did not receive an answer yesterday at the meeting is: has the Attorney General submitted and examined the Supreme Judicial Council such six-month accounts for the last year and a half, which is his duty, with regard to the financial costs of the Bureau, because the Supreme Judicial Council is the one who should discuss the expenditure and expenditure of the Bureau's budget? So I think it's part of the action, and it's not small at all. From then on, let us really continue the discussion on constitutional topics, but go in this sequence. Firstly, this majority, which will form in parliament and which would broadcast and choose a government, prove its substance, prove its public commitment, because if the start of a recovery process is stopped, of limiting it with an effort to eradicate corruption, once again part of the judiciary or the authorities for its governance can be taken over by these factors that we are talking about. So this is the big and heavy task that I hope you can handle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u52	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. In relation to what Mr. Stoilov said, I remind the MPs that according to art. 91 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly one tenth of the MPs or parliamentary group may call for such a request and such a report to be submitted by the Prosecutor General. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u53	Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! The Minister of Justice has made a historic act. It is historical, firstly, because such a thing had not happened in the history of relations between the Ministry and the Supreme Judicial Council regarding the Attorney General. Secondly, because in practice it demonstrates the inability to carry out accountability and responsibility of the Attorney General. In this regard, it is my question to the Minister of Justice. You have partly answered this question: are there currently discussed in the Ministry various options of legislative and constitutional changes to put into practice the accountability and responsibility of the Attorney General in accordance with the European standards of the rule of law and in accordance with the recommendations made by institutions such as the Venice Commission, such as the European Commission, such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation and other European and international institutions, and in the light of the fact that the Ministry is developing a strategy for continuing the judicial reform one has already expired last year, and I assume that a new strategic document is under way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u54	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the first question was more general, I took more time. I'll try to be brief in the next answers to questions. A few changes are being discussed, which I hope will be completed next week. One of them I have already told you to offer a model for the transformation of specialized justice in Bulgaria. We will also propose amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship so as to remove investment citizenship. Bulgaria is one of the few countries that continue to trade with this public institute. The other change concerns the enterprise at the Directorate General's Office. The next issue, which is too sensitive and will have to deal with its resolution in the coming months, is the subject of the judicial card. I believe that the activity that we have shown, the dialogue that we have had with almost all professional organisations in the judiciary, makes it possible not to let the Supreme Judicial Council decide on its own. It requires legislative changes. There is indeed a need for some changes in the case of active courts, but an assessment must be made that is far from just legal. It does not only concern how the magistrates will feel better, but must really meet all these expectations of legal professions and especially of Bulgarian citizens. With regard specifically to Mr. Slavov's question of what we can do in the development of judicial reform, I can give an example of the finalisation of the Stability and Stability Plan, which the Justice Reform Council will discuss at the beginning of next week before his final adoption by the Council of Ministers. It is possible to propose a model for control of the Prosecutor General instead of creating a separate structure, such attempts which were made by the previous majority. The Constitutional Court has ruled that these actions are contrary. By the way, they are not popular in Europe, you know that very well and I am not a supporter of that kind of decision. But the political weakness of the majority seemed to suppress it to have a meaningful dialogue with the European institutions. We must learn Bulgaria to offer working solutions, not to imitate solutions. For a long time advice, committees, strategies have been created, meaning things that are a verbal expression of something that should give the impression of activity, but behind it have continued old practices. So I think it's much more working to appoint an ad hoc prosecutor to conduct an investigation. And in order not to be dependent on him afterwards, if he is to be given the opportunity of career development after the proceedings is completed in another judicial sector, that is, for example, to make a judge or a person who will no longer have to work in the system. There are opportunities for these issues to be dealt with in an objective way, not within the hierarchical structure. We have not dealt with the Constitution because these three months of the caretaker government had to apply the energy in practically achievable results. Did you know that in 2017 the connection of the Bulgarian Trade Register with the European System And if we were just hanging out in the high constitutional floors, it meant we didn't have to finish these pressing questions. So, in my opinion, this topic is open, it should be discussed mainly in parliament, and not to make assignations to some people to imitate the creation of a new Constitution, which has been experienced recently. Therefore, I believe that all practical issues that affect Bulgarian citizens should in no way be abandoned, the discussion on the constitutional topic should go along with them and not at the expense of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u56	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Do you have a question for Mr. Stoilov from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? You don't. And stand up BG! We're coming! Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Minister Stoilov, my question to you is this. The competence of the Ministry of Justice is to carry out a check regarding Ivan Geshev's competence. Is the diploma issued by the famous Magnaur School of State Decree, which does not exist on the data from lawyer Mincho Spasov the other day, fit to challenge competence? Is the certificate presented by him to the Supreme Judicial Council actually valid? And does he have the qualities required by the Law and the Constitution to take up the position of Attorney General? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u58	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u59	Madam President! Mr. Hadzhigenov, for me the more recent question is the current state and the actions of the Attorney General, but there is a reason to raise questions from previous periods. I've seen such public statements. The Minister of Justice attests the acquired legal capacity, that is, after the persons have graduated after having completed the required internship and have passed the theoretical-practical exam, I issue, sign legal certificates, but they suggest that there is a valid diploma for acquired legal education, which can currently only be a Master's degree of education, or those which are formally aligned to it, if this happened at periods when there was no distinction between a Bachelor's degree and a Master's degree. I suggest that you make an official request to the Minister of Education, because the Ministry of Education and Science is the authority that attests the existence of a certain education to an appropriate degree. We have to communicate in relation to, say, cases that arise in relation to some of the legal faculties, whether all the requirements of the Ordinance on the acquisition of legal education have been met, but the principal addressee is the Minister of Education. We do not keep information about the diplomas issued, so that the answer to this question can be received by the Minister of Education. If it is necessary to assess the data itself that will be given, perhaps the two ministries can communicate in order to clarify the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u60	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. We move on to the second questions to Minister Rashkov. There is such a people? Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Rashkov, my question is related to a mythical list of 38 persons that you mentioned.. 27 magistrates and 11 persons holding senior positions in the executive and legislative authorities who have not declared their accounts or properties abroad. A little chronology. The prosecution denied such a list to exist shortly after your speech about it. Subsequently, the National Revenue Agency said that part or most of these persons were being checked, but, unfortunately, the results of this verification did not become public. You subsequently mentioned that the list is much larger and it includes 70 or 80 persons who have, in one way or another, not legally declared their properties and accounts abroad. You said you would make it public after the elections or before the National Assembly committee, which was eventually formed for this purpose. My question is: are you ready to publish or share the names on this list? Does it exist and does it include the face Ivan Geshev in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u63	Mrs. Chairman! I have to admit, if not today, and on some previous days we were holding this hearing, you would have made it difficult for me, but now you can't make it difficult for me. [[Radio in IHN.]] Because the list is already out and anyone can see it. I had several times to appeal to the prosecution to publish this list of these 38 people, 27 magistrates and 11 politicians at different levels. I don't see Ivan Geshev here. The message is from the prosecutor's office, we have to admit, and that according to the verification carried out, yes, there are indeed assets abroad, but they have already been declared. So we had to wait for about two years so we could now say that everything was declared. [[Radio in IHN.]] Congratulations! We've declared everything and everything is right. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u64	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u65	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Minister of the Service, honourable Members! Just to start with: I was a student in the 1990s, I wasn't a mug, and you were the head of the National Investigation Service 1995, in 1997, in the most violent years. I don't know what you were doing there, but I remember we used to stone you at one time. I've been to protests, by the way. Just so you know. [[Laughter at ISN and IBBNI.]] But my protests were against Mr. Rashkov, against Jean Videnov and so on. Secondly, I have one specific question. Because you're no longer the head of the National Investigation in the most violent years, but a moral officer of the nation and you say who's up, who's not up, who's what, you tell me who's going to become the Attorney General and end this week. You obviously have some options. You can also ask yourself the former Chief of Staff, who, with the list, filed his resignation immediately. No, when you're a moral officer of the nation, you have to answer such questions. I, uh, you probably checked me out, you'll see that I don't have 19 properties, I have an apartment there. [[IHN lines: "What is the question? "]] My question is, who would be the Attorney General? Nominate him on behalf of the President, on behalf of Mr. Bozhkov and on behalf of other operationally interesting persons. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here you are, Minister Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll correct the questioner. I was, first, Deputy Director of the Service until 1995, then I was six years Director of the National Investigation Service. When I was elected MP, I sat here and behaved much better than you! [[Burnous applause from ICN, DB, BSP for Bulgaria and IBGNI.]] I have written as an MP for four years more than a hundred texts by law, and I believe that I have been useful to the nation. As for Mutrenian times, I only regret one thing that we didn't deal with your leader then! [[World and long applause from ICN, DB, BSP for Bulgaria.]] But there's time. [[Laughter and applause from IHN, DB, BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u68	Mr. Rashkov, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u69	It's up to you. Give me that chance. [[Applause from ICN, DB, BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u70	Mr. Bikov, what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u71	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u72	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u73	If you'd like a personal explanation. You didn't do anything then, Mr. Rashkov! The worst years were then. You failed with Georgi Iliev, you failed with Vasil Iliev, you failed with Ilia Pavlov. You've brought this country to ruin. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u74	Mr. Bikov, this is not the way to lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u75	And now you've come here to be the moral stand of this nation?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u76	Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u77	You can't be a moral officer because we remember... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off. Loud noise and lines. Commendations: "Woo" by ISN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u78	Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u79	Madam President, honourable Members, in the manner of conduct. When a minister of service stands on this platform in the National Assembly and starts to distribute qualifications with respect to MPs, citizens and pray to make him minister in one of the following cabinet: "Ama, give me the opportunity." [[noise and lines]] I am a little strange and a little surprised by the silence of the President of the National Assembly. The fact that we violate parliamentaryism with your help, colleagues, every minute is a fact. However, the fact that you cannot agree in your couloirs and in your offices who to make minister, who to arrest and who to be your flagship of terror, but you do it from the stands of the National Assembly and you do not take attitude, this is already the bottom of parliamentaryism. Believe me! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u80	Please don't enter into any debate with each other. Mr. Manev, I warned Minister Rashkov to move on to the specific answer to the question. He made this qualification since he was challenged by the MP Toma Bikov since he began this way. [[(Applause from IHN, BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria), DB, IBGNI.)]] He didn't move on to his question. [[(Applause from IHN, BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria), DB, IBGNI.)]] You've been challenging the minister from the beginning, and then you're angry at his reaction. He's a minister and you have to respect him as a minister! [[(Applause from IHN, BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria), DB, IBGNI.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u81	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Please adhere to the Rules of Procedure, which is temporary, and to the position you hold at first level, to respect all Members of the Parliament if the Prime Minister is speaking from this stand. You twice allowed him to give qualifications to MPs without interrupting it, and then unacceptable to me by procedure in the manner of keeping Mr. Bikov stopped his microphone. Please treat the MPs with respect as we treat you. Although first among equals, you must also give transparency from this tribune to have an honest dialogue. Here praise us to listen to the Council of Ministers, if it is temporary, we are not here. We have specific questions to answer. Who's done what the '90s has done? We've all seen it. So thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Since I didn't take away Mr. Bikov's word at the beginning when I turned to Minister Rashkov, so I also allowed Minister Rashkov to react that way. He just defended himself. Let us respect our ministers even though they are ministers of the service, please! [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, let's have tolerance and have the same behavior as each other. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u83	I didn't insult him, I said he was the head of the National Investigation Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u84	Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u85	Dear Madam President, dear Professor Stoilov, dear Mr. Rashkov, honourable colleagues! I take the floor in the manner of conduct, and I will solidarity myself with the view of the previous colleague that a little order should be put in place, not to spill out in the speeches. However, it is insane for fellow MPs from a party whose prime minister has not stepped foot in parliament for years to talk about violating parliamentaryism. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please adjust the process a little and cool the passions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u86	Thank you. We are moving on to a question from BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u87	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Rashkov, with great amazement I understand that the Prosecutor General has not respected the power of the imperative provision of art. 9 of the Law on the Judicial Authority. The cases should be distributed on a random basis, provided that he himself must monitor compliance with the law by leading the investigation and overseeing its lawful conduct. It is inexplicable from a legal point of view that the Prosecutor General has put in place a practice to appoint a monitoring prosecutor in pre-trial proceedings which is not public, namely by a resolution of the Administrative Director. So we have a subjective selection here, not a random one. This is a rude and deliberate violation, which gives reason to doubt in the public how independent these prosecutors are, since in most part they have been posted, they have not grown up careerally, have not appeared in competitions. The other doubt is that in order to grow up in the hierarchy, they will carry out the commandant's will and will comply with his wish, which is hardly useful for the penalty process for the racing start, and the presumption of innocence is left behind. I have a feeling that people have a feeling that certain prosecutors have been used to put pressure on business competitors or political opponents. Mr. Minister, my question to you is as follows: has an analysis been made on which particular cases of prosecutors have been determined by a resolution of the administrative director? Have these cases been completed with conviction? Given the passions and the violations that have been brought out, which have been shared in the Chamber now, I would extend the question to myself: when will Geshev and Borisov finally be arrested? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u88	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. On behalf of a parliamentary group, please come in, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This room back in the years has seen a lot. She has also seen experienced speakers, experienced lawmakers, here the fates of Bulgaria have been forged. However, this same room also remembers some historical lows from this hall, from this tribune Georgi Dimitrov tells Nikola Petkov: "You are going to jail. [[Noise and lines.]] Today, the National Assembly hit another bottom, the Interior Minister of this tribune said he would deal with a party leader. I repeat: the Home Secretary said he could handle a party leader. [[Noise and lines: "With a face, a face!"]] The only historical analogue...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u90	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u91	...which I can find...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u92	Quiet, please! Take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u93	...is with what happened in 1947 and what Georgi Dimitrov said of this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u94	It's a statement from a group. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Here you are, Minister Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. A question was raised, which is part of Minister Stoilov's proposal submitted to the Supreme Judicial Council yesterday. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u96	Quiet, please! Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u97	This is about cases in which no Article applies. 9, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary, which regulates, regulates the so-called principle of accidental distribution of cases. This is under item III in Minister Stoilov's proposal to the Supreme Judicial Council. The norm is imperative and it was envisaged many years ago to avoid possibly... maybe 10 years ago is this norm, a corrupt element. It is very strange that now that he is Prosecutor General Gheshev that this norm is being circumvented. They're looking for all kinds of options. This is the case in the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office on the basis of non-public rules, i.e. they are not published anywhere but issued by the Prosecutor General, there the files and cases are assigned to specific prosecutors. I repeat, without applying this principle of accidental distribution of cases. You also rightly pointed out the people's representative who asked me that there were eight prosecutors there, I think, who were posted. They didn't go through the contest start check. This practice is also quite widespread in our prosecution, and those prosecutors who are posted are easily manipulated. They require actions such as Geshev, let's say, evaluate or another leader below it. It's a vicious practice. It testifies to a direct violation of one of the principles in the judiciary and the activities of the prosecution in particular. What does it mean to give someone a case or a file? What does that mean? Why are we not following this principle, which is long ago and is already practice in our country? What is the purpose of these files being assigned to posted prosecutors who do not know whether they will stay on the ground and work at the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office or not? I mean, if they like each other, they'll stay. If they don't like the leadership, they won't stay. If that's the point, you already know it. You should perhaps sharpen your attention to additional provisions in the Law on the Judiciary. It seems to me that even this is not necessary if we have a prosecutor general in front of us who wants to comply with the law. One more thing. There in the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, although there are by law specialized prosecutors and courts, to which there are quite negative moods and at the moment, including ideas for their closure, in the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office Ivan Geshev has also created separate specialized departments. On what legal basis is this done, I cannot give you an answer. I can't explain. But they actually exist anyway. There is some principle that they have invented.. cases of public interest. Which case is socially interesting decided by a head of this prosecution. I'm also very interesting, and that's why they've formed a case or two, by the way, yes, there is, or against some of my deputies at the Ministry of Interior. Right in this department. We have reflected this, of course, here in this signal and which material has been applied, that is, submitted yesterday to the Supreme Judicial Council. In other words, the prosecution lacks any legal criteria on the basis of which cases are allocated, although they are involved and should be dealing primarily with corruption crimes, but they, on the other hand, are in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office. The question arises: Why is this duplication? The only conclusion we can draw is that the Attorney General violated his duties, exceeded his authority and rights in this capacity. There is nothing else we can say about this. Was there anything else I didn't miss? [[Noise and lines: "For the arrests of Geshev and Boyko."]] The arrests? Look, regarding some of the previous government's positions, there are currently very active corrective actions, investigative actions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Whether they will lead to the detention of some, I cannot predict at this stage, but in an investigation this is always possible, you know that. [[Private applause.]] Moreover, of course, when it comes to not tens of leva, and when it comes to billions, it is very close to the mind that at some point it will proceed to the strictest measure of determination. That makes sense. [[Heckling]] It's too soon, of course. The National Investigation Service is investigating there. I very much hope that it will do its work objectively, comprehensively and fully, as the law requires. Eight billion and 600 million. BGN, which is claimed, for example, in particular there are other such that are distributed, so to speak, to companies close to the surroundings, in violation of all the rules under the Public Procurement Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u98	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. [[Applause.]] Mr. Atanasov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! A number of information about the use of special intelligence tools has long appeared in the public domain. This has been confirmed, including by state authorities, which means that there is a defect in this activity and a solution must be sought. It turned out that the violations were mainly on request and application of special intelligence funds by the prosecution, because it, as I said just now, was the same body that could make such requests and request the use of special intelligence means, but apparently there is no control subsequently. Come on, at the beginning there is some judicial review because a judge authorises the Specialized Court usually, but subsequently there is no control, especially after the collection of the data, which apparently is not subsequently destroyed. I remember as early as freshman year, when I was in the Law Faculty, reading about the spirit of Montesquieu's laws that the separation of authorities in his opinion, even then, meant relative autonomy and mutual control. So, how do you exercise control over the prosecution? And here my question to you: Mr. Rashkov, among other things, you are a longtime investigator, a lecturer, give advice on how to change legislation so that there can be effective control between the authorities and that there is no abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u100	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you are, Minister Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And this question is not particularly complicated for an answer because a Bureau of Special Intelligence Control was established a few years ago, which has quite a lot of potential. Maybe there's something else that needs to be given power. But a parliament member has decided to replace the members of this Bureau with those who will be comfortable. If convenient members of the Bureau are appointed, however perfect the legal framework is to be adopted, a result in the control not only of the prosecution for the use and application of special intelligence means, in general and in respect of all other entities involved in those procedures will not exist. The prosecution itself, which you are asking about, Mr. Atanasov, has become a certain period of time by a supervised entity of the Bureau for verification in an entity that controls the Bureau. And that's what I noticed even here a few months ago, when the D.A. made a statement that ordered the Bureau to carry out an inspection, which I was impressed with, I have to admit, very much. That is, instead of the Bureau checking the prosecution and ensuring the necessary conditions, it is the opposite. That is to say, this body must be filled with real content and the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office must finally begin to accept that it is also controlled, and it will have to bear the corresponding responsibility when the law is violated. Of course, we cannot ask this of her now, as long as she has this composition of the Supreme Judicial Council. That's impossible. And I say this because I reported at the invitation of the then Minister of Justice, it seems to me, was 2014 or 2015, in the Supreme Judicial Council for infringement of the procedures for the use and application of special intelligence resources, which I was personally very worried about, seeing as it was full of such violations in the individual bodies. And then there was no hearing in the Supreme Judicial Council. At the initial moment, they did not even want to listen to me and explain what outrage is being done in this secret activity in our country. I now see that in this staff, the Bureau also cannot detect the violations that are allowed in these procedures and, like the prosecutor's office, which examined itself in connection with the special intelligence means, and this Bureau very quickly said that there were no violations committed. So this is a very serious task and must be foreseen at least in my opinion such additional legal rules in the Special Intelligence Act that leave no doubt that the prosecution is supervised by this body. This body is accounted for and supervised, I mean the Bureau, only to Parliament and no one else. And the authorities to which such checks are legally carried out, I repeat, must cooperate. There are some details, and if you start such a process of amendment and supplement, I would love to join you if you invited me. There is much to be desired by the Special Intelligence Act, Mr. Atanasov, and it can be improved to a much greater extent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DB, IBGN and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u102	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? You have no question. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u103	Dear Minister Rashkov! In your exhibition earlier, you said something very interesting, namely that documents and materials that were drawn up in connection with the use of special intelligence means were either destroyed or sent to the Special Prosecutor's Office so that the Ministry of Interior could not eventually reach them. First, we from Stand up BG! We're coming!...as we've been proven to be bugged....the entire office of..Stand up БГ! We're coming!.... the civil platform, as well as its related politicians, citizens and journalists have been tapped. [[Replications between MPs Desislava Atanasova and Maya Manolova]] , we are very excited about this: do you think that the wiretaps that have been conducted over the past year have in any way been used politically? But more important is the other finding, namely that the Specialized Prosecutor's Office has become a black register for dirt and dirt. So whoever wants to hide something from the former rulers, I repeat, the former rulers, he sends it to the Special Prosecutor's Office so that this thing can never see the light of day, as it clearly cannot be destroyed. And here the question is: since nowhere in the Constitution or in the Law on the Judicial Government does it say that the Specialized Prosecutor's Office should be a black register of filth and to keep records, documents and other things incriminating the former governors in wiretaps that have led to nothing, wiretaps that have been made only for their party interest, does it actually carry out the Office's Specialized Prosecutor's Office's Office's functions which the Law on the Judicial Authority prescribes to her? What's your grade? Does the special prosecutor's office lead to real investigations against real criminal groups, or does it simply act as a party body? And therefore, should she...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u104	Thank you, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u105	In fact, the question is: should it be closed, as we do from Stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u106	Here you are, Minister Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You asked me a complex question about both the legality of the procedures in the Special Prosecutor's Office and the fate of this body of the judiciary. I'll try and tell you, of course, my opinion of what it is. Yes, indeed, in the verification that we have been doing for quite some time and very carefully, we come across such a practice. First, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and more precisely the Directorate General of Organized Crime, as well as the Directorate of Homeland Security, in this period of time, of the protests on the streets of Sofia, were used as a servicer of the Special Prosecutor's Office. They've carried around next week, if you invite me, I'll explain a list of names so there's no paperwork left. Secondly, we have established with cameras that are in one of the services that was initiated and conducted after my inauguration of mass destruction of documentation. What is this saying that someone was preparing to welcome us to a clean place?! Documents related to special intelligence means. And what I said on another occasion today, another part of the documents that the prosecution obviously needed were sent there. And since the cases are in the prosecution's office, we can't do any checking there. And that's how the circle closes. However, we can and there are documents left behind, I have said it many times, and I will repeat it today, because for me this is an extremely worrying issue, a pre-trial procedure has been initiated on the occasion of the protesters citizens for the political crime under art. 95 of the Penal Code: who participates and there to dig up, tear down the power in rebellion, in rebellion and so on. And there's a punishment there for life. If we were in other times, there would probably be a death penalty.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u108	Siberia!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u109	Mortal, death penalty. Yes, now I won't, thank God! I won't! That's the kind of case they've filed. In another decree they have mixed two legal qualifications to have in any case: one by art. 321, i.e. an organized crime group, and the other one under this text under art. 95. So anyone who was there in the square, who was involved in the protests, can feel at ease as a participant in a group that has set the goal of tearing down power to participate in rebellion, rebellion. And I wonder: part of my family were there several times, probably treated us that way too, unfortunately?! Why am I saying this with a smile and a worry? Because in our practice, in the practice of the investigative and prosecutorial authorities in our country, I do not remember anyone applying this text in the years, I do not remember. Even in criminal law theory this text, as well as some others after it, are understood as dead texts from the Penal Code. However, we, as experienced as we are, have not learned to the end, because, behold, we have lived to see pre-trial proceedings initiated by the prosecution according to this text of the Penal Code! It seems to me that further information could be gathered in this regard. I admit, the Ministry of Interior will not be able to carry out such checks. But our Special Prosecutor's Office, I repeat, has initiated such proceedings and carried out with the assistance of the Ministry of Interior at the time of the colleagues who were before me, actions to prove such a crime. And something to which Minister Stoilov, Minister of Justice, here again sees the bailout rate of art. 321 and so on, I quote you specifically, for an organized crime group. I will probably present you some digital data next week to see that this is not at all to be underestimated because it is a case that has been formed for four years or, what, over 10,000 times this text. Over 10,000 cases! When you listened to me here, I was still at the Bureau. Then I said something about the anti-corruption commission and something about the organized crime problem in our country. And I said that there, in this prosecutor's office, there are so many cases under art. 321, as if Bulgaria were composed almost as a people of such organized criminal groups. Is it now 10 000 or 13,000 cases, and when they reach the Supreme Court of Cassation, suddenly there is no evidence of an organized crime group, this qualification is dropped, and the case ends even with a judgmental verdict, but in some other text of the Penal Code. And someone will immediately ask, "Why did they do this?" Well, because in all cases, when the qualification is for an organized criminal group, first, they immediately take a stand-by measure. And these measures, as you well know, as many facts are published, do not last a month or two, and sometimes last two years. Here my colleague Hadjigenov will probably support me. I mean, the measures are being extended by adding other charges so that the defendant can stay as long as possible and almost endure some punishment that the court has not yet imposed on him. And the next reason to qualify is that in any case, in such a legal qualification, what special intelligence means are used. Are you asking me if they were used for political purposes? From what I have announced, there is no doubt that they were used for political purposes, because this crime is by definition a political crime, it is in the head, in the first part of the Penal Code, the particular part, crimes against the security of the Republic. They're all political crimes. Yeah, they're used. Here's your example. That's the scariest example I've ever had. A citizen who protests wants to change something in the country, wants the resignation of the cabinet, automatically makes him a criminal who committed a crime against the Republic, the security of the Republic. And I'll tell you one more thing, since we've spent a long time with the Attorney General today. Suddenly, after the invasion of the Presidency, the protest movement raised slogans, as I said, against the Attorney General and demanded his resignation. And he initiated criminal proceedings so as to protect himself because they wanted him to resign, and investigated proceedings against the citizens who wanted him to resign. I don't know what to call that. Now, indeed, the specifics of the prosecution in our country, I would say the courts, put this question about their own existence as part of the judiciary precisely with those actions they are carrying out. With these actions. My opinion is that Bulgaria does not need such specialized justice, that is my personal opinion. There's no need for that. Even when the project for the creation of these structures was launched, I have since been adamant that we do not need such courts. They have become, as recently very often said, really into a bat of power, indeed. And that's why they don't have room. The orientation of the Minister of Justice is correct, I accept it, I support it, that such specialization can also be obtained within ordinary prosecutions, if I may say so, and courts. That doesn't bother me. As in the National Investigation Service there are specialized departments of individual types of crime, which does not prevent them from being distributed, of course, and cases in other texts of the Penal Code. This is the only place that has been adopted, and I think that after how many years we should be rethinking these structures. Otherwise I wouldn't use it, it's a very strong expression about dirt in a black box and so on. Basically, I think I answered the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u110	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. We move on to the questions to Minister Stoilov. There is such a people? I won't. From GERB-SDS? I won't. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u111	Dear Minister Stoilov, we congratulate you that you have addressed the procedure for hearing the Attorney General outside the Annual Report, which, by the way, has been initiated one single time by the BSP parliamentary group. Then my colleagues and I asked all the important questions for four astronomical hours. The answers were disturbing and gave us reason then to ask for the resignation of the Prosecutor General a position which remains unchanged until today, but also outlined three groups of institutional problems of the state prosecution: the selective action of the accusation, which is obvious, for example, in Borisov's scandalous records, only it could not understand whose voice it was; passive attitude in these cases; interference with other authorities on the path of general supervision of legality. When the prosecution came even to situations in which I sincerely tried to make a process that GERB tried to lens in their Constitutional Project and to make it a constitutional order. Thank God they didn't make it. However, these common groups have not yet found an institutional solution. We congratulate you for putting this question at the height of your institution where it belongs and continuing this policy. In this regard, it is also my question on the basis of what you have seen as a minister, the whole process in the Supreme Judicial Council and the debate today in the National Assembly, what is your conclusion, and most importantly what is your message after yesterday and today Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u112	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u113	Madam President, Mr. Bojankov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Some of the examples you have given may cover the composition of the infringement of systematic non-compliance with the duties of the Attorney General. Of course, he has a defense thesis and says: I do not consider any specific files and cases, that is, none of them I answer for. However, since it implements the general management, methodological supervision, without interfering with the work of the individual prosecutors.. as the Constitution and the law command, it cannot be held responsible for the overall effectiveness of countering corruption on the high levels of power. Even in the Report of the European Commission on the Rule of Law for this year you have seen how the final final decisions of the Supreme Court of Cassation there are, how partly, and in fact there Bulgaria continues to be with extremely unsatisfactory results, in one condition, when corruption has penetrated into all sectors and at all levels of governance. About how I see things. In my opinion, the legitimate criticisms, claims and expectations there are, I believe, the majority of Bulgarian citizens to the activities of the judiciary and the prosecution should not lead to weakening the role of the prosecution. Bulgaria needs a strong, effective and accountable prosecution for me. So the legitimate claims you make to the current management of the prosecution, to the Supreme Judicial Council, should not result in weakening the state's ability to counter in this area. This is the danger and this is the difficult, sensitive balance that needs to be carried out in the follow-up. However, how to become a strong and effective prosecutor's office, this is already a discussion. In some countries it is achieved by strengthening judicial control with greater decentralisation, in others there are opportunities for more impact from the top to the base, so the different options and their consequences, however, are to be assessed in a comprehensive view of it. You're asking what else I can offer. With regard to the Bureau of Defense, there is a case before the Constitutional Court at the moment. My recommendation is to wait for the ruling of the Constitutional Court and in view of this decision to take any changes to the relevant law. Since this law envisioned the Bureau to be a body that deals primarily with witness protection, I have already said how it has spread its action until it has become basically a parallel security guard, I would say, more attractive even by the National Security Service, subordinate to a man who essentially controls it, controls it and has the opportunity to take all important decisions without using enough control capabilities on the part of other institutions. With regard to the distribution of cases, there really must be restored the practical application of the principle of the occasional distribution of cases in order to overcome an anecdote that has acquired wide citizenship: There is nothing by chance in the prosecution in the principle of the occasional distribution of cases. Here perhaps at the end, so, for cheering up, because moments of Bulgarian history were remembered, including parliamentary, with a bitter taste, but years earlier one of the brilliant speakers in the Bulgarian Parliament, Georgi Kirkov, turned to his opponents and said: "Lord, you are no longer caught by the law. You're the only one who gets caught by the revolution. And in order not to have such extreme events as last year's events, or at least to take place in one way that does not lead to deep divisions and conflicts in Bulgarian society, and if we want to use the rule of law, we need to make sure that laws and their contractors are such in order to develop the process in its democratic forms. These are the lessons from history, so let's follow them, let's be critical and self-critical, and basically let's be fulfilled by the awareness that people are counting on what is happening now, in some way, to continue, to be improved, and each one to come out and discuss the results he has achieved. Thank you. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u114	Thank you. From "Democratic Bulgaria." Welcome, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u115	Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! On several occasions in today's debate, as well as in the proposal of the Minister of Justice to the Supreme Judicial Council, we returned to the Report on Rule of Law, the rule of law of the European Commission, which came out recently. In this report, there is a disturbing conclusion for another year, which says the following: "Despite the increased activity of the investigation and increased resources, indictments, judicial proceedings in corruption crimes remain small, and the conviction sentences are even less. " This issue is inevitably related to the actions of the Prosecutor General and, of course, the prestige of the judiciary. In this regard, I have the following question: what does the statistics on corruption crimes in Bulgaria show, how many of them really affect the higher levels of power and therefore we, as MPs from the 46th National Assembly, what can we do to remove the obstacles and thus activate the solution of this really big problem of our society?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u116	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u117	Madam President, Mrs. Yordanova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We're usually used to saying that people aren't as important as rules. My experience, however, makes me think that as important as the rules are, so important are the people. And the best way to solve this issue is if more people, if they create a critical mass of people in institutions that are not corrupt and the higher they are, they can also require that those below them not be. This is a complex healing process which, however, really requires everyone to look at their lines, everyone to look at others, and everyone under this criterion to want to carry the same criterion of responsibility. As for the data in the report, I remember that one of Bulgaria's achievements was that there were eight convicted cataclysers for corruption crimes. Perhaps now it is pointed out that for the first time there was criminal proceedings against an acting minister, Deputy Minister. Yeah, that's right. We don't underestimate him. But when some people say, "Why are you asking these questions, and you want the Attorney General to be responsible for what he's done, but he's responsible not only for what he's done, but also for what he didn't do and his subordinates. So tearing up these connectivitys without creating trendiness, prejudice or selectivity should be the ones who really lead the action. And in this particular plan, I believe that the court should not be pressured, but must go beyond the understanding of the current Attorney General, which I think he publicly shared that the prosecution owes action, not result. It is true that the official result is only within the jurisdiction of the court and ultimately of the last court instance, but the role of the prosecution is not simply to form case files and cases, because it can form case files and cases of all those who are here. But does it mean that she has fulfilled her true role? And if for the outcome of the individual case, the prosecutor cannot be held solely responsible for the aggregate result of the prosecution's activities, we can judge to what extent and in how she does her job. And not to be told: we have requested, imposed measures of three billion, two billion, one billion seizures. At the moment, 12.2 million were taken from the Specialized Commission. lv. Let's see, it takes time, but one thing is to say big pretentious things, another is to see what the end result is. So even at the moment when it comes to how many billions have been lost or wasted by the current government, we should not be fooled that the only necessary and definite countering corruption can solve Bulgaria's problems. The other pillar is economic development and a socially committed policy. As far as corruption is concerned, Bulgaria will not be modernised, it will not reach the other developed countries only with these actions. Yes, the Ministry of Justice, the Interior, in certain sectors, other ministries are responsible for stopping these taps, these intermediaries, because the problem is not that there are procedures So here are the tools that must combine the emergency, the pressing counter-corruption, with a social economic policy to modernise the country, not some potpuri from programmes from 30 years ago that are really quite old and which cannot solve today's problems in a world of combining crises of a different nature. So my call to you on the issue is really, starting from the specific problems and their solutions, to get to what can really make Bulgaria prosperous and Bulgarian citizens feel worthy in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u118	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No questions asked. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u119	Dear Minister, you have a legal opportunity to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court this shameful decision of the Supreme Judicial Council with absurd arguments which have practically deprived you of exercising your constitutional right to request early release of the Attorney General, or even more absurd statement that it is a disciplinary procedure in which the time limits have long expired. What do you think about the severe incompetence of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council or the dependences of political and oligarchic dependencies? It is clear that, in both cases, the members of this Supreme Judicial Council must be released. Which way do you think this is? Should the political parties that broadcast their representatives to the Supreme Judicial Council, which ruled this shameful decision, thus enabling these parties to side with the citizens, the citizens' interest, the ordinary people who suffer from the judicial system, turned by this same Supreme Judicial Council into a grocery store, with crates of rotten apples, or is it the responsibility of the National Assembly to make legislative changes that lead to the election of a new Supreme Judicial Council, and could this be done by changing the model of its structuring and functioning? For example, let us return to the model from before 2007, when it comes to not permanent composition.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u120	Mrs. Manolova, a specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u121	This would enable the members of the Supreme Judicial Council to see every day the assessment of magistrates of the honourable magistrates for their work. And this would certainly change the operation of the Supreme Judicial Council as an umbrella over both the Supreme Judicial Council and other appointments to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u123	Madam President! Mrs. Manolova, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will examine the possibilities for appeal against the decision of the Supreme Judicial Council before the Supreme Administrative Court, but I doubt whether such a legal step should be taken. Perhaps to see what the Magistrates' attitude will be, to use another legal option, but I do not know if the deepening of the legal discussion is the best way. So I will decide whether it is appropriate, because I continue to be convinced that the procedural legitimization that I have as Minister of Justice for making this request to the Supreme Judicial Council is in place. What are the reasons? I would not like to become an valuer of the professional competence of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, at least because they have broadcast a part of the judiciary, another part of parliament, and thus I would put myself above those who choose them. Although in the discussion I noticed some gaps in this regard too. For example, some who do not see an exact difference between reason for interpretation and filling gaps in legislation. These are, in my opinion, important professional requirements for people who have claims, aren't they? I will not point to other cases.... how the ultimate unjustifiedness or unfoundedness of a request can lead to its diversion on grounds of inadmissible grounds, right? You judge as people who practice this profession and ask the courts to pronounce, how would you react to such things? In my opinion, the bigger problem is, and I therefore said that yesterday's request for a meeting was a test of independence and responsibility of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. They refused, refused to solve this test. This, for me, gives everyone the opportunity to draw certain conclusions from now on. And how do you proceed from there? The Minister of Justice shall only chair the meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council. He can make certain proposals, he can convene these meetings, so one of the priorities in the short period of my work was to activate the interaction between the executive and the judiciary precisely through this role in the Supreme Judicial Council. I have no authority to change the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council. What exists, nominally by law, is those representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council, depending on how they are broadcast, whether by the judicial authorities or by parliament, can therefore be asked questions about their responsibility. However, I do not want it to seem that ruling them on a specific issue will lead to the driving of such a disciplinary procedure. The question is, what type of judicial management body is needed? Did you know that as Minister of Justice for this short period, the largest number of proposals for decisions that I have had to submit to the government is to execute judgment decisions against Bulgaria by the European Court of Human Rights or controversial such decisions? That's a huge amount of money. I think it's about $1 million a year somewhere. BGN, and that is why we rightly discussed with colleagues that perhaps the payment of these benefits should be borne by any authority that has given a judgment, especially when it comes to repeated violations, that is to say there was a prominence, there was a predictability that the act delivered by some Bulgarian authority... in some cases it could be to the executive authority, in others... to the prosecution, in third................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So let everyone pay bills for what has happened, because the recent years have created the impression that the Supreme Judicial Council is some kind of self-sufficient, autonomous structure which can hardly exist independently of the other institutions in the country, that its state is necessary when discussing its budget and it must receive the rightful funds. I think that responsibilities should be allocated in proportion, and that is what is important. Yes, indeed the Supreme Judicial Council began its meetings from the Chamber of Justice and you see it has been built as a powerful parallel administration. Here I do not want to talk about the different projects, about their effectiveness, how we constantly make electronic systems, how we still do not have an e-government, we have upgrade, completion, complement, correction of all sorts of similar projects and now again the problems of e-invoicing. So these are the realities of the whole country. The Supreme Judicial Council is one of those fragments that we observe in other sectors as well. But it's a matter of parliament. I don't want to give recommendations, advice and even less final decisions here. I think that really very well we need to discuss the issues, and you confirm some of my words at the beginning. Now we're discussing whether to go back to something that was at the beginning, then we said that changing it would make it better, and maybe it got even worse. So, again, let all bitter lessons be read, let the experience be used, let there be no prejudice. Even if you like, the Supreme Judicial Council ends its term somewhere in about a year. I'm not saying whether you wait or make any changes in this period. But there is something to be done at this time to really broadcast such a composition of the Supreme Judicial Council, with or without changes at the highest level, but, again, you are on the move right now, you have a legislative initiative, especially with regard to the Law on the Judiciary, regarding other laws, and let the other discussion be much more comprehensive, thorough. Perhaps other initiatives will appear in time and be seriously discussed. So let's not put off, as it is well said in our saying: Today's work for tomorrow and because we have some other future plans and tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u124	Thank you. We are now moving towards expressing attitude towards the answers of the two ministers. There is such a people and you are entitled to 10 minutes in total to the two ministers. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The two ministers were heard, but most of us turned this hearing into a speech room and gave advice on what should be done. Our conclusions from the hearing are as follows. There are some parties who chose Geshev and built the system of functioning of the prosecution in such a way as to keep the model of functioning not only of the judiciary but of the entire state. These three parties must now decide with the other parties in this Parliament, this model of governance not only of the judiciary, but also of the state, should it continue to function, or should it not? We need to find some common ground on which cardinal judicial reform is to take place, not only in the prosecution, in the judiciary: for the functions of the Ministry of Justice, for special intelligence, but without a reform of the prosecution things will not work out. There we need to find common ground in relation to amendments to the Judicial Law, as the ministers who have been heard said, we need to find opportunities for constitutional changes, because none of the new parties in parliament have participated in the vote on the Judicial Law, in the last constitutional changes that have shown that they are meaningless and the prosecution cannot function in a new way. She's working on a model that was built before 1990. Without cardinal judicial reforms in relation to the control of the prosecution's acts, the prosecution's responsibility for unlawful acts, the removal of the dependence of ordinary prosecutors by the Prosecutor General in relation to their judicial acts, things will not be obtained. Here we have to show desire to all the parties in this Parliament for breaking down this model of governance. The other is all one story. Let's show some willpower, draw up a plan to move on, and we can break this vicious pattern. This will be in the interest of Bulgarian citizens. So as much as we hear: Geshev is such, Geshev is one, he will not leave. We need to come up with the model, the legislative changes that need to be cardinal in order to break this model. Again, the parties who voted both Tsatsarov and Geshev, they chose it. They must show willpower and say: this model cannot continue because it will reflect on you at some point. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u126	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. From GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was wondering, what is the point of this discussion? And I think that both for me and for our group, for all of you, and for the whole society it is clear that the meaning of this discussion and the initiated actions in the last days by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice were designed to create an ideological, conceptual and political platform for the replacement of the Supreme Judicial Council and then the Attorney General. That is to say, what the honourable colleague Zarkov said yesterday: "Get up and sit down. However, the discussion was useful because it highlighted the two positions, the two platforms, the two lines of conduct, of which the national representation must choose which one to follow. The also respected colleague Atanasov mentioned Montesko and the principle of separation of authorities and that power should control power. Unfortunately, in the last few days, recent weeks, including today, have highlighted one tendency for executive powers to issue sentences. Many sentences were issued, indictments were drawn up in the public domain, former people. We understand that the leader of the opposition party must be imprisoned. It seems to me that from now on we must very clearly understand what the prerogatives of the legislature are, what are the prerogatives of the executive and what are those of the judiciary. If someone in the executive body wants to issue sentences, to be so good as to go to the judiciary and issue them there, because, colleagues, the issuing of judgments by the executive authority has one other speciality, it destroys the authority of the law, it destroys the sense of justice and destroys the authority of the law. The executive can't afford such a thing. That's what I'm saying in the clamp. Minister Stoilov made some fundamental statements and I congratulate him on that. Under 90% of his words, I can sign. He drew attention to the fact that it is not the question of getting me to sit down and it is not the question of changing the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council in order to get to Geshev or Tsatsarov and to change them, but that if everything is reduced only to this point, you will have done nothing and will be with nothing different Bulgaria or its judicial system. Nothing's gonna get better. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov paid attention to the fact that our Constitution has been changed many times in the part of the Constitution and I will tell you how many six, exactly six times has been changed. The last time with the cooperation of our colleagues who are currently standing on the right and, as he said, it gets worse each time. Our people have a saying: "Seven times measure, once cut! " and I would call on the people's representation if you consider the seventh time to change the Constitution, this time we should be very careful, because it will be the last. We know that informal discussions are pending next week between the political parties in connection with judicial reform. A political party GERB will be pleased to participate and we hope that some of those who were heard from this platform will be able to implement them in the future legislation. In 1215, colleagues, the Great Charter of Freedoms was adopted, which is the founding constitutional document of modern democracy. In its article. 40 says: "No one will be sold, denied or delayed law and justice. "I will read it one more time: "No one will be sold, denied or delayed law and justice. " I think that in the next discussions that we will have in this Chamber, we should think very carefully about how we guarantee these principles, because these are, in fact, principles, albeit formulated in other words, and of the Bulgarian Constitution, there is a difference between law and justice. You know, I want to say something very personal and I hope it doesn't sound like populism, please don't really understand it that way. I don't know if we remember, because in the thunder of the revolutionary changes that are taking place in this house, we somehow don't pay attention to the small things, but on Monday a child was killed, killed by a policeman on a pedestrian path. For such a thing in the developed Western democracies, which we strive for, there are immediately two things happening - the Minister of Interior resigns, and the court case at first instance ends in two weeks. [[Laughter]] At the last request in two months. Check to see that you do. [[Heckling]] That's it, colleagues, the differentiation between justice and law. [[Heckling]] Society needs justice and justice is sometimes expressed in small things. When justice is done in the small, because it is not small at all, I think that we should put here a red line, which we can understand that just not a red line, I cannot find the right word at the moment, a principle on which to unite everyone, that no matter what we do in Bulgaria, there can be no murder of a child or if it happens, justice should be repaid immediately. [[Noise and lines from IHN. Replies from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u128	Please don't engage in dialogue! Mr. Bikov! Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u129	Mr. Yordanov, several times in my campaign, I have allowed myself to say that anyone who raises a very high moral bar should be able to jump it himself. Anyone who lifts the moral tape must be able to jump it. When I pick it up, I know I can jump it. The point is, when you lift the moral bar, you should be able to jump it too. Because with insults, accusations, unfair or fair, it will be understood later, with populism and with PR we will rule this country. It must be guided with justice and justice. And the majority that will be created must show and demonstrate whether it can render justice and justice. I conclude with a thought by Vladimir Solovyov "The Russian philosopher Vladimir Solovyov, who said: "The power of the weaker one consists in being able to impose on the self-forgotten strong power of law. Interpret it as you wish, but the political party GERB from now on will serve with the power of the law. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u130	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear ministers, thank you for your answers and for your time. This hearing places for the first time in this National Assembly, and certainly not for the last time a matter which has been discussed at many other national meetings and has not received the answer, which constantly inflames public opinion, but creates confusion in Bulgarian citizens for the simple reason that it is presented every time in a way that seems like some people are fighting for power. So I'm going to try to tell you what I found out and the group that I've been representing for the last two days and what we think should be done. The first, let's say that the Prosecutor's Office in Bulgaria and, in particular, the Prosecutor General, because of the function in which it is occupied and the way in which it is constituted, represents real power, and much more brutal, I would say, than that which each of you through elections has received, as it is not more and not less about the freedom of Bulgarian citizens. To remind ourselves exactly what we are talking about, widely known among you and among the citizens is the definition of the German sociologist, economist and lawyer Weber for the monopoly of power is the only legitimate power exercised by the state. But in order for it to be democratic, it must follow through certain rules, procedures, otherwise this force becomes violence, and this violence becomes the object of political play. This has happened to us over the years. What question did the Minister of Justice ask during the Interior Minister's report yesterday at the Supreme Judicial Council and today we are discussing it? In fact, behind the complex legal words, he asks the following: Can in Bulgaria, in practice, if a chief prosecutor with his actions and inactions has created public tensions, if he has not received public trust, can he be prematurely removed or not? What happens in Bulgaria if, from 10,000 km away from the US, we are referred to as a corrupt state with data, facts and circumstances that are widely known and for which over the years they have closed their eyes one row of prosecutors, policemen, at least two chief prosecutors?! Can't or can't? Yesterday, the Supreme Judicial Council, the body that should rule on these issues, said: no, we will not respond. This debate, not being resolved where it belongs in the constitutionally defined body of this body, comes to the political forum of the National Assembly, and we have no right to ignore it anymore! It's not the first time it's happened. Since he was elected Chief Prosecutor Ivan Geshev, in the last year and eight months with his statements, his actions, his inactions have concentrated this debate on his own personality even more. And now he refused to resign! What can be done from now on? The ministers have done their job. What are the conclusions we can make? In Bulgaria as always there is what is written in the law and what is happening in practice. The procedure of yesterday is generally nothing but an impeachment procedure which combines in itself a legal, political, moral commitment. It is no accident that Professor Stoilov raised the question of the standard by which it is decided, and this standard is also the feeling of personal feeling in the people themselves who are elected, in this case the members of the SJC. Instead of speaking and cutting off this issue, to protect Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev, if they think this is the right situation, they hid behind legally unacceptable wordings, discussed this procedure as if it were disciplinary proceedings. I cannot believe that they do not know the difference, at least because this procedure could not end with a sanction, and it can only end with a proposal to the political body elected directly by the people. This cannot be a disciplinary procedure and this whole procedure from yesterday, to call it a trick, shows a simple refusal from the one placed, again I say, a much more complex question to question the Minister of Justice's right to initiate such a procedure. I can't believe they don't know art. 130c of the Constitution of Bulgaria, which expressly gives this right for every magistrate, including the Prosecutor General. And why is that happening? Because the role of the SJC is in what is conceived and recorded in the law and what is happening in practice. By Constitution and by law, the Supreme Judicial Council is a political body! All these fucks from yesterday, but we, as politicians, whether to sit or as lawyers, don't make any sense. It is an authority which decides for the personnel growth of magistrates and operates with their budget. Since becoming a permanent functioning body in 2007. I am not sure whether this was a good thing either, but since it became such an authority, it has been quite removed and it represents the third power, as we represent the legislative, as there are those who represent the executive, represent the judiciary and is responsible for it. Specifically, however, in order to cover up and not to stand by their names and to say the political decisions they have made and to be responsible for this, this body is constantly hiding behind all kinds of procedures, legal statements and so on. It is not the first time that law has been used as a formal cover for a decision or not to take such a decision, which has been clear before, but this time, ladies and gentlemen, it is so obvious that it is becoming shameful. At least I wasn't comfortable watching and listening to yesterday's session of the Supreme Judicial Council. The conclusions that can be drawn from these two days: The Supreme Judicial Council or at least the majority of its members yesterday showed that they did not want to exercise the powers they were entrusted with, the powers they applied for, the concepts they wrote themselves, presented them here and where they were elected and with regard to other colleagues. What is next with regard to Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev? First of all, we have to say that he can't stay, and we said that a year and a half ago. But, secondly, we must warn: if someone thinks that when Ivan Geshev is taken down and someone comes who has another education or looks better, or has learned better to speak and this will radically change things by itself, it is not true because it is a system. As I have already tried to explain, it is not only as it is written in the laws, but as it is in practice. In practice, these people, and Ivan Geshev is one of them who came out of the foreground now, are used to working in one way. These are rules of the game that are laid down in their careers and development, which I cannot say is that only they are guilty. Guilty are many people who have sat in this room, and many people who have lived in the Council of Ministers. They are accustomed to receiving instructions, they are accustomed and consider it normal to perform them! They just didn't realize the rules of the game were changing and it's up to us to do the right thing. For too long Bulgaria has been in the European Union, too many Bulgarians have gone to live in legal countries, too many Bulgarians have refused to live in an illegal state and are leaving it so that it can continue what has been happening for the past 30 years. This is a historic period, an era that ends. The new one is incompatible with the qualities that were needed to rise to these posts in the old one. Those are the facts. That doesn't mean that the new one will get better by itself, but it can always get worse. We must therefore see the two aspects under which to proceed from here on, and they are legal and political. The political aspect is that no one should pull the heroic flag towards themselves and state that, you see, I first said it, I would last do it and point with my finger, for the simple reason that the questions are complicated enough and that no one can do them alone. It is necessary to gradually build confidence between the parliamentary groups, to put matters honestly and to resolve them, not as yesterday in the Supreme Judicial Council everyone to hide behind clever sentiments in order not to say what they really think, but by putting consent and disagreement and looking forward...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u132	Mr. Zarkov, your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u133	I'm done, Madam President, last sentence. The political aspect will lead to a qualitative resolution of the legal one, which is no longer a secret. What must be done is written in a number of bills that have been imported and rejected, in the opinions of the Venice Commission, in reports of the European Union, and we must at last take these decisions so that we do not have to be shown again outside as a corrupt state, and we wonder where it came from. The Bulgarians don't deserve the stain that Magnetsky puts on all of us! However, we are responsible for washing this stain and not doing it to them again. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u134	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u135	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, we should thank the two ministers for the time that has been set aside and for sharing with serious depth their observations, experience, reflections and mainly for this action that they took before the Supreme Judicial Council, because it really outlined, so to speak, the final epicrisis of irresponsibility has gone into complete institutional insanity. This institutional insanity, however, brings Bulgarian statehood, Bulgarian sovereignty into a state of increasing and growing paralysis. This is not an exercise in any complex qualifications, and this is a reality that we see on the international field in communicating with our partners. This reality has its price. Mr. Stoilov, in addition to sharing specifically his observations as a minister, made several very important markers, how to say, of a political nature, because he, both as a lecturer and as a parliamentarians, and as a politician, has this scale. Some of them I agree with, and others I'd go in a shade. Corruption is not just a matter of stopping certain stealing, and it is one of the main factors for the Bulgarian economy not to be able to produce well-being, the Bulgarian power cannot guarantee the dignity of the citizens, as a result of which we lose the most valuable resource for the implementation of a policy to solve the social problems of the country. The price of corruption is monstrous, and we must look at it not simply through the prism of what is being diverted as funds. We must look at it through the prism of those jobs that have not arisen, of those investments that have not been made, of those people, as I said in the morning, who have not invested, but have chosen not to invest their lives in our homeland millions! This price is monstrous. I hope indeed that what Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Cholakov have said, in some sense, that we have reached this point. As you said, Mr. Cholakov from here to apply the law, and so far perhaps not, but from here to really rely on it. [[Applause from DB.]] I'm sure you don't mean that, Mr. Cholakov, but we come to a point where we all have the opportunity to decide together. So it's very important for me that we all decide to change the way things have been, and let's not simplify things, let's not talk about get up and sit down! That doesn't help us. Let's really have a thorough conversation about what we can do from now on, so not for me or anyone else to sit down, but for people who can do the work, and the job is huge. The picture that has been outlined, colleagues, is very dark. This is a picture which shows many institutional and regulatory mechanisms when abuse of power, which the Bulgarian statehood is corrupted with, with which freedom is trampled. We heard it in all the detailed responses of the two ministers. We must end this condition in the name of all of us. Yes, I agree that from this tribune even in the form of a slight banter, the conversations about arresting one or another are not good taste. It is not, by the way, particularly good taste to compare Boyko Borisov with Nikola Petkov! You'll excuse me. [[Applause from DB.]] But we really are here, too, because the question is what we do from now on. I have listened carefully to what Mr. Zarkov said, and I absolutely agree with everything he said. The question is not to pull our cameras and the light of the cameras. Some have some efforts they have done so far, others have bitter experiences to step on, try to make the mix that will allow us to continue from here on out. That is why our proposal is for debate and for conversation with everyone, so we broadcast associate Professor Slavov, not some political person or leader. And yes, I agree with what Mr. Stoilov said, he can't just change Ivan Gheshev with someone else to solve the problem. You can't! You can't change twenty-several people into the Supreme Judicial Council as long as they're left to solve the problem, but you can't solve it either. Yes, Mr. Zarkov is absolutely right. This scandalizes the people in the prosecution, or at least their leadership. A special meeting was held, if you recall, last summer. We have to regroup and we have to tell each other a lot. This is going to be very complicated. The point is that when we have a long-standing negative selection, a long-standing demoralization, a long-standing process of deprofessionalization, which is evident today, by the way. From these people, from this professional community, from these magistrates, who enjoy the highest degree of constitutionally guaranteed independence, no sound was heard in response to this monstrous moral crisis in which this establishment is situated! That the whole society, the international community, is pointing fingers at them and saying: people, what are you doing, why are you silent, why are you shutting your eyes?! Not a sound, guys!? That's amazing. Because, yes, the prosecution is a leader of power, and that power is a two-man power to run the machinery of state repression. But there's more power not to. And with this power is traded, and this power is the subject of that text by Magna Charter, which you quoted, not to wheel. Does it turn out that we are protecting Ivan Geshev in order to guarantee some impunity?! This is also a very important issue, and I ask you to take this matter seriously. No, we cannot aim our efforts here in Parliament to be the arrest of one or another. We really need to say this thing. But, yes, the goal must be to have no people who are unpunished. Yes, a goal must be when we have been looking at political persons for years who remain unpunished. Given that there are screaming questions in public space, the goal must be to end this thing. No situation can be tolerated in which any person is in a state of complete impunity. It has to be the goal of ending this thing. It must be a goal to reform and modernise the prosecution so that from top to bottom it becomes a modern public European institution. Finally, colleagues, we are quoting reports, we are quoting such interventions, such as the act "Magnitski" but this is an expression of the sad state in which Bulgarian statehood is located. I don't want to deal with what the Venice Commission has told us or the Council of Europe or the State Department or the U.S. Treasury Department. Let's have this conversation, let's do our job here, let's establish ourselves the right to have full sovereignty and political freedom of decision. Now we have a chance to do it, and then it won't matter what it says. But keep in mind that we are still a country that is integrated into certain alliances that is integrated into an economic area. Again I tell you, when 24 times in a report, which will be read by all international investors who are thinking whether to enter Bulgaria or not, and on this depends the jobs, and on this depends the remaining of our children here. Twenty-four times the name "Bulgaria" stands next to the name "Corruption"! Guys, this is a pogrom. It's a pogrom! We have to do something about it. At the moment, we, from "Democratic" Bulgaria, are in a particularly comfortable state, we may be part of some majority, and we may not be, and that is why I would like to start the conversation in this halfway house right now. Let's start talking to everyone about possible actions in judicial reform, gather our experiences, our bitter lessons and try to move forward the country and we'll all get easier. Even those who will have to face justice, but will be sure it is justice, not a political tribunal. It'll be easier for them, too. So in the name of ease, let's do our job. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? There aren't any. From the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! We're coming! Do you want the floor? Mrs. Doncheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u137	Dear colleagues! Today we had the first hearing of ministers. In an institution that has been called for years by the ruling party and was believed to be a waste of time. I hope that from now on we will delete from the dictionary the speaker when we talk about Parliament, because this is the purpose of this institution, and it is discussed. The second thing I am pleased to say is that we have had the opportunity to have this discussion with ministers who know much more than the topic of today's discussion and for which appearing in parliament is not some form of humiliation. I think that the beginning of the restoration of parliamentaryism begins with the ministers coming here without believing that their contact with the plenary is humiliation. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBGN]] The third, which I am pleased that the ministers have been very prepared because we are about to adopt a government. I'm not known as someone who brushes authority. That's why I think my words will sound different. I am tired of ministers who come here with their PR boards and believe that this is what parliamentary control is and their contact with the MPs. We solve a complicated issue, it affects all of us. It's very light to slide over the surface: we spit on your Attorney General and your previous appointments. Of course, some might accept it that way, but trust me, the Ferris wheel is spinning. I'm sorry my colleague Bikov isn't here. Lutfi Mestan was his analogue before that, but he had to find out for a transport accident what justice and justice mattered, that you didn't need to be an usher, a contractor who created documents to get into the meat grinder. That is why I believe that colleagues who are now coming out of power have just as much, even more interest in having justice than serious people who will judge by facts and by law and not by order of the government today. We've been in power and we've been out, we've been in parliament and we've been out, believe me, it matters to all of us. So today's discussion, I think, is a good start to restore parliamentaryism to its true form. I thank my colleague Cholakov for finishing with the phrase: "GERB will from now on serve with the power of the law" because from this sentence it automatically follows that so far, GERB has not served with the power of the law. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] Not to condemn ourselves, but to draw conclusions about what follows from today's discussion, I say it not to reproach ourselves for past things that do not make sense. The comparison of us, today's people, with the icons of Bulgarian politics, is a manifestation of immodestness and inadequacy. History tells me who is where, but that all active politicians are responsible for their past, it seems clear to me. When this past catches up with us in a way that we cannot avoid, that is another matter. But the past of active politicians and their money, assets, bars, drawers and everything else is something to come. If justice is objective and subject to the law, I think that all people will draw conclusions for themselves, whether it is just or not. Ivan Geshev cannot be the Attorney General. Ivan Geshev cannot be chief prosecutor even because of the coup cases. Since 1945, there have been no coup cases in Bulgaria. Let's not be after 1945, since 1955 it's the last century. The emergence of coup cases in democratic Bulgaria is a way of thinking which begins with the fact that there is no separation of authorities because he does not understand it. Can you imagine if the president's staff had done their duty by law, but they had to open fire because that's what the law says?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u138	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u139	That's not true, my ass! [[Laughter, applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] So the fact that someone in the country has shown a sense of tact still speaks well of him, but we as legislators should not allow the establishment of institutions that will be in this situation. Apropo, when we discuss, should the municipal police be made of each municipality [[a line from the National Representative Manoil Manev: "Yes! "]] , considering that as you divide Nessebar one can take a shot at Obzor and another at the opposite village! So when we make these decisions, we have to think about them in a complex way. In our case, the Witness Protection Bureau, which has not defended a single witness, but is a paramilitary structure of a chief prosecutor, is absolutely absurd, and this must be decided legally and we do not need much further instructions. And the fact that it was created because Tsatsarov and Geshev wanted it to be our earring. Whoever's next in this place wants us to look at it from all sides. The theme with the cases of embezzlement of foreign property of accused persons is a reference to the Eight Dwarves and other similar cases are not affected at all, but are to be addressed. There are cases that have been set up and were intended to win some elections and such cases have. They are not considered either, but I think that no one, wherever they stand in the Chamber, has any interest in having prosecutors and prosecutors, chief prosecutors and other prosecutors who act in this way. Is Uronen prestigious? After the slogans: Outside the Mafia of the Prosecutor's Office! Resignation and prison!Sir, they've been circulating for a year now, what are we talking about? Of course, an official can be pressured, but this is a lasting public attitude and we must resolve it. In this order of thought, the discussion of Geshev's diploma should be examined objectively and collected, and it will be collected through parliamentary control, including: who issued it; who gave it, if given; who allowed it; who confirmed it; who issued a certificate and so on. The regime of control over the SRS. It seems to me that we are legislatively well, unlike implementation. The composition of the Control Bureau must be restored in form to perform the functions and competences as effectively as possible after the time of Vladimira Yaneva. And I think that no one after Tsatsarov should put the matter to the parliament to close. The current staff of the Bureau, full of militiamen who have only one requirement for loyalty to power, must be looked at and changed, all the more so that the Vice-President is on the list. We can't explain why he resigned as vice president, but not as a member. He's probably planning on continuing to be a member. Next week, we are to form parliamentary committees. There is one for control of the special services, which used to operate in another way, but then, after Mr. Dubov was a little affected, invented it in this kind of five-six parliamentary bònzi to engage in special relations with the special services. I think we should think about this: should we stay that way or not? The serious questions Mr. Stoilov put for a new Supreme Judicial Council when, what, and whether permanently active, is an open and serious issue. I think we should all join even at the level of preliminary discussion. What we need to do to the Constitutional Court, I think it would be an honor for parliament to have signatures of people from all parliamentary groups to interpret art. 130c, t. 3, because it is clearly written and I do not know why the SJC is so difficult to interpret in the literal way? With regard to specialized courts and prosecutors, I think we can wait for the Minister of Justice until next week to see his ideas as well, although the draft of colleague Slavov is very good and needs to be supported. The theme with the Prosecutor General's report on the financial costs of the prosecutor's office, I also think it would be good to submit it with signatures of MPs from all political forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u140	Mrs. Doncheva, time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u141	I'm done. In this way, we can conclude the first questioning of ministers by also pointing out guidelines for our work and understanding that there is no point in defending the points of view so that our minister's choice should be protected, unlike your choice, which should be spat. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-23.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. That concludes today's hearing. I thank Minister Stoilov and Minister Rashkov. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]] The agenda is also exhausted. Next plenary session on 28 July 2021, Wednesday, at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
