ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Programme for the work of the National Assembly from 11 to 13 August 2021: "1." Draft Decision on the adoption of the Rules for Remote Participation in the Meetings of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19. Importer "Nadezhda Yordanova." 2. Draft decision on the access of the Members of the National Assembly to materials received in the National Assembly. Importers: Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. 3. Hearing of the Minister of Tourism Stella Baltova on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the implementation of the measures and strategy of the Ministry for support and restoration of the tourism sector following the pandemic of COVID-19. Importers: Nikolina Angelkova and a group of MPs. 4. Draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities in the territory of the protected territory................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Importers - Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. 5. Hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the concession at Sofia Airport. Importer Ivaylo Mirchev. 6. Hearing of Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning: 6.1. Construction of a National Children's Hospital. Importers: Galina Tavaleka and Maria Kapon; 6.2. The National Children's Hospital. Importer "Tania Andreeva" point first for Thursday. 7. Hearing of the Governor of NHIF Petko Salchev on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the opportunities for funding of the requested by the Hospital "Heart and Brain" EAD at the new address in the village of Kazicene new medical activities for the period from 2024. 8. Hearing of Aleksandar Dunchev Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency on the grounds of art. 110 of the National Assembly's Rules on the Management of Hunting Farms, Hunting Bases and Hunting Areas Management Contracts. Importers. "Borislav Sandov and a group of MPs. 9. Hearing of the Minister of Interior on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Growth of Domestic Crime, in particular car theft and telephone fraud. Importers Desislava Atanasova, Hristo Gazhev and Zhecho Stankov. 10. Hearing of Andrey Zhivkov, Minister of Service of Energy, on the basis of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly concerning: the current economic situation of the operator of the national network.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Importers s Ivan Hinovski and a group of MPs... first item for Friday. 11. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. All proposals submitted under the Staff Regulations under para. 3 The National Assembly's work programme is included in the National Assembly's work programme. I'm putting the Programme Project to a vote. Debates, you know, there are no debates, no oral proposals are not allowed. Mr. Nenkov, come on in on the program. [[Heckling]] Let me just see if she wants to move points or something, and I'll put her to the vote right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I don't know if we're aware of this, but we're on our way from a political crisis to becoming a very serious constitutional one. Do you really think that the Rules for Remote Participation in the Meetings of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly of Members placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine because of COVID-19 is the essential item on the agenda?! Madam President, I would like to ask: where is the point on which the draft composition of the Council of Ministers is to be voted? There's a decree issued by the president.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Nenkov, I'm taking your word for more procedure since we're already in...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u4	I don't know why you're taking my word for it. I have the right to speak on the agenda. You have a responsibility, Madam President, you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u5	Mr. Nenkov, we are in voting mode under the procedure, but I will explain to you why I have not included it in the Program for this week. I will not propose the structure and composition of the Council of Ministers in the National Assembly. Because of the above, you should not debate and vote my candidacy. [[Heckling]] Mr. Nenkov, please, no yelling. Therefore, I did not include it in the National Assembly's Work Programme. Under art. 47, para. 3 There is no such proposal made by both MPs and parliamentary groups, and oral proposals are inadmissible. I am voting on the program as I have presented it to you. They voted 198 MPs: 117, against 32, abstention 49. The motion is accepted. We move on to item one of the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT THE RESTRUCTURING RULES FOR DISTANCE PARTICIPATION IN FOUR-RIDES AND SIX PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES PUT ON A REQUIRTIONAL IMPLEMENT OR A CARANTINED COVID-19 Please submit the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u6	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! I present to your attention the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules for remote participation in the meetings of the Forty-sixth National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 63 of the Health Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules for remote participation by electronic means in the meetings of the Forty-sixth National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to the COVID-19 as follows: 1. Members of parliament placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to the COVID-19, as well as those close to contact within the meaning of an act of an authority under art. 61 of the Health Act of a confirmed case of COVID-19, have the right to participate electronically in the plenary sessions of the Forty-sixth National Assembly. 2. Remote participation by electronic means is carried out through an internet platform for video conference, which provides direct and virtual participation in meetings. 3. The Members of the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Bulgaria 1 shall be registered for participation in the plenary session by visualising a special screen in the plenary. The President shall announce them, which shall be deemed to be present at the meeting and shall be added to the stenography protocol. 4. In case of a request for a vote, speech, reply, duplicate, explanation of a negative vote, personal explanation or on procedural matters, the Member of the National Assembly shall state its wish by request on the platform. The chairman shall give and take away the floor of the Member of the National Assembly through the platform. 5. The provisions of the National Assembly Decision of 6 November 2020 on the adoption of Rules for participation in the plenary meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, placed under compulsory isolation or quarantine because of the COVID-19 by an act of an authority under art. 61, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Health Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the proposed draft decision. They voted 211 MPs: 200, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. There is an application for remote participation in the meeting by Kaloyan Yankov from "Democratic Bulgaria." Please contact the Member of the National Assembly to register.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u9	I declare Kaloyan Yankov present at today's plenary session. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCESS PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES TO PROVIDE DELEGATED IN THE DELEGATION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, to present the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in relation to the requirements of art. 39, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information is a necessary decision of the National Assembly on the organisation of the access of Members of the National Assembly to classified information. In this regard: Project! DECISION for the access of the Members of the National Assembly to materials received in the proceedings. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Art. 39, para. 3, p. 2 of the Classified Information Protection Act HAS DECIDED 1. It provides access to the materials received in the proceedings of the National Assembly or to the Temporary Commission for the Investigation of Facts and Circumstances in the Use of Tear Gas, the Use of Force and Assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens, as well as to investigate facts and circumstances related to the application of special intelligence tools of protesters citizens, opposition leaders and members of opposition political parties related to the application of special intelligence funds of protesters citizens and opposition leaders and members of political parties. Colleagues, the National Assembly has already received materials from the Ministry of Interior to the Temporary Commission for Investigation of Facts and Circumstances in the Use of Tear Gas, Use of Force and Assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020. In view of the importance of the topic, we propose that the National Assembly take a decision on the established order in order to provide access to this information to all MPs who want to get acquainted with the materials received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor to speak. I got to know the solution carefully last night, I know what the case is, but I scratched it a little bit. Should I go downstairs and read it to you, or should I read it to you from here, if you like? [[Replyes: "Yes, below. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u12	Unfortunately, I didn't have time to write it. I'm familiar with the case. Since last week, MPs have come to me in connection with allowing classified information in the Temporary Commission. There really is one art. 39 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, according to which access can be provided either by a decision of the National Assembly, subject to the principle of knowing.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Unfortunately, the text is not very clear in the Classified Information Protection Act. We have raised a lot of questions with our colleagues, and it has therefore been considered that the best way not to stop the MPs from accessing these documents, which are obviously extremely important to everyone and concern all MPs, is to submit such a draft decision. Now I'm going to read it to you the way I think it should be: Project! DECISION on ensuring the right of access of the Members of the National Assembly to The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 39, para. 3, p. 2 in relation to Art. 39, para. 1, t. 6 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information HAS DECIDED 1. Grants the Members of the National Assembly access to the documents.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u13	Are there any objections to editorial amendments? I won't. In such a case, I shall put to the vote the draft decision of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the access of the Members of the National Assembly to the materials received in the National Assembly. [[Heckling]] You have no objection to the editorial amendments? Okay. Please vote on editorial amendments made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u15	They voted 199 MPs: for 195, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please vote on the draft decision with the amendments adopted just now. Colleague Yankov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u16	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u17	Vote 206 MPs: for 204, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u18	Thank you, Madam President. There are really important hearings ahead on today's plenary day. Tourism is facing a crisis, there are difficult times ahead for Bulgaria. Therefore, I propose that today's plenary day be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Let the Bulgarian citizens be aware of what they will say here before us the MPs and ministers in the relevant sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I'm just reminding you that according to art. 45, para. 3 of our current Rules of Procedure are transmitted directly on BNT 2. You want BNT 1 done? [[Replyes: "Yes."]] To derogate the text of the Rules? Okay. I'm voting on this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u20	Yeah. Vote 206 MPs: 184, against 7, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Please activate BNT 1 and BNR cameras. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE TURISM SELLS BALTOVA ON THE BASIC TURISM. 110 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE MEASURES AND THE STRATEGIES OF THE MINISTRY OF HELP AND RECOGNITION OF THE TURISTIC I request a statement on the issues of the hearing importer. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u21	Mrs. President, Mrs. Baltova! Tourism is a key sector for the Bulgarian economy, which before the pandemic of COVID-19 formed between 12 and 14% of the country's gross domestic product. The tourism activities provided employment to more than 11% of the employees in Bulgaria. For 2019 Before the pandemic, over 9 million 300,000 foreign tourists had visited our country and realized over 27 million nights. This is one of the most damaged sectors of the continuing pandemic situation and the consequences of the world's horse crisis and its recovery is essential for the country's economy. According to the forecasts of the World Tourism Organisation and the World Travel and Tourism Council, its smooth recovery is expected for the period 2023 - 2024. However, leadership in the sector and making timely, predictable and clear decisions to be discussed in advance with the industry every day, if necessary. Because leadership is synonymous with action, not a post held in the state administration. In order to restore the sector and in order to be able to reach the 2019 levels again, it is important to implement a number of measures to assist it with measures relating to a clear vaccination and protection plan for people's health and life, with the employment of tourism workers, with support for all tourist enterprises and self-employed in the sector, travel agencies and tourgents, accommodation and dining facilities, excursions, mountain guides and so on. Provide predictability for charter flights, especially when we are talking about winter and summer season. Measures related to management of sea beaches. For the recovery of tourism, it is of great importance to have clear and targeted advertising, especially when we are talking about the key markets for Bulgaria. In fact, until today, a year and four months later, the anti-crisis policies and measures adopted by the government of Boyko Borisov are still being implemented in tourism; both the measure 60/40, 80/20; and the State aid of 35 euros per passenger seat; and the State aid for the support of the tour operators and tourgents for the reimbursement of the benefits of all those who have not realized their holiday; and also with regard to the grant schemes for the support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Pandemia continues.. unfortunately, the cases of COVID 19 are rising every day, and all specialists say we are on the threshold of a fourth wave. It is important that people know what you do to protect their health and life. At the same time, what are the measures you are taking to help the sector in this crisis? How will the main goal of tourism be achieved in the new reality, namely: Bulgaria in four seasons, development of all types of tourism - good quality product? You know that at the moment one of the main problems in the sector is related to staff. What do you do to address this problem for tourism personnel? It is extremely important to have a predictable and continuous dialogue and coordination with all your colleagues, especially with the health and economic minister, and not only. Coordination with all your fellow ministers of other countries, especially the important markets for Bulgaria in the sector of Tourism. Coordination with all government and non-governmental organizations, international tour operators. The measures are important to be timely and to reach tourist enterprises and those employed in them when they are needed, namely now. It is necessary, Mrs. Baltova, to have a clear short-term, medium-term, long-term strategy with a clear action plan, secured by the necessary financial resources, in order to be able to ensure that this key for the country's economy is restored. I suppose you are aware of how important your messages are, especially at the moment, which you are making both in terms of domestic tourism and international tourism markets and tour operators working on the market in Bulgaria. Populism is dangerous in times of crisis, words should express intentions that happen. We need concrete actions and measures to help the sector in this crisis so that it can continue to work, albeit in such difficult conditions. The tourism industry needs predictability and consistency, sensitivity and understanding especially in this situation in order to be able to plan long-term rather than morning to evening. What we're looking at...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u22	The weather, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u23	...is chaos and it's important to take measures so that the sector can recover. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Here you are, Madam Minister, to inform the National Assembly on the issues at the hearing. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u25	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The questions raised on the subject are extremely important. They require strategic thinking, approach and action, and we in the office pay serious attention and work with all our responsibility. Thank you for the opportunity and for the honour to present to you the support and reconstruction measures for the sector "Tourism" implemented in the period of the office. I fully share what you have said, Mrs. Angelkova. COVID-19 crisis has changed lifestyle, thinking, behavior of millions of people and businesses around the world. Totally overturned the attempt to bring down tourism, impacted and completely changed the economy of travel. Although of a medium and short-term nature, in line with the time span of the office's mandate, the objectives we have set ourselves have a dominant strategic impact aimed at restoring the viability of the sector. In this respect, the measures are of an economic and social nature, as well as measures aimed at encouraging travel to destination Bulgaria. Firstly, during the term of office, the Ministry of Tourism approaches in two directions with regard to economic measures: 1. The Ministry continued and accelerated the process of administering State aid schemes in the form of direct grants in support of the tourism business. 2. He created a new scheme to support the tourism sector, but on the principle of support by providing work for the entire spectrum of tourism activities. In the first direction during the term of office, I will refer to those programmes that were administered by the Ministry of Tourism: the first one that you mentioned, namely a state subsidy of 35 euros per seat in an airplane. This state subsidy was granted, it is for tour operators who use air carriers with a valid operating licence to execute flights to the Republic of Bulgaria for tourism purposes under art. 26 of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency. The Office's mandate prepared the Notification of the third phase of State aid, which is already a fact and which has an increased ceiling of aid for each company up to 1.8 million. EUR, according to the Fifth Amendment of the European Commission's Temporary Framework for State aid. In addition, the third phase also provides for ease of application conditions. It will be carried out entirely electronically through applications in the SUNI system. The estimated budget is 22 million. lv. In the context of the aid, an additional possibility of providing support under this scheme and to undertakings already in difficulty on 31 December 2019 is given, provided that they are not subject to collective insolvency proceedings under national law and have not received rescue or restructuring aid. This is valid, apropo, only for micro and small enterprises within the meaning of Annex 1 to the General Block Exemption Regulation. The scheme is open on 23 July to 30 November 2021 and flights carried out in the following period will be subject to a subsequent notification as the measure under the Law is intended to be applied two years after the emergency situation has been lifted, i.e. in 2022. The previous two phases of this framework are filled with the following parameters: Phase 1 is completed with a total value of the funds used Seventy-five thousand. BGN 411 and for the second phase, which is currently in the assessment stage, a single application worth 30 thousand has been submitted. BGN 310. Second, the Ministry of Tourism also implemented two State aid schemes to grant to tour operators and tour operators, namely: First, a state grant scheme for persons engaged in tour operator activities to compensate for losses resulting from the outbreak of COVID 19. This was the first phase that was completed, and businesses received a serious resource worth 34 million. 508 thousand. £288. The second scheme was prepared in our period and has a total budget of 16 million. 491,000. 711,63 leva. The application was completed on 20 July, and the procedure under this second phase is currently at the stage of evaluation of the applications received. This aid enables tour operators to recover the amounts due to their customers under unrealised tourist packages during the period 1 March 2020. - December 31st last year. - December 31st. One of the first actions after the inauguration of the office was to confirm the decision to select public service performers, which was aimed at helping the tour guides. It was insanely very slow for the tour guides, who were exceptional professionals and who had not been helped so far. In fact, licensed tour guides and mountain guides will be engaged with the order as external experts under the Project "Increasing the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector "Tourism" through support for the creation and operation of tourism management organisations. The total value of the contract is 3 million with VAT. The four contracts have already been signed and it will be paid off very soon. It is expected that the estimated amount, which will help the participating tour guides, per person will be BGN 2660. At the same time, other mechanisms are being sought to support this sub-sector. They continued, of course, in the period to act other grant measures implemented by other institutions, which, if there is any interest, I will further inform, such as: the measure 60/40, which you mentioned, we have proposed a new design of this measure, which is in line with the sector's specifics; the measure "Support through working capital for small and medium-sized enterprises"; the measure "Support through working capital for small and medium-sized enterprises" and others. With regard to the second direction of our measures, we created the National Program again together. This program helps all parts of the tourist business. It's worth 15 million. BGN, financed by funds from the central budget, which are envisaged, as I said, to support the tourism sector. Through this program, a total of 30,000 students and teachers will be able to visit tourist sites free of charge and this program has been developed, established and functioning in excellent cooperation between the institutions, between the various ministries in the office. This programme achieves several goals: support for the tourism business and also facilitates the socialization of students after the long isolation. Currently over 20,000 students and their teachers are registered in the Programme. Another category of business revival measures are related to ensuring the smooth functioning of the tourist season from the point of view of security, predictability and preservation of the health of both tourists and staff, of course, as far as possible in the conditions of an epidemic situation and, above all, with public health responsibility, namely: it was established jointly with the Ministry of Health Health Health Protocol for the implementation of anti-epidemic measures in the course of the summer season 2020. This plan is located both on the website of the Ministry of Tourism, on the tourist portal Bulgariatravel.org, and is forwarded to all diplomatic missions around the world. We created a newsletter with updating information, as we found that the information provision was very low, at a very low level when we entered our mandate. We have also developed in this health protocol actions to be taken by accommodations, means of transport in beach management and tourist attractions. At the same time, a special sticker for tourist sites was developed with the Ministry of Health to ensure that the guests know that these are sites with completed immunization of the staff. The first one was placed at the hotel "Maritim Paradise Blue" in the resort complex "Albena." In parallel to this, instructions were developed in the office's mandate for the functioning of accommodations and dining facilities................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are "Villi Magnolia" in the resort complex "Albena" and the municipality of Balchik and the hotel "Dell Mar" in Nessebar. We are currently in the process of negotiating such places, including here in Sofia, given the forecasts for the development of the epidemic situation. The second major area of measures related to support and restoration of the viability of the sector are measures related to the positioning and preservation of Bulgaria as a green zone as long as possible. If you open the map of Europan Europe today, Bulgaria is back in the green zone. Information provision, as I said, was an extremely weak place, and the first thing we faced was precisely this deficit. Information is also needed a major resource in carrying out the activities of all stakeholders in tourism. In order to improve its quality and the relevance of the information provided, as I said, we are preparing a newsletter that is being sent up-to-date to our diplomatic missions every week, as we are working very actively with the Minister of Economy and with all the heads of the trade and economic services. And one more thing, Members of Parliament, in the framework of the Office, I am finishing up an important initiative on the direction of increasing visibility and transparency, as well as emphasis on the priorities of the tourism sector for the government, was carried out in the first days of the mandate. [[the President signals that time has run out]] On May 17th, an active hyperlink was created on the official page of the Council of Ministers, on the top left, with the logo of Bulgaria, which leads directly to the website of the National Tourism Portal. A Google Analytics report showed that during its short time of operation this communication channel managed to rank fifth in number of generated visits through it on the website of the National Tourist Portal. All these actions were supported by extremely active marketing actions, we introduced the Travel bubble approach and achieved good results. We have opened up the most important market for this season - Romania, Poland and Ukraine - significant growths, and the first results for restoring the viability of the sector, honourable Members, are present.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u26	The weather, Minister Baltova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u27	More than 2.5 million tourists have travelled to the country since the beginning of the summer season until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u28	Thank you. We're now going to a declaration from a group of people here, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u29	Madam President and honourable Members of the National Assembly! We understand the need for further consultations with professionals to decide what to do in the situation we are in. It's about the vote of the Prime Minister and the cabinet. We also understand the decision of the Conference of Presidents that happened later in the day, but we do not understand the silence in this House against the background of what is happening in the country. If we bury our heads in the sand and think that life doesn't run differently outside of us, we make a big mistake. Dear Bulgarian citizens, we are all facing serious challenges together in the coming months. There have already been over 800 cases a day. The health system is overheating right now. Yesterday medics from Emergency Aid went out to protest across the country and came to the humiliating both for them and for the office situation to throw with those 0.11 BGN, which are given an hour's work with a horse, both the Ministry and the buildings of other institutions in the country. Doctors in Burgas complained that they had not received their additional remuneration for working in a form of environment for the third month. Just a few months ago, every night we would go out on the balconies and applaud these people and thank them for saving our lives, and in months' time, we might, God forbid, have to lean on them again. And here we keep quiet how do we solve these issues? RZI Sofia has already announced its intention to impose restrictive measures in Sofia, which they believe is already in the red zone and immediately followed a reaction for cooked protests and roadblocks, notice the three major cities of Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna. If we are blocked tomorrow in Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna, what do we answer to these people? We sit, we keep quiet, and we account for who's gonna vote and who's gonna vote for who. The current has reached record levels of over 400 BGN. for a megawatt hour. This is 70% above the European Union average in the poorest country 70% more expensive than the European average. They started shutting down factories in metallurgy. There will be machinery, and others will follow, and eventually every single item and service will not be missed. Workers will be made redundant, exports will be reduced. This will affect the trade balance and the budget. People can't handle this price shock in the fall and winter. Every household will suffer in the coming autumn and winter months. And on top of all this, employers and trade unions are announcing readiness for national protests. Can you imagine in this situation a country blocked by a national strike? The refugee camps are overcrowded. Every day, dozens of illegal migrants cross the border freely. And hundreds are already in Sofia. Given the developments in Afghanistan, we can expect that this will continue and will increase and all this money in the budget will not. The most important issue, the one about income, cannot be solved, and the poor, the pensioners and the young cannot face the winter. The implementation of the budget by the office relies in one of its parts of the money from the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, and it has not been submitted to Brussels. The office isn't planning to bring it in. It's about leaving it on a regular basis. He doesn't have a regular, and if he does, he'll still be processing it. So where's the pension recalculation money coming from? Some people will say that we are drawing a lot of black frescoes in the parliamentary group of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. No, it's the facts. We're alerting them to bring intelligence and thought to their resolution. The problems can only be solved on one condition: we have one, and it is that Parliament continues to work, does not disband, and we form a working government on a regular basis. The majority of Bulgarians like the office, but if we do not regularly form a government and disband parliament, the office is tied with no budget, no change in the Energy Act, as the prime minister asked, to influence prices without changing the Water Act to affect the cost of water without recalculating pensions. I mean, the responsibility is here in this room. The responsibility is in our hands. Dear Bulgarian citizens, on 4 April and 11 July the majority of you requested a change in the current model of governance. A model where institutions do not work, hidden circles make decisions for them, steal 10 billion. lv. Annually. This remains unpunished by the judiciary. The state is sinking, and poverty and inequalities are growing. I'm trying to summarize the pattern. We from the BSP for Bulgaria have been fighting this model for four years, but we were alone in the previous parliament. Now other parties called parties of protest and change came into the National Assembly. We were glad that GERB and Borisov will no longer manage, but the actual change of the model has not started. By now, we should have changed the Law on the Judiciary in order to have judicial reform and justice. Change the Public Procurement Act to stop handing out money without competitions to close firms and advance, to recalculate pensions and so on and so forth. The Water Act had to be changed so that the leaks and the lack of haze would not be included in the price that people pay. We could have done a lot of work and had to do to start the real breakdown of the behind-the-scenes model, which is set, I confirm for 10 times, of this tribune, is set here in Parliament because it is laid down in the laws. There's a record that you can give money without a contract and an advance. And whatever changes at the tops of businesses and management until that changes, it's not gonna happen. That is why we are repeating on behalf of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria and we have extremely serious work to do if we want to continue with the change, the disassembly or which, as it calls it, the scratching of the model, but none of this is happening because, honourable colleagues, from the parties of the protest, you fell for the gulps. You've set dividing lines, you've called each other anything with offensive words, with personal qualifications, which is unacceptable. They overcame party and group interests. Here you accused each other of being on Prokopiev, the others in Peevski. Someone from GERB said: "We ruled in the three mandates with DPS and here said it, from the stands. Boyko Borisov said: "Yes, Prokopiev was giving me ministers for my offices." You've decided that changing the pattern can wait until you figure it out. Well, how long can it wait? Five, six months? Because the lack of a government of change and a lasting majority behind it concretes the current model. We from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria have a clear and clear position and this gives us the opportunity to approach you respectfully, collegially, in principle and responsibly. Why do we have it? Because, like I said, we've been fighting this model for four years and we've been taking all the punches we can take for all four years. For four years, we fought inside the party to free her from behind-the-scenes addiction. Some have presented this as internal party craps because it was convenient for them. No, it's consistent work to clear the face of BSP as a party that doesn't depend on them and on any of them. So today, with self-esteem and dignity, we say to you: there is no dependence on either of them, but we want a principled, stately, calm and mutually respectful conversation. We want stability for the state and security for the people. You must understand that the third term is a crisis, but it is also an opportunity. An opportunity to solve all these problems that we are talking about at the beginning. An opportunity to give this stability to the state and security to the people. Unfortunately, my fellow Members, since yesterday you have started imposing dividing lines again. Don't do this because it minimises opportunities for Bulgaria.. not for us, or for you. Since yesterday you started, if a mandate is given to BSP we will not support it. But you still don't know what the BSP would suggest if the President decided to give her a mandate? Like this, a priori and stubborn will not support you. And what are we going to the third elections, winter in a kind of crisis, in an economic crisis, in a social crisis, without a budget, and without money for the people? This will be your choice. But more than that, fellow Members, yesterday you approached the limit of tolerance and principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u30	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u31	We have been acting in principle for a month, stable and dialogueal manner, but you cannot say that you are warning the president that you will not support this or that third term in order to be careful who he gives it to. Don't interfere with the president's authority. The only one who can decide how things go from here on out is him. Don't give him conditions or twist his arms. And don't haggle on us. You quit, we'll take it, we'll give you this or that. We didn't fight for four years to clear our face from behind-the-scenes and from addictions to get us back in there. We want reason, tranquility and dialogue. We declare, as we know the burden, unlike some other 36 MPs, 36 MPs. The people have said that we cannot rule alone, as they have said to all of us, by the way, and that means that you are looking for a section among yourselves, and since we know our weight, we say that we are ready, if the President gives us the third term, to be responsible, to show dialogue, to invite everyone, without DPS and GERB, to talk, to put on the table five or six important things, to set a deadline for carrying out these things, to start discussions with the ministers of the service whether they accept to become a regular government...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u32	The weather, Mrs. Ninova, has exceeded much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u33	Excuse me, I'm finishing three sentences. How is it that we are faced with a choice that is clear, changing the pattern or delaying and giving it time to dig in. The choice is stability, security and care for people or economic, social, health, political, that and a constitutional crisis perhaps. The choice is personal party and group interests or interests of the state. This is an exam for real politicians and statesmen, and our grades will be written by the people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We'll continue with the hearing. We begin with the questions from the parliamentary groups. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u35	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Baltova, curious is the fact that this hearing should be initiated precisely by a Member of the National Assembly, who in recent years has the greatest merit for the so-called positive image of Bulgaria. Even more curious is the fact that it is this MP in his capacity as another position that has merit at the moment that a number of companies in the tourism business are facing bankruptcy and thousands of employed in the field were left out of work, as the measures that were at the beginning were not only inconclusive but also ineffective. It also seems strange to me from this tribune to speak to a minister of service, a strategy when, for six years and more than six years, the only thing that has been done has been given away beaches. We know that it is necessary in the tourism sector to look ahead, and the things we are planning today are happening at a more future stage. My question to Minister Baltova is: would you share what part of the advertising budget was spent at the moment you joined as Minister? I also have an appeal that is extremely important for the tourist business: to do everything possible to make such communication with the Ministry of Health that this time the tourist business is not the scapegoat.. Let us not talk about closing. However, if, for any reason, restrictive measures are imposed...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u36	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u37	Just a second! ...let such incentives be applied to the business to engage in the payment of direct subsidies, aids and any economic opportunities and tools, so that even in limiting a certain business he gets them and not just when closing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kozhuharov. Here you are, Minister Baltova, you have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u39	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kozhuharov, thank you for the extremely important questions you have asked. I will even allow myself to start with the latter, which is actually related to other measures that the Ministry of Tourism, along with the Ministry of Finance, the Economic Ministry and the Social Ministry, has foreseen. We very much hope that they will be implemented and I understand that there is indeed a serious request for updating the budget, so I ask for this update of the budget. It was established by the Ministry of Health Operational Action Plan for the development of the pandemic in which some of the requests of the tourism sector were taken into account, and we continue our daily dialogue with this institution. And here, colleagues, is the place to say that Stefan Yanev's office has created an extremely harmonious environment that allows us to achieve our goals purposefully, transparently and professionally. Regarding the funds that were spent at the time of the start of the activity of the office in the field of marketing, this is the National Marketing and Advertising Program, which is being prepared every year and which we are also in the process of preparing for next year. The Ministry of Tourism has spent 60% of the marketing and advertising costs, albeit not all paid. This suggested a very fast marketing strategy which, as I initially said, according to the time range of the office can not be strategic, but has a strategic impact, and we decided to work towards zero budget marketing. That is why I mentioned our first step towards this was the website of Bulgaria Travel. We are very active in presenting all our marketing activities that we have, including in social media. We made the first major expedition tour, involving more than 120 decade makers and companies large, the SEOs of companies on the German market. This was a joint activity with the tourism business as early as June. And here is also the place with regard to the exposure that you said to share that for the first time since 2007 2009 when we let the government of GERB Bulgaria participate in the most important bodies of the World Tourism Organisation, this year at the beginning of July, during our participation in the 66th Assembly of the World Tourism Organisation, I actually raised Bulgaria's candidacy and was singlely voted as Vice-President of the Commission for Europe to the World Tourism Organisation. This will allow our country to be an extremely active player on the international stage, to actively participate in tourism policy in this very important period for the restoration of the tourism sector and, at the same time, to apply global policies more harmoniously on our internal market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u40	Thank you, Minister Baltova. We're moving on to a question from GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, during the mandate of the last regular government of GERB was developed and protected in the European Commission a special measure for the sectors of hotels, restaurants, tourism and transport. The measure became known as 80/20. Under this measure, the representatives of the listed economic sectors received 290 BGN. for an insured person, combined with the measure 60/40, by which 60% of the employee's insurance income was paid by the State. They paid off nearly 50 million. BGN, which reached 2937 employers and self-insuring persons, under this measure were preserved more than 33 thousand jobs. My question to you, Madam Minister, is: why has the industry recognised as a successful measure not been extended by the office by state budget funds from the date after 30 June so that the entire summer season and the tourist sector can benefit from it? What measures have you envisaged to support tourism as a priority sector and one of the sectors which is expected to be most affected by a possible fourth wave of horse mackerel and to ruin autumn and winter tourist seasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u43	Thanks for the question. In general, it can be said that the state of economic activity in the tourism sector must always be taken into account when developing economic support measures for the sector. Usually we have effectively closed sectors and subsectors in Bulgaria with an order from the Minister of Health. In these cases, there is usually a ban on carrying out economic activities, such as tour operators and tour operators, stop holding group travel trips, stop taking place event tourism, nightclubs, bars, discotheques, clubs, tour guides and so on do not have the opportunity to function. There is another level at this level, and at this level 3. 4 which is in the level of the health plan, we have provided for, apart from measure 60/40, which has a new redesign yes, we have not continued this 80/20 because this is how we have assessed both economically and in financial terms that it would be better to have a new design of the measure 60/40. You know, now 60/40 is down 30% and 50/50 is down 20%. To this group of state of economic efficiency, level 3. 4 which is according to the Health Plan, we have also provided for other measures for free support of the business, which we very much hope that, when adopting the updated state budget, they will be able to be implemented very soon. For example, an employment conservation measure of 80/0, i.e. cover the insurance income of the affected persons, and 80% of the employer's contributions will be borne. This measure has been extended with the inclusion of self-insuring persons, in addition to the payment of financial assistance for tour guides as self-employed persons on the basis of a minimum monthly income of 2019. In addition, measures to cover operating costs on a percentage basis on the amount of revenue reduction 2020 by 2019 on a medium-term basis, which is how seasonal businesses will be compensated, and we believe that the resource will be distributed more fairly. We appeal and hope that this will indeed continue, namely the 9% VAT measure for all tourism sectors, to be applied by the end of 2022. Level 3 according to the Health Plan is a level at which we have partially closed, that is, part of the activity cannot be carried out, as it will be ordered by the Minister of Health, without listing the specific situations, here again applies the new redesign of the measure 60/40, and also the 35 euro touchdown per seat. Level 4 is when we have a partially closed part of the activity cannot be carried out. These are guest houses, open under special regime, restaurants and cafes only house delivery is allowed. Here, in addition to the traditional first two, we believe that the employment conservation measure must be maintained, which is combined according to the scope of limitation of activities, with more than 50% decline, to apply 80/0. This means to cover 80% of the insurance income of the persons concerned and 80% of the employer's insurance contributions will be borne, the measure 60/40, 50/50, respectively, at a 30 and 20% drop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u44	Thank you. "BSP for Bulgaria" "Please come in."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Before I ask my specific question, I would point out that I still expect to know when you will provide us with a full public report on advertising contracts and concession contracts concluded by the Ministry of Tourism in recent years. I think this is part of the audit you had to do in the tourism sector. However, you will hardly be able to deny, too, that practically all recommendations of international tourism organisations to national industries, as a key factor in restoring the tourism industry after the crisis, is product diversification in tourism. Greece's tourism minister at the beginning of the year said he would rely more on spa and balneo-tourism. In fact, Bulgaria has natural advantages in this area with the presence of numerous mineral waters and springs. I recall that Bulgaria was a profilerium of the Roman Empire. In this regard, I would like to hear from you what measures the Ministry of Tourism has taken to implement EU Directive 2011/24 on cross-border health, which regulates the use of mineral waters for profiling and rehabilitation needs of EU citizens and the award of related medical services by health funds, pension funds and insurance companies of Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u46	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u47	Dear Members of Parliament, thank you for the question.. Both questions were very substantial. On the first question, however, I would like to ask: do you have a specific request for these contracts? [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev.]] Yeah, we got them. In addition, a full audit of all public contracts was carried out at the beginning of the mandate, as well as continuous monitoring of all concession contracts. But if you are interested and willing, we are ready today to present copies of all these documents. [[Heckling]] Of course, of course........ is quite normal is such a practice. With regard to the second question, yes, it is extremely important. Bulgaria is a country that has not only its historical heritage, which allows cultural and historical tourism to be developed, but it also has its natural resources that allow it to develop almost all parts of its territory and transform its destinations into excellent destinations for balneotourism, for spa, for wellness tourism. In addition to being second to Iceland in the number of mineral springs, however, the most important thing of all is that we must use them as intended. And I would even like to say that, including the Recovery Plan, one such opportunity is given to use these mineral springs. With regard to the fact that... are there agreements already concluded with health crates? For the last 15 years, as I have also been very active in participating as a person who has been building the image of the state as a destination for tourism both in national and international and for my short participation here in tourism policy, I can say that this sector has always been of priority importance. Secondly, in Bulgaria, the previous cabinet has developed a special strategy for health tourism and it is constantly acquiring its real connotations, real applications. In the previous term there was a very active relationship between us and, of course, Germany's health funds, including such agreements. We also very actively work with the Bulgarian Union of Balneology and SPA Tourism, very active during these three months we worked, including at the level of marketing activity, with the Bulgarian-German Chamber of Commerce. From the beginning of June I made a webinar with leading tour operators on the German market, which had a focus on balneo-tourism. Negotiations are also being held with other countries, such as Finland, which I hope will very soon have real applications, because in reality this is an extremely unusable source. Within these three months, I would also like to say that a working group has also been set up, which has also held its meeting, to update the strategy for developing health tourism, so I hope that the next working group will already have much more real results than what we have achieved so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u48	Thank you, Minister Baltova. We're moving on to the next group. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u49	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Madam Minister, as we know, the tourism industry is one of the most affected as a result of the crisis. My question is specific with regard to the fact that during the summer season we have retreated from some quite proven tourist markets over the years that we have in Western Europe: what were the steps of the caretaker government in taking action to remove or bring into the Bulgarian tourist market as safe from a destination of a kind, if you could describe them in particular in a few words? Second question: in relation to the restrictions imposed in the tourist business on closure of the horse crisis, are they, of course, provided, in addition to the measures listed by you, and new grant schemes to compensate for the losses suffered by the tourism industry? Because, as we know, in the beginning, the measure 60/40 was very inadequate in terms of closed businesses and when the business had to bear 40% of the insurance burden on 0% income, this went on too long. So does the Ministry of Tourism provide for synchronised actions with the Ministry of Economy to compensate these liabilities in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u50	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u51	Thank you for your questions. The first question was actually: what did we manage to do? This season so far really shows the return to viability of the tourism sector. First of all, honourable Members, I would like to thank all those who work in the tourism sector. Many investments have been made in fixed tangible assets, human capital investments that continue. Every day, however, the sector has a serious need, it will continue to have such a need, and we must continue our policy so that we are resourcefully providing it with human capital, financial and social support. But what has happened and why have we managed to achieve these excellent results at the present time,... 2.2 million tourists only for the months of May, June and July, which is far higher than 2.2 times compared to the same period of 2020? First of all, as soon as I entered the office, I defined that the mission of the office in the sector of Tourism would be yes, the return to viability of the sector, but while maintaining the health of the visitors and the workers. To this end, it is really working in harmony with the other members of the office. At the beginning of my exhibition today in response to Mrs. Angelkova I said that in the first place our aim was really Bulgaria to be a green zone and I gave an example that even today to open the map of Re-open EU, it is green. This means that tourists can safely choose Bulgaria as their tourist destination when they have easy access to travel. Based on the possibility and the idea of having easier access to tourism within the European Union Bulgaria, although this is actually more in the work of the Ministry of Health, including ensuring.................................................................. We have already gathered, including by roll call from all tour operators, their requests for such antigen tests by the end of September, which have been sent to the Ministry of Health. In parallel, we have updated the rules for work in accommodations and dining establishments, as well as, of course, all tourist sites, and also created a Health Protocol which I have already communicated a little while ago, with which we are in fact indicating exactly what action should be taken in the case of infected by a horse or in the case of contact persons, and I have said that for the first time in early July two quarantine hotels have already been designated. Not only is it my personal opinion, but also our cabinet that Bulgaria should send positive messages. Yes, because we are one destination where, in addition to having an extremely high quality tourist product, it employs extremely quality employees, staff for which, of course, much investment is needed to keep it. That is why, within the office, we also held a meeting of the Interdepartmental Council of staff in which important decisions were adopted, among which there is an urgent need to increase the image of professions in the sector.Tourism, from inter-institutional work to raise this sector. That is why the idea was raised to set up a think tank council, including with the participation of international experts to work on purpose in this area. These are briefly the answers to the first question. Regarding the second question. I have drawn up the economic measures that we have foreseen. They are discussed, of course, with the Minister of Finance, the Social Minister, the Minister of Economy. In particular with regard to grant schemes. Apart from those who are at the moment, we have not discussed further, but in any case, small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to participate in a number of programmes in the next operational period. This week, we have actually also had a meeting with representatives of the institutions who will manage operational programmes so that we can discuss the place of tourism in the next programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u52	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we are all aware that the tourism sector, including in the broader sense, is very important for economic development, although the statistical information we have in Bulgaria, the way in which we collect it and report it, unfortunately, does not always give uniform results and therefore the assessments are hesitating exactly what this contribution is in terms of added value in the economy, but whatever it may be. We see that last year, when there was a serious decline and when no measures were taken in time to limit the damage to tourism, this decline significantly affected the country's gross domestic product as a whole. Although it is really not the job of the office to deal with too strategic and long-term measures, but as we see that new dividing lines continue to be drawn in the current Parliament and it is very difficult to reach consensus, further elections can be reached. In this situation, my question is related to the slightly longer-term perspective. It is not so long-term if we get involved more quickly, it is the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Unfortunately, that's where we're behind. However, in general, I would like to ask you: what are the specific projects provided for in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and the specific support the tourism sector will benefit from? If we can divide the answer: which of these are related to the immediate survival and restoration of the sector; which are related to the long-term transition that awaits us, along the lines of digitalisation and the Green transaction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u54	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u55	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I thank Associate Professor Chobanov for the question he asked, which is not only important but also extremely relevant in light of what we are currently working on in Bulgaria. I will allow myself to answer that question, yes, in the two aspects that you have pointed out, but rather from the following point of view. In general, for the entire Recovery and Sustainability Plan, my view is that we must speak openly, honestly and specifically. What is specific in the preparation of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan is that the reforms and investments underlying it are directly linked to the recommendations to Bulgaria under the European Semester for 2020 and 2019. The approach, honourable Members, when drawing up the National Plan shall be determined individually by each State. The guidelines for the development of national plans drawn up by the European Commission provide the possibility of structuring reforms and investments by components that can be linked to a particular sector or activity or to a specific topic. The approach that Bulgaria has chosen when it was given the opportunity to choose one of the ones that were possible, it has chosen a national plan, which excludes the development of specific measures for the sector "Tourism" which was not originally set in the development of the Plan. In fact, then I will say that no one from the Bulgarian government has reacted at this political moment, has raised his hand, has reacted to change this approach. It was only when the first draft came in autumn that a working group was created in the Ministry of Tourism, in which I was also a member, which, however, never met, which a working group then did, that it placed the importance of our sector and made a request that it be included in the Recovery Plan. A little later in December, a working group was established, an extremely active working group, specifically with measures in the area of digitalisation of the sector to be included in the Plan. In our period I can assure you that I, which was not so deep into all approaches, have read, including the 850 pages, in the original French National Plan. Yes, this approach Bulgaria has chosen is an approach that many other economies, many other countries have chosen. However, in the period of the office, in the context of talks held, exchanged correspondence with the central coordination unit, we have repeatedly indicated that tourism is a sector of importance and given the need for serious investment and that indeed some of these 6.3 billion should be targeted specifically at this sector for which targeted measures are needed. What we have succeeded and which will certainly be able to be realised, I am convinced, although the Plan is still, as I know in fact, not quite in its final rights, but specifically in the latest version of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, I would like to say that the projects with which we will then be able from the sector to apply, as well as those that are included, are projects that will have an impact on its immediate survival, as we expect that autumn these 13% will be already in Bulgaria's budget. That is, as a third budget of Bulgaria and will be able to be spent. They are in the following investments and programmes: The first is a component of a low-carbon economy, Investment 1: Energy efficiency in a building fund, where the second and third components provide for measures to finance energy renovation of non-residential buildings, including public buildings, buildings in the field of production, trade and services where tourism undertakings are actually eligible. In the framework of Investion 9: "Research activities for the development of a pilot project for cogeneration heat and electricity from geothermal sources', which I indirectly shared earlier on the possibilities for balneotourism, spa tourism and so on, this project consists in updating the information on geothermal potential in the country and preparing a project solution for a pilot system for the use of this geothermal energy. Why? It will have indirect influence, develop and improve the sustainability of tourism, because this project will create an opportunity to study the currently unused renewable source, on the one hand. It's geothermal energy. I'm going to make a detour here. I would be very happy if, as in Iceland, when tourists travel by bus, exactly the pipes on which the mineral waters flow, with which 70% of the capital Reykjavik is heated, we see it in Bulgaria and our tour guides present it. On the other hand, these will be innovative systems that will provide energy for home, industry, agriculture, balneology and tourism. In addition, in the updated Recovery Plan in a component...................................................................................................... You know that there is basically digitalization and green transition. These are the main ones with different resource distributions. I would also like to mention that the sector "Tourism" is specifically mentioned in the Regional Development Programme, which will support the implementation of infrastructure measures aimed at improving health and social services, also education, vocational training, culture, sport, tourism, sustainable urban mobility, digital and safe transport connectivity and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u56	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u57	Dear Madam President, dear Mrs. Baltova, colleagues! We've heard a lot of answers. I'd like to ask a few questions, Mrs. Baltova. As we are about to update the budget, are funds provided for the extension of the State aid measure outside the subsidisation of air transport seats of EUR 35? Is such means at stake with the possibility of subsidising and transport seats connected to buses and railways? My other question, which I think is not insignificant at all, is: are funds provided for in the update of the budget to support the management organisations of the tourist area? You know that Bulgaria is divided into nine tourist areas. Many of them have already been created, but, unfortunately, in the years back, they have not received the necessary assistance, and the basis of these organizations was to show their potential abroad. I would very much like to hear how far the debate on the status of national resorts has come, because when we talk about perspective, this is one of the topics we should not miss. And last but not least, the problems of employment in the tourist sector were also spoken from this tribune. I want to know if any additional measures have been taken to encourage third-party workers to be involved? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u58	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u59	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you for asking questions that are extremely relevant. First, with regard to the subsidy for bus and coach transport, which are for tourism purposes. This is the Minister of Transport and Communications. He will assure you that on the very first day of our mandate, I have put this issue, which we have discussed more than once, but at this time of our mandate we have no solution that bus and rail seats can be subsidised which are for tourism purposes. But I personally support this measure extremely much. Why? Because indeed bus and rail transport, especially rail transport is one of the environmental modes of transport, it is encouraged. Not to mention that this year is the year of rail transport and many economies have made a number of investments to develop this sub-sector of travel. The second question that you asked, apart from being very close to me, at the same time we invested enough resources, I would say, I don't mean just financial, because the financials were not intended to develop this concept. The concept of tourist zoning is a modern form of marketing for each tourist destination. In Bulgaria, such a concept was developed and I was very happy during the years when it found its legal reflection, i.e. regulation, I could say. Bulgaria is divided into these nine regions, where, however, in all these years, since the Concept was adopted in 2015, very sadly, almost nothing has happened. What did we do? Since the first day and during the National Tourism Council, which we held on June 18 in Sliven, the main point of the discussion was precisely tourist zoning. A project related to the development of marketing strategies for the nine tourist areas had already been launched at the Ministry of Tourism, which we discussed with tourist areas in our mandate. At the same time, we have prepared a legislative initiative at 2:00 tomorrow, we will have a meeting here in Sofia, together with representatives of the nine tourist areas, during which we will discuss this legislative initiative and propose it at a public discussion, so that it can enter the National Assembly very soon. What's her nature? It's mainly in two directions. The first heading of these tourist destination management organisations to be independent structures insofar as they can manage, including their financial resources, because it is currently so done that the tourism minister creates the organisation of the tourist area, manages it and controls it. In addition, these organisations, yes, there is a project in which, as I said, besides the development of marketing strategies, fixed tangible assets are also provided for their offices, but there is nothing de facto being done. The second component. I hope you will have an opportunity very soon, for example, to submit this legislative initiative. Yes, we foresee that the Marketing and Advertising Plan has a separate feather, which amounts to nearly 8 million. BGN, for the next year I mean, only for the organizations for management of tourist areas, which is in line with the budget, which is needed for them to be able to implement the actions that are laid down in the Plan, which is part of the Marketing Strategy next year. I would really like the next team to realize that. With regard to the status of national resorts, unfortunately, this topic did not acquire the necessary switching within our mandate. I can assure you that, including from a scientific point of view, I am very closely related to it and I hope that it will continue working on this from the next government. We really haven't had the physical time to work, but I know her very well. Thanks again for the questions, very important.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u60	Thank you. Moving on to the second round of questions. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u61	Thank you, Madam President. We've received answers to a lot of questions that concern the tourist industry. As I said in my previous question, it is very important in the tourism sector that we look forward. Either way, whatever happened, it happened. In that regard, it's my next question. Pretty soon, perhaps in June, at the invitation of the Ministry of Tourism, an expedition tour was organized, attended by a significant number of journalists from Germany. It was reflected quite well on this market, which was extremely positive for the next few weeks, as reservations on this market have grown significantly. Given that this initiative has been quite successful, are you planning others by the end of the active summer season, in which markets, if such initiatives are planned? We are also talking about the summer season, but if we want to have a successful winter, we must also take action for this market right now. I guess you guys already have ideas. And something that was certainly not advocated, I did not hear any comment on the topic regarding conference and congress tourism. We are currently in a situation where the impact of the Kovid crisis is still significant on the tourism industry, but when we talk about high-ranking events that would have a serious bearing on the development of this sector for our country, these events are usually organised at least a year or two or three ahead. I would also like to hear your opinion on this subject: how do you see things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u62	Thank you, Comrade Kozhuharov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u63	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kozhuharov, really very narrow issues, very important, and they should be a topic of both operational and strategic nature. Yes, in fact, this was the first of its kind expeditionary initiative that we implemented together with the tourism business in an extremely short period, but with an incredible impact. You shared it yourself. The good news is that this happened exactly in the period when we had the opportunity to encourage the interest again in Bulgaria for travel in the country. Unfortunately, we're not predicting such an event, I'd call it what it was. For example, I can share that two days ago I had a meeting with Bulgaria's extraordinary and plenipotentiary ambassador to Israel. As in Israel, we anticipated an event that would most likely be postponed, we discussed exactly the opportunity for Israeli decadent makers who would actually visit Bulgaria on the principle on which we had made this visit with German tour operators and those who are also representatives of airlines. As I said, we are currently developing the Annual Marketing and Advertising Program. In this programme, we foresee if, of course, this is possible, because at the moment, traveling to Britain is at another level, we are predicting for this market such an initiative that will probably also be realized. At the beginning of my presentation, to the first question I answered to Mrs. Angelkova, I also pointed out something very characteristic, which was born in the world, now in the context of a crisis, namely the approach of Travel Bubble. That is, we have done, applied this approach, namely this is to make a bubble between destinations that are close to consumption with regard to the feelings they have towards the destination concerned. We have really achieved success with Poland, with the Czech Republic, with Romania. So our other idea is to make a similar initiative in markets that are from Central Europe. With regard to the second question, I just want to say that the initiative, which was on the expedition tour, was related not only to visiting tour operators, chiefs of major... representatives of stakeholders, but also had journalistic very good coverage. Surely the information reached all 11,000 Rice desks in Germany. With regard to the second question that you mentioned, I would like to say that in order for us to be prepared and have a successful end to this and to the next season, there is a very serious issue which is actually a function of an action that is a personal decision. My view is also that it is an action at the level of company policy. This is the process of vaccination. So the success of our next season, which we will shortly share, that we have started preparing the initiatives for our winter season, it will very much depend on the vaccination of staff, as the trend is already the visitors traveling themselves to choose destinations where the population has been vaccinated. This is no longer just a marketing policy, but, in fact, a choice by the consumer himself, of the travelers themselves. We have prepared, we have a working group, we have developed an action plan that is an update of the National Strategy for Sustainable Development, which has unfortunately not been monitored for the last period. We have developed such a plan, which is for the months from July to December, which, in parallel, we are developing and will provide the next cabinet with a strategy for the winter season, including consulting representatives of foreign partners. I mean foreign tour operators, foreign tour operators associations, hotel managers. I personally keep in constant contact with ministers of other countries. On the occasion of Israel, I would like to say, as they also have a budget adoption this week and after repeated inquiries, I did not actually make direct contact with the Minister of Tourism, but on the other hand he received a very extensive letter from me and next week, which he will be, there will be an opportunity to participate in a conference with him. The third question you asked is related to the specific and congress tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u64	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u65	Yes, this is also an important issue in the measures that are laid down in the Ministry of Health Action Plan, it is specifically mentioned under what conditions, how many people can participate in a hall. With regard to our promotional campaign, yes, it will also be directed in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u66	The parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u67	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Baltova, tourism is extremely important for the economy of the country, especially in an area such as Burgas, from which I have been elected as a national representative. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, summer tourism formed between 60 and 70% of the total tourist traffic in the country, and in the summer of 2019 nearly five and a half million foreign tourists visited Bulgaria and mostly our Black Sea coast. According to data from this year in the system of ECTI from 1 to 8 August, two and a half million foreign and Bulgarian tourists have chosen to visit Bulgaria for a holiday. According to media information, the beaches are crowded, which is good for the tourist business, but it is crucial to have timely planning and to have already started preparations for the next season in 2022. In view of the pandemic we are in, a continuous increase in the number of cases of infection, my specific question to you is: what is the strategy of the Ministry of Tourism to restore the summer tourist flow in the levels that were before the pandemic? Which markets do you rely on for recovery? Which countries will you work with to attract tourists? What measures does the Ministry of Tourism take to ensure the normal course of the summer season related to the management of sea beaches, accommodation and restaurants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u68	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u69	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members! Thank you for the questions you asked so that I do not repeat myself, as some of them have already been exposed to Burgas is one of the active tourist areas. It is also a center of the Tourist Region Management Organisation. This summer season I can even tell you the figures that you mentioned from 2.2 million, only they are not for the first eight days of August, but from the beginning of May to the month of May. Of course, I can also tell you the specific figures that are available in Burgas compared to May last year and May "July this year we have a growth of exactly 100% of the visitors in particular Burgas. With regard to the measures we take, they are of a different nature. Firstly, measures to restore the tourism sector, its viability, which I have expressed several times today and I do not think it is necessary to repeat them. Secondly, measures related to management, of course, on the beaches. I can assure you that very active " 266 beach checks are scheduled for this season. By the beginning of this week, 206 secure and nine unguarded sea beaches were checked. In addition, 19 checks were carried out using the secret client method, and the purpose of these checks is, of course, also to check whether the prices of the beachries correspond to whether the concessionaires, the tenants tie the supply of beachries to any additional services. Regarding how we will initiate, how we will encourage tourists to choose again the Bulgarian Black Sea coast for next year, these are the prospects that will lie in our Development Strategy for next year. Some of them I've already mentioned. In any case, they will be linked to the National Operational Plan of the Ministry of Health, with economic and social measures, of course, with a very active marketing strategy. Here you asked what the markets will be that will be targeted for us. In one aspect, I can say that the targets will be those to which there will be easier access, first of all. We wish that Bulgaria will indeed remain a green destination. I can definitely say that I think it is extremely successful that we have joined precisely this European framework, that we are part of the European framework, that we were first, early in June, among the first seven countries of the European Union, to apply the digital green vaccination certificate. What are the target markets? Still, as I told you, we are in the process of preparing the National Marketing and Advertising Plan for next year. In any case, the target markets are in addition to Romania, which has traditionally changed its place with Germany in the last 15 years, but in any case will be the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, also Romania, Poland, Ukraine, Czech Republic, Israel. We will also focus our efforts on the German market, which I said, on the UK market and the neighbouring countries of our countries -- Serbia, northern Macedonia, Greece and Turkey -- because all over the world, neighbouring markets are the ones that generate the most tourists for each individual market. Accordingly, for each of these target markets, the Ministry of Tourism is developing specific strategies that will be aimed precisely at promoting travel, promoting the choice of destination Bulgaria, when the epidemiological situation allows it. So these are the basic guidelines that I could give at the moment on the issues that you have asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u70	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a declaration on behalf of the group Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's time to get a grip! It's the National Assembly, it's not kindergarten, it's not a Mahleni reunion, it's not a show program. The whole of Bulgaria is watching us. People expect a solution to their problems, expect a stable government, not party assembly and not people without experience, and without preparation at the head of the state. A party cannot turn Bulgarian citizens into hostages to satisfy its party interest. The forty-fifth National Assembly, at the request of IHN, ended in nine days to go to elections and they get more mandates. We congratulated them on their victory, although it was clear that they had no majority. We're in the same situation now. The forty-sixth National Assembly is once again pushing itself towards relaxation after only 20 days of life again by the same political power. However, we do not want to please a second such whim. Third elections in half a year do not want Bulgarian citizens either. Their problem is not to go to elections until the parties get the results and the partners that are comfortable with them. Their problem is the low incomes, the fourth wave of Kovid, their problem is the lack of support for businesses and households, the miserable pensions, the rise in heating prices, the electricity, the water that confronts economic disaster both people and households and companies. Therefore, this declaration is more an appeal to all reasonable people in this House. No more whims, no more nonsense, no more exposure to people, no more show-off of prime ministers with TV castings! When we opened this National Assembly, we from.. Stand up BG! We are coming! "We said, and now I will remind him that no one here is confused that this is a reality format, that this is a social experiment with Bulgarian citizens, that this is a TV democracy, that this is a TV television makes the power that this is a Chamber of Commerce or any other form of political engineering. However, there are colleagues who have obviously gone wrong. And that is why we ask: when will this stop, how many whims more, who is behind the maneuvers on the field and on the edge of the nerves of Bulgarian citizens whose interests serve the purposeful provocation of chaos? Who conducts this theater of absurdity in front of the eyes of Bulgarian citizens who expect us to solve their problems and not like each other and be offended? Isn't this a gross abuse of hopes and expectations of the people of the squares, is it a slap on the face of those who want a change that wants a breakdown of the sole model? Which one of them wants to replace one single model with another single model? Is that why people were beaten in the squares of Bulgaria? How long will a political centre of the backroom continue this? Until when did he like the number of MPs in his parliamentary group? Isn't that the replacement, isn't that the ritual dance to hide the shadow and long hand of the DPS behind the front of the proposed cabinet? [[(Shouting:) Bravo! (Applause from IHN.)]] You ask: where did we see the long hand of the DPS and it is time to respond? In the disappointing invitation of the "There is such a people" to the DPS to participate equally with the parties of the protest in the talks, through the back door, which the people of the protests accepted as a slap through the face; in the coordinated attack of GERB, the DPS and the "There is such a people" against the successful ministers of the caretaker government. The long hand of GERB and DPS is also in the Commission, which you will discuss shortly; a committee which was submitted with the signatures of GERB, with the signatures of And people ask: Is that why the protests were so that I would have such a people with DPS to submit committees with joint signatures? You do not expect that we, who faced the model of the eagles during the local elections in Sofia, will silence the nest of the Falcon, which you are trying to shrink in this Parliament? No, there won't be a nest like this, or at least it won't be with us. The only manifestation of reason is the decision and there is such a people to support President Radev for a next term, such as the last symbol of the protests you have not mocked. We will make every effort our parliamentary group to form a government with the third term, regardless of who it will be given to. Management against the crisis and in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens, aimed at a mandate for 6 months to meet the agenda of the Bulgarian people, the judicial reform, the pensions, the crisis, the budget update for next year, the recovery plan and sustainability in order to have money in the country in order to have money in the pockets of the Bulgarian citizens, and not of the party engineers whose projections are here in the Chamber. Mr. Borisov is gone, but the mob is on the field. They are now against the people, the money of the mafia is against the Bulgarian citizens. They buy support, they put together Marienette offices, they put together ministers, puppets. This money is now against us and against parliamentaryism. We're on the verge of a crisis, so it's time for leadership. What's the solution? To start a normal dialogue, to start normal political consultations between the political forces in the National Assembly, without GERB and without DPS. Negotiations to be conducted in the presence of the media in public and openly so that there are no later innuendoes and untruths. Let us start a normal dialogue for a counter-crisis cabinet that will lead the country out of the shallow of the crisis, on the basis of successful ministers from the office, with the participation of professionals from the guilds, without party officials for ministers. Step back from the parties to take a step forward Bulgaria. What we need to do to prevent an institutional and political crisis is to start normal, respectable, transparent and public talks here in this Parliament, because this chance of leadership falls precisely to the 46th Parliament. Colleagues, on the day we celebrate Shipka's worst fights, let's remember Vazov: Bulgaria is now watching all of us! [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u72	There is a floor for questioning the next parliamentary group, which seems to me to be the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u73	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, for the second consecutive year the state as an anti-crisis measure which it adopts to support the tourist sector is to give up half of the funds on concessions and rents on sea beaches. Against this step, the concessionaires and the tenants of the sea beaches have an obligation to offer, respectively, half or even less than half the price of the corresponding beach services, sunbeds, umbrellas and so on. In their vast majority, concessionaires and tenants of sea beaches comply with the conditions set out in the concession and rental contracts. But there is this case that you are familiar with as early as May 25th, that is, at the beginning of your inauguration as Minister of Tourism, and it is as follows. I give an example of Sunny Beach and Golden Sands, where about 70 per cent of the beach territory is transferred by the hoteliers because they need these places because they have sold them in their prepaid package services to their customers and to their tourists. The problem is that reassignment becomes at far higher prices than those laid down in the annexations of concessions contracts and rent in these beach areas. My question to you is: for the last two months, since you have been a Minister of Tourism and have therefore been officially informed, as I said, on 25 May by the hoteliers affected by this injustice, what action have you taken in this direction to remove this injustice? If you have taken any action, what are the results of these actions of yours?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u74	Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u75	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members! The question raised by the people's representative is absolutely correct. That's true. First, regarding the decisions taken to reduce the prices of beach accessories. Yes, last season in relation to the possibility that the Emergency Act also gave, there was such a measure that this year could not have been implemented, no action had been taken or had been taken, but there was no final result. We have undertaken such ones, it is true, and by a decision of the Council of Ministers, we have decided to give concessionaires and sea beach tenants the opportunity to reduce the prices of beachries and thus reduce the remuneration they then receive in the national budget, in general, to take place in different budgets. The second question, which is actually the subject of this question, is extremely important. I'm not only familiar with a letter, I've been involved with a thete-a-thetethete, and I've been talking to the hotel reps. My personal view as managing this process is that obviously changes must be made to concession contracts... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Excuse me? No, I'm not talking about the annex. I say that such changes should be made, or possibly through the Law, to allow flexible forecasting of the prices they then offer to hoteliers. Because the cases I am very familiar with, especially on the part of the hoteliers, were exactly such that they received a reduction, including in some cases 50% or zero prices, and then attributed them to hoteliers at a much higher price. Firstly, these are relationships between private entities and the State is de facto not entitled to interfere with these relationships. However, secondly, this could happen with a special clause in contracts with concessionaires. This is the approach that I think is right, but at this point there is no way. Unfortunately, significantly better conditions were provided last year. I am on the side of the hoteliers, as a matter of fact, as they form their offer far before receiving this surprise from the concessionaires. I am confident that a solution will be found to this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u76	The DPS Parliamentary Group has requested a declaration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u77	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This year is particularly important for the future of Bulgaria as part of the European Union because the foundations for the next 10, 20, 30 years are laid. And something very important, vital to restore normality, restart statehood, reaffirm democracy and the political orientation of our country. Okay, everybody basically says they're expecting and they're aiming for this. But at the end of the day, we have to judge by the lawsuits. The people mostly judge by the cases. What do we see on the political stage? Attempts to impose desired images for yourself and for the opponent in one direction or another, starting from the election campaign and the messages of parties and coalitions, until today. Unfortunately, instead of presenting policies, programs and plans for their implementation, participants in the election campaign focused solely on which parties will not work, what they will not do. It may be normal to talk in an election period, but in a situation of real politics, real governance to continue to talk about what you're not going to do seems ridiculous and irresponsible. 4 years ago, the DPS requested disassembly of the GERB model. Do you think people don't remember? They remember! Did the DPS receive support from parliament or from outside the parliament? No! Which means what? That the GERB model was happening with the clear or silent consent of political parties and coalitions in parliament and outside parliament. When some parties saw that the GERB model was totally wasted and rejected by the majority of the society, these parties embezzled the application for disassembly. Thus, there are many other examples of division, opposition and hatred, lack of expertise, damage to democracy and statehood, lack of normality and the need for its recovery. The DPS was the only political force that stood up to GERB and pointed out the disability of the model and remained alone. Suddenly taking the position of the only opponents of GERB, all of them went to build and impose a negative image of DPS. It's been heard from everywhere: we will not negotiate with the DPS, we will not manage with the DPS. Why? Because you rely on a short memory. Isn't that right, Mrs. Manolova? Who's behind your maneuvers? If you look at your biography, you'll probably see a solid DPS behind you there. [[Multiple applause from GERB-SDS, DPS, ICN.]] And at the moment there is probably a political centre, which the whole public already knows is an oligarchic-media NGO group. I won't mention the qualifications, templates and labels you're trying to stick to the DPS. To all those who rely on short memory, we mean: you cannot ignore the voters of the DPS! You can't build when you're breaking up! You cannot restore democracy with undemocratic models and methods! You can't restore dialogue without dialogue! You cannot underestimate the DPS, forgetting that the DPS is the only party that has a decisive role to play in the victory over totalitarian communist power! DPS plays a decisive role in the country's historic positioning at the dawn of democracy! NATO and the European Union were the pity of democracy. By historical privilege, our country's membership in NATO and the European Union happened when the DPS participated in the government. As much as you're trying to change history, the facts remain. Madam President, honourable Members! After the last elections and requests submitted by the DPS, we expected to see dialogue, policies and programs, vision of reforms, decisive steps to restore democracy and restart statehood. We expected through dialogue to restore normality in the state, the institutions to restore dialogue and to work normally, to restore democracy and restart statehood. Unfortunately, we see a new beginning of timelessness. We see political weakness, lack of vision, lack of expertise, lack of dialogue, lack of mutual respect and tolerant behaviour. Madam President, honourable Members! Regardless, we from DPS sincerely hope to see work in the name of Bulgaria and all Bulgarian citizens. Today we have the high expectations of citizens for change. They expect results very soon. This time you won't get past the anti-DPS rhetoric trick of covering up your political weakness! The DPS isn't in power, is it? I thought the DPS was in isolation. You're smashing DPS voters, aren't you? The health crisis, the economic crisis, the financial crisis, the political crisis cannot be solved with anti-DPS rhetoric! By the way, this was also a favorite tool in the management of GERB since its creation. As long as there is no meaningful dialogue, priorities, policies, vision for development, there will be no change. Political parties should learn to put aside their selfishness, sit down and set national priorities, talk about policies. Forget the political rematch you're looking for! Forget about division and hatred! Be at the height of your responsibilities and work for Bulgaria. Bulgaria deserves its dignity as a state of European and world policy. Bulgarian citizens deserve a better life. Present policies, a growth plan, measures to deal with the crisis, a vision for reforms. Show that you are not just about dialogue, but you can lead it. Dialogue requires respect and partnership, not the imposition of the will of the stronger or larger. The situation requires dialogue and compromise in the name of calm, security and stability. Thank you for your attention. Let's work on it! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u78	Declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u79	One sentence!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u80	No, no, there's no personal explanation in the declarations. [[Heckling]] It is now 11.25 p.m. We have not foreseen a break in the Rules of Procedure, but I suggest that we give the holiday a half-hour rest, and then proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u81	One sentence!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u82	In the pleadings, it is as if I and Toshko Yordanov were explaining why he called me, there is a court, and there are listeners. [[Laughter]] Let's get above it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u83	That's right. Welcome! [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u84	We continue with the questions to Minister Baltova. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u85	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! No doubt the debate on tourism is extremely important. However, tourism gives about 13% of the gross domestic product in the Bulgarian economy. There is no doubt about the possibilities and the unfulfilled potential in terms of mineral springs as well. It has become clear that we are second to Iceland in the presence of mineral springs, but unfortunately, we have not developed spa tourism and have not developed the possibilities associated with mineral waters. We have serious problems with the footage, and that's what we're talking about. We have serious problems with a clear and clear tourism strategy that is related to both the regions and municipalities, although in the theoretical order it seems that efforts are being made. I can practically say that I do not see anything linking sea tourism to the interior of the country or winter tourism to the interior of the country. I remember that in our domesticity as mayor we made efforts to convince the Ministry of Tourism that after one week at the sea it is possible to have tours, for example along the Russian-Turkish war line with the visit of Stara Zagora, Shipka, of Pleven. Such efforts deserve attention. I want to ask you: what are you doing to guarantee a complex tourist product? Unfortunately, there is no complex tourist product in Bulgaria and significant efforts should be made in this direction. On the other hand, the pandemic imposed another style of tourism and other lifestyles. I hope to deal with the pandemic soon, but at the same time I would like to know: what are we doing to move from megatourism, if I may say so, in these large tourist complexes and hotels to tourism with small family hotels, with guest rooms? And quite in the final, I think it is necessary to work hard for all-seasonity of the service, so I would like to ask you: what are you doing with regard to marketing the complex tourist product to ensure this polyseasonality of the service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u86	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the question, Mr. Zelenogorski. In general, sea tourism generates 70% in the last nearly 20 years of visitors to destination Bulgaria, including from foreigners and the Bulgarian tourist. This is a natural gift, a natural resource that we should rather continue to exploit sustainablely in order to have a further perspective on its development. In parallel with this, I can assure you that in recent years, including in the National Strategy for Sustainable Tourism Development, not only conceptually, but in fact with the plans that are being developed, which are being carried out, the one that we have updated for the second half of 2021 and are planning to be the basis of the National Marketing and Advertising Plan for 2022, is precisely the vision and understanding that Bulgaria should be and is currently marketed as a destination for year-round tourism. There is, however, another feature that you have actually touched on, and this is that when we talk about sea tourism, such tourist packages, such opportunities to combine sea tourism, and 100 km away can go even on rock climbing in Sliven, of course, can visit mineral springs and enjoy both spa tourism in the southern parts of the country or anywhere in Bulgaria. From this point of view, the marketing policy that we are currently implementing and which relates to both activities on the Bulgarian market and on the international markets is related precisely to the proposal of the tour operators. This is what the state does and encourages them, because there are developed routes for spa tourism, there are developed wine routes, and as today I had the opportunity to share, and with great satisfaction that we were able to complete the marketing strategies for the nine tourist areas. If you have the opportunity to look at their nature, you will understand that there, apart from that every tourist area has taken out its supplication, its uniqueness, so that a brand of the relevant tourist area can be identified. In parallel, the vast majority of the tourist products offered and with which we strive to encourage tour operators to develop such tourist packages are precisely offering combined tourism. Of course, ski tourism is one of our best tourist products, but it is extremely beneficially combined with spa tourism, including balneotourism, although it has a more healing effect. From this point of view, it is difficult for me to say whether we should talk about mega-to minitourism, rather we could focus our attention and we are doing it from mass tourism to tourism, supporting the development of the country's interior, I mean from an economic point of view. That is why, in the last two three years, there has been another very active trend which I believe has a very positive result. These are the so-called places where, in addition to co-working activities, these are Chepelare, Bansko, in parallel with this they have a very wide. "This is the shared economy, which has a very broad impact on local communities. And now the tour operators are offering people who are busy, these are local and the majority are even foreign entrepreneurs who are offered exactly such combined tourist packages, which give them the opportunity to have a social impact on the local population, of course. So I can assure you that the strategy that we are currently putting into the National Plan for Marketing and Advertising for the next year, as well as the nine specific tourist areas that I have told you about, and this should happen, of course, with an amendment to the Law, and we are also providing for a specific target budget, precisely those views that you have set out will be developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u88	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, of course, as in my first question, I addressed many of the strategic activities and objectives we are talking about, and for their implementation a regular cabinet is needed, a National Assembly is required to be able to seal them where the regulations require it. But we can still discuss these issues in this format as well. Overall, as we know, Europe is a leading destination and it is normal for the European Union to have some coordination on these issues and to make the relevant decisions and make them on time. In addition, a special working group has been established to the European Parliament, as we know, which includes 18 MEPs from the various European families. That is to say, normal coordination here requires not only a regular functioning cabinet, but also contact with these European families, and the presence of these European families, and such a strong presence, as we well know, has long been there for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. But what comes out and as recommendations both on the basis of their actions, knowing them well and on the analyses we do in the country, including at the Institute for Economics and Policies, we can identify four main directions for these recommendations. The first one has already been discussed, namely the mandatory inclusion of tourism in national recovery plans. The second, to specify the budget line under the Multiannual Financial Framework, which is specifically for tourism, as well as national programmes or parts of programmes to develop a Strategy for Sustainable Tourism at European Union level, including, however, with the necessary funding and feasible objectives and priorities, as well as a mechanism for managing tourism crises once again with the respective national coordination and the corresponding financial security. My question is: how do you look at such possible development directions, recommendations, how do you evaluate and how much you are currently holding meetings at European Union level, and how do you assess coordination with regard to tourism in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u90	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Chobanov, thank you for this question. Firstly, I would like to say that I know your analysis and in a slightly more serious particularity, of course, and what you mentioned, I do know it in detail, because you just mentioned it. However, what I can say, and I would like to say, is that, far before I take a place in this cabinet, I myself work in a number of EU structures on a number of programmes and in very close cooperation with those policies that you set out. In these policies, there is a strategic direction which is already in the draft of this strategy for the recovery of the sector, and apart from those expressions that you mentioned, there is also a focus for the entire green transition, for the whole digitalization of the sector. From this point of view, the Ministry of Tourism has continued its work in the direction that has been started and we are also involved in the economic affairs council, in the discussions that are being discussed on these issues, and at the same time we are closely monitoring the development of the entire environment. At this point, we support it, including the main directions, especially for this specific budget line, for the sustainable development of tourism in the context of both green transition and digitalisation, and it will enter and enter into the update of the Strategy that we are doing. In parallel, I would very much like to say this and encourage colleagues who will come after us to start working in another direction that is very important. I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to share it at the first fair this morning. You know, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that within the European Union, policies are currently subject to five missions. One of these missions is extremely closely related to tourism and it is in the context of translating the elements of the blue economy. For tourism, it is very important because, when we talk about an ecosystem, when we talk about interaction between tourism, ecosystem services and well-being, here we have to pay attention to this particular blue economy. So the three rehearsals that I'm going to direct to the next one are right in this direction, including the blue economy. It was a very important question you asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u92	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, before I begin my question, I will also declare a conflict of interest, as I have been working for more than 25 years in the event industry and in congress tourism. For this reason, however, I consider it extremely important for the Congress Bureau and for all Bulgarian associations working in this sector to ask you a few questions related to the pandemic and all the measures that are for recovery from it. We have to say that over 16 months or already 18 if a business is on line one, this is precisely congress tourism, because long before the first decision of the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly, a large part of the conventions and events in the country have been cancelled or postponed, which is still happening today. It is a big question of what are the measures so that they happen live events so that not only do we have a 30% or 50% reduction in a strong epidemiological situation, but to make all the opportunities that other European countries make, such as a detailed description of whether the people who visit them have been vaccinated, whether they have been sick, whether they will do a field test, that is, all countries are trying to restore the industry by starting live events. This is my first question: what are these measures, so that we can all associations that are in the country, and this is related, of course, to the whole hotel business and to all the halls that are in the country? The second part of my question is: do you foresee a state subsidy for the participation of Bulgarian associations in attracting major international events in Bulgaria? This is extremely important, because this is the practice in European countries, the state is involved in attracting these big conventions and events so as to make the destination much more attractive, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to create gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u94	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Capon, the issue you are bringing up is extremely important especially for Bulgaria, in which in the last 20 years there have been special investments made for the development of congress and event tourism, including I could say that there are already Master's programmes concentrated precisely in the field of event tourism. Within the framework of our mandate, we have held meetings with representatives who are part of the Confederation of the Tourist Business, including we have also held meetings with Mrs. Teodora Jilkova. It deposited the views of the Association before the Minister of Health and some of these views with regard to the measures that entered the National Operational Health Plan are there This topic was discussed shortly ago, including in the coulombs, because any web events, yes, they are effective to some extent, but they don't actually bring any revenue to tourism, they barely bring revenue to any part of the tourist business. Yes, they can provide information, they can encourage the development and implementation of some event, but not just because of the live connection during the event itself, but because no parts of the tourist business are involved, as we said. From this point of view, companies have been subsidised to participate in events. There is such a practice and the financial plan for next year is intended to provide subsidies. I am very familiar with both Austria and France and Finland, and very soon I have come to know their subsidy programme for this type of event, I hope that we will be able to move it. Follow him!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u96	Thank you. We are now moving on to expressing the attitude of the "There is such a people". Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u97	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister Baltova, first of all, I want to thank you for being here and giving these answers live. A number of questions have been raised that are essential for the entire tourism industry, and many of them have been given specific answers, which I really believe today's meeting has been extremely useful. With much of the things that you mentioned, I can agree. Let me just make a remark here on a subject that I do not entirely agree with more or less. This is the topic of zoning and so-called tourist areas. Yeah, theoretically, that sounds pretty good. In terms of stimulating the internal market also sounds somewhat practical, but when we talk about attracting foreign tourists and talking about the revenues we expect from them, I think this model is not quite as reliable. Rather, we need to focus on specific priorities and sectors, so that we can really show the world the best we have as resources, infrastructure and opportunities for tourism. I would like to take this opportunity to make a call to you. My request is that this is also extremely important for the entire tourism industry: let us, when decisions are made concerning the tourism sector, first discuss with the affected countries, so that there is no situation like yesterday, where information is given by an institution which is detrimental to the tourism sector, then another comes out to disprove this. You know that in the situation we live in, information reaches very quickly to each of our partners. In this regard, if we can say that the newspaper can kill the bank, this is also 100% valid for the tourism sector, so let's discuss it first and then submit information, which is mostly to the detriment of the tourist sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u98	Thank you. From GERB-SDS for attitude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u99	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Baltova, thank you for the answers you gave today in the Chamber. From your statement and from what you have answered most of the questions, I see that in fact the main thing you have done and which is commendable, of course, is to continue all measures and all anti-crisis policies that have been introduced by the government of Mr. Boyko Borisov both in terms of measure 60/40 and in terms of a 9% reduction in VAT, of EUR 35 per seat, of state aid to tour operators, of incentives for micro and small business and so on. I see that you are also realizing all the events that were set out in my day when we are talking about advertising the country for target markets for Bulgaria, such as cooperation with the Bulgarian-German Chamber, BUBSPA in terms of German health cases. We've been working on this case for a long time. In 2019, we signed an agreement that everyone in the industry supported, and I am glad that you are continuing this. It is the same with regard to expedition tours and targeted advertising, of course, and it is important to be so with the new realities in view of the mackerel pandemic with regard to the important, as I said, targeted and promising markets for the country. However, what you really did within two months, because that's how much the office is, is to put the logo of Bulgaria on the website of the Council of Ministers and from there send you to the page of bulgariatraval.org. This is not bad, but it was more important to think about how the redesign you made of the measure 60/40 affects workers in the sector and the employed. The main problem at the moment, I don't know if you're aware, it's right to do it, it's related to the lack of staff. Even after the crisis, there will be no one working in the sector unless immediate and urgent measures are taken and everyone employed is stimulated by the state to stimulate all employed in this sector. Because even now, on the Black Sea coast, the hotels they have opened are crowded, but there are no people who are working on qualified staff, and that's where your energy should be directed. Measure 60/40 "What did you change to it? There should be a decrease in turnover 30. 40%, not 20. 30%, as you said, but this, in practice, instead of helping the business, creates an opportunity for abuse. Because right now, in the strongest season, how do you expect there to be a drop between 30 and 40% in the tourism sector to help it? He actually needs support the most. This is a bit of a mess with the industry and this wording should be reconsidered. The Member of the National Assembly, who is surprised why I have initiated this hearing, which is, in fact, also the candidate of the "There is such a people" for the Minister of Tourism in the Cabinet, which we all expect to vote or not to vote on, and working in the sector, as it claims and is seen in his biography, 17 years, is appropriate to remind that since 2014, since the creation of the Ministry of Tourism, we have seen the highest growths both in terms of revenue and in terms of foreign tourists. 31% is the growth from 2014 to 2019 and 34% in relation to foreign tourists. The first for revenues from 2014 to 2019. This is thanks to the efforts and coordinated actions of all my colleagues in the offices of Prime Minister Borisov together in dialogue with the industry. These results didn't just fall off. They are the result of a lot of effort, a lot of work and you very well know it because the results in tourism come after that. It is important that you plan adequately here, Mrs. Baltova, because those who come after you must carry out what you lay as foundations. There's no time, Mrs. Baltova! The tourist sector not only suffers losses but faces the brink of survival and has no time for more wrong decisions and canceled orders. While hotels, restaurants and tour operators make it impossible to protect our image of a safe tourist destination, you, their representative in the government, do not justify their trust in communication with media, portfolio institutions and external markets. With each interview, you and the other members of the office should broadcast important messages, not conflicting messages to both Bulgarian and foreign tourists, as well as to hoteliers, tour operators and everyone employed in the sector. Apart from that, you today, from this tribune, took sides again and divided the industry again. Yes, each one is important sorry if I miss someone, thank everyone who works in the sector and copes in this difficult situation, but you should unite the sector and not divide it and take sides. You are a minister who must protect the interests of the entire sector. What we have witnessed lately is chaos, continuous change of orders and measures, confusion of workers in the sector and tourists...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u100	Your time, Mrs. Angelkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u101	One minute. I hope you know how important this is...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u102	You don't have it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u103	I'm finishing the sentence. Let me finish. And the others were on hold. I hope you understand how important it is to coordinate all actions with your colleagues. I said it in the motives, and I'm going to say it now: we literally witnessed a change of orders yesterday. The morning is announced that Sofia will close, after lunch is canceled, the business is confused, the customers too. In less than 24 hours, you pull the parking brake on a whole sector. I call on you for adequate measures and actions so that the sector can recover. The good intentions you have expressed are important, but we must act here now and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u104	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, many in this House and beyond have argued about whether a measure adopted in connection with the support of the business in the Kovid crisis is correct, effective or not. One thing we have never argued about, and it is that tourism was really the most affected sector of the cog crisis. And that is precisely why we believe that the management of this sector needs to be bolder, more responsible and with greater determination to take decisions to implement the relevant measures. Ms. Angelkova, unfortunately, the management of the Ministry of Tourism has not changed much in a positive direction since you and your successor ruled the Ministry. I say this truly with regret, and I will give some examples of the fact that it is acting indecisively towards supporting the sector. Firstly, I will refer to your answer to my question about the double standard of concessions I was talking about when asking my question. You, Madam Minister, as such, have the task of regulating the relationship between different entities, especially if State aid is used there and especially if you are part of the contract, from the contract anex. It is not written in the anex that, for example, private individuals will be sold beach services at half price, but to legal entities that there is no restriction. It's one thing for everyone, and it has to be respected. You are the man charged by the state to ensure that this is respected, as I said, because you are a party to this treaty. So I call on you as soon as possible.. Perhaps by the end of this week, to take measures and organise the resolution of this issue, because ultimately in one month it will not make sense. I appeal for more recent action on your part. Since the parliamentary procedure does not allow a lot of questions to be asked, I will draw attention to something that you said in your exposé that were distributed to the tour operators who were really most affected, almost stopped working, 34 million and still remain 16 million. The truth is this, Madam Secretary. Last year, even a year and a half ago, we approved 10 million assistance for tour operators to be able to pay off their counterparties and customers, and then another 51 million were approved. BGN, which is actually this 34 million plus 16 million. That's 51 million. BGN, which we here had secured, and they must be spent in the same way. It is not normal in the middle of spending these funds to change the rules. And you, on 15 June 2021, by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 197, significantly aggravated the procedure for receiving these funds by tour operators and tour operators and tour operators, and that is why they have not yet been distributed. We believe that when an aid is being offered and applied, the rules from beginning to end must be the same and it is unacceptable in the middle of the match to change the rules. And in that perhaps you are convinced that you have made a mistake and should as soon as possible clear this mistake. Another question that you have addressed in your Expo is 3 million for the tour guides. For colleagues who are not interested in the topic, I will tell you that they are about 1400 in Bulgaria, i.e. 1400 families. These people from March, since the beginning of the crisis, have not worked, have not received one... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u106	Oh, I'm sorry. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u107	Madam President, Mrs Karayancheva in the previous National Assembly there was no case in which I would not go out and not do this to me. So please, please, don't put me through this stress.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u108	I'll give you a bonus!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u109	These three million, which are promised to the tour guides from your predecessor, Ms. Mariana Nikolova, and looking for a form to help them because they are not legal but individuals, I think it was found, but the way and speed with which these funds are distributed are extremely slow. That is why I told you that you should act more decisively, more responsibly, because, put yourself in the position of these 1400.. 1500 families, whose only profession is theirs, the only craft, and they have not received a penny in the form of remuneration since March, for two years. So the call from our parliamentary group is the Ministry and you as a minister to be more decisive, because this sector before the crisis gave about 12 He is really leading the Bulgarian economy and we need to take care of him so that he can grow and increase the revenues from his activities. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u111	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mrs. Baltova, first of all, I would like to thank you for having responded, being present in the Chamber and answering questions... I forgot my card. I apologize! The answers were satisfactory, with some of the findings I can agree with, but a number of important issues need to be addressed in general. We are currently witnessing an unprecedented process of re-qualification of staff employed in the tourism sector, which are oriented towards other activities. This minimizes the entire industry, even its activities in the period when the crisis caused by the Kovid pandemic will be over, because if we have previously suffered from the problem of emigration of personnel abroad, we are now seeing how many qualified personnel are simply changing the industry in which to develop. This process can only be stopped with timely state support, because when a business is in crisis, it is extremely important that the aid to it be on time. I can compare it with the condition of a severely ill patient who needs an emergency..................... if she does not arrive in time and comes late, then it becomes pointless. In this sense, some of the problems consist in the fact that much of the state support comes late. Many of the companies meet the requirements.. they have applied, they are approved for the assistance, and then there is a very long waiting for these funds to take place. Of course, how much this is up to the Ministry of Tourism. You will decide how to communicate with the Ministry of Finance and with the Ministry of Economy. Again, as has been said earlier, I call for an extended dialogue with industry organisations, because there the problems appear first at the time and need to be discussed. I'm not wasting any more time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u112	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Come in, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I would also like to thank you for your active and expert participation in the discussion. However, as we see for ourselves both the questions and the answers and the problems that remain unresolved in order to have an adequate response to these problems, a regular cabinet is needed and a working parliament is needed. Let's see when we can do it. Of course, it is important to look forward to the processes and to create the necessary conditions, on the one hand, for the survival of the tourist ecosystem, for its recovery to levels at least close to the situation we had before the crisis, to say before 2019. Before the pandemic, however difficult it may seem to be at present and for the medium-term development of the ecosystem itself, including the implementation of the double transition related to digitalisation and the Green Deal, which give many opportunities for the tourist ecosystem itself. Of course, not least by reference, but first of all is the creation and preparation of staff, which are necessary for both the ongoing processes and the active inclusion in these digitalisation processes of the industry itself. It is also necessary to pay attention to the collection of statistical information in which, as I said, there are serious differences. These methods, which use the study itself, which deals with the number of foreign tourists visiting Bulgaria, and the costs they make, are outdated and must be updated so that the accounts with other specific statistics and sets of data can not be overlooked, so that only on the basis of one high quality information can be made, justified decisions, including policy in this sector. It is normal because of the pandemic to change and consumer preferences. We must be prepared and offer an adequate and safe product that will meet these preferences in the future. Opportunities for customization, let us say, of routes benefiting from the potential of individual regions and destinations, as tourism is very important for their development. Digitalization provides opportunities for visualization of the wealth of the individual regions, for interest in specific sites of the historical heritage, cultural landmarks, industrial and other local landmarks, for gathering information and large databases to enable the creation of profiles for the search and supply of this tourist product, according to the good combination of these profiles and accordingly increasing economic efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. And stand up BG! We're coming! Come on in, Mr. Tabakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u115	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister Baltova, realizing how many texts I received in this debate, I ask myself: should I be measured in my speech, because when we talk about tourism, we should always be careful? In each country there are certainly two types of economics and these are agriculture and tourism. And as many colleagues say, foreign tour operators, when you talk about tourism, if you do not know how to advertise it, at least be careful not to harm it. In this order of thought, I listened to the positions of all colleagues from the various parliamentary parties represented. Some of them allowed themselves to criticize you, others gave you direction. What is the essence of the entire debate and perhaps the small criticisms that we have to make are that the tourism industry expected a much stronger position when entering your mandate. I stress that you, in my eyes, are an expert because you are taking this position a second time. I know that you have always sought the balanced dialogue between all non-governmental organizations, as well as the little time you have available to make it possible for this industry to function, but the very fact that the industry outside expected you to be firmer when entering your position, pointing out the problems in the industry, facing the irregularities that have accumulated in the back of time, perhaps underlying expectations. Unfortunately, in the whole debate, we did not hear specific figures, except for the measures that were strongly drawn back in time... what the state can do in practice. Mrs. Angelkova said that they are a continuation of the decisions taken in time back. I don't know if you were impressed that this whole debate, if we are talking about the strategic development of tourism, is going through the real marketing strategy, through more separation of funds from the state? This is the moment, and it was not for nothing that I asked about the update of the budget and budget 2022. To show firmness, if you have this opportunity, or the colleagues who will stand up after you, precisely for the increase of this budget - not only the increase in the budget when it is spoken of as cost, but how it will be allocated. If you have paid attention, the speeches in this House once raised the issue of digitalisation and marketing, once the issue of subsidisation was raised. We raised the issue of subsidising the OUTRs and just when we are talking about a higher cost in the budgeting of the Ministry of Tourism, it must be very clear how the money will be distributed. I really missed mentioning the subsidization of tour operators and tour operators. In practice, this is perhaps the strongest tool when we speak precisely of tour operators and tour operators being highly motivated and able to attract more tourists. I realize that when we talk about mass tourism, about summer, about winter tourism in a very large part of the country, that is exactly the kind of question Mr. Zelenogorski raised, they are just excited about how each of their tourist areas will develop. That is, when we talk about tourism, we are not just talking about hotels and restaurants, tour operators, tour operators and cartoons. We need to make it clear that when we are talking about 12 - 14% of the gross domestic product and as an export product, these are not just the hotels and restaurants that I have listed, but we are talking about the thousands of families that are directly engaged. If we speak from the National Assembly's stands that we really need to recalculate pensions, that we should have more social focus to restore jobs, to subsidise small businesses, let us not forget that it is this sector that gives enormous opportunities to these small companies, even those who work indirectly in the field of tourism. Therefore, I ask you only a few recommendations at the end: exceptional firmness in terms of the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, which I believe was greatly underestimated in the years back; do not really miss the dialogue on the status of national resorts, something which, in the years back from the National Assembly's stands, came from acting deputy prime ministers to the point that tourism has only negative signals abroad and that is precisely for such unresolved problems. I'm really glad the OTP isn't in the background what was in the concept. I heard there's going to be more subsidies in this direction, because to be honest, it's been zero so far. Zero and this in itself became so that it created some stillborn organizations that had to push precisely the tourist regions with their resources. The other thing that has certainly not risen in this House, because you may not have this opportunity, is the revision of the Tourism Act. A very large part of the industry realized that the Tourism Act is already old and, in a large part, when we talk about its revision, we need to make it clear that immediately after that all accompanying regulations must be reviewed. I realize that you are very much expected in the short term, but the debate itself...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u116	The weather, Mr. Tabakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u117	Yes, let me finish, Madam President. The fact that you came to this hall in an active summer season has given us the opportunity to hear the positions of the various political parties. I would be happy to have this Parliament and every next minister work on these points, because they must not be postponed. Madam President, thank you. And thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Tabakov. That concludes today's hearing and this item on the agenda. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR FACTS AND ASSISTANCES ON NON-CONFICIOUS ACTIONS AND INDEPENDENCES OF THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES OF THE TERRITORY OF PROTECTED TERRITORY Importers - Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. You're welcome to present the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "Motives" to the Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities in the territory of the protected territory of the Republic of Moldova in the peninsula of Budzhaka, falling within the territorial scope of the municipality of Sozopol Recently, information came out in the media, according to which on the last day of the government of Ivan Kostov on 23 July 2001, the then Minister of Environment Evdokiya Maneva issued an order that changed the Management Plan of the protected territory The information explained that the peninsula has been a protected area since 1970 by order of the Minister of Forests and Forest Industry to protect fjords and rock formations on an area of 650 acres. A number of activities and all constructions have been banned in the protected area. In 2001, a Management Plan for the Protected Area was developed, which was established by order of the then Minister of Environment and Water Evdokiya Maneva, published in the Official Journal. Its territory is divided into two zones:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now the whole Zone 2 is fully built, and the fjords, which are fully protected and fall into Zone 1, can now enjoy only the owners of the mansions located there, because according to the media, all the detailed planning plans of the "Bujaka" have been approved without trails between them and so people no longer have any access to the sea, as is the requirement of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. According to the publications, after Minister Maneva changed the Management Plan of the protected peninsula since 1970, there was a mass purchase of properties and construction of luxury houses on the peninsula, and for this purpose a special company was created "Kolokita" in which all owners who later built the entire strip. The publications also point out that the "Bujaka" is also a protected area of the Natura 2000 site under the Biodiversity Act under the Birds Directive, but after the mass building there the birds have practically no place to nest. The analysis carried out in 2013 by the Ministry of Environment and Waters on the Management Plan of the Protected Area "Kolockita" and published on the website concluded that, I quote, the intensive development of maritime tourism and the construction of hotels and villa settlements in the area is disrupted the quality and structure of the natural habitats that are sensitive to the construction activities in the adjacent territories, and there is also damage to the coastal rocks when building support walls and digging steps to go down to the sea coast. The analysis also noted that in the protected area there are types of natural habitats threatened at European and national level and that a total of 15 plant species are established, of which three species are included in the Red Data Book of Bulgaria, one in the category................................................................................................. It is noted that the natural nature of the flora, of the vegetation in the protected area is preserved to a very small extent as a result of the built-up areas and the built-up infrastructure in the peninsula of Budzhaka. That is why we propose the following: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities in the territory of the protected territory The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities in the territory of the protected territory of Kolokita. In the peninsula of Bujaka, falling within the territorial scope of the municipality of Sozopol concerning: 1.1. The Commission should examine and establish within the time limit which government, when and why it changes the Management Plan in the protected territory.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1.2. The Commission should establish all the facts and circumstances surrounding the legality of the construction in zone 2 which covers the peninsula of Buzaka and falls within the territorial scope of the municipality of Sozopol and zone 1, which is fully protected territory and covers the fjords and rocks of the protected territory of the peninsula of Buzaka. 2. The Commission shall carry out the necessary actions within three months and submit a report. 3. The Commission shall consist of 12 members, shall be set up on a parietal principle, two MPs from each parliamentary group. 4. He elects a chairman and a vice-president.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u120	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u121	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say on behalf of the Group of Democratic Bulgaria that we, as we have said in the debate on the proposal for the establishment of the Poll Committee for Rossenets, will support with our votes and will broadcast representatives in the Commission for Buzaka, who will work very actively and constructively in its work. Firstly, because if there are any irregularities, particularly related to the Black Sea coast, especially related to the conservation of biodiversity and the natural heritage of our country, we would, of course, like this to be established. Speaking of which, I wonder if you agree with all of you who have imported, pulled and pulled this committee, to create for every natural protected area around which there are irregularities, one committee, or one big one to look at? This is not at all part of some political controversy, because the issue of this heritage, of its state, of the possibilities, of finding some policy, of its gradual recovery perhaps, where this is still possible, is a strategic issue. Let's try to solve it as one. That's our first motive. Our second motive, however, and it is already a political one, is related to the fact that this topic is used as a propaganda event, as a propaganda event, and that in itself is the most normal thing in politics. But a propaganda event that defends the state of Bulgaria, in which we have a facade democracy, behind which there is a structure that is adopted to be called a deep state. By the way, it's a very interesting concept. As far as I know, it has Turkish origins, a Devon Devon was called, you'll correct me if I'm wrong. That seemed very interesting to me. This is the situation in Bulgaria. This situation in Bulgaria is due to the fact that never in Bulgaria the real power was conquered by the structures that held it during the totalitarian regime in order to become and build a fully functioning democracy. I suspect that any one of you in any sense would agree with this finding. There are numerous international findings in this regard. Unfunctioning justice, institutions that operate for one another otherwise, corruption is not really just a matter of stealing, it is not just a matter of possession of one or another funds, but they are a manifestation of this state of facade democracy, behind which we have a deep state structure. In other words, decisions are taken outside the institutions for the benefit of public opinion. This is a major problem and "Democratic Bulgaria" is trying to contribute to its solution. Let me put it this way. Today we witnessed another historical reference to the history of DPS which created democracy in Bulgaria. The DPS has a structural-determining role, a really crucial role, such as the Soviet army, said Mr. Karadayi, but the DPS does have a structural-determining role in the construction of the Bulgarian regime of facade democracy and a deep state behind this facade. This starts from the role of the representatives of State Security before and after the changes that have always been super-presented in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and continues to this day. With the events around the Rosenets, based on numerous journalistic... [[Replyes: not on the subject!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u122	It's not about the subject, Mr. Hristo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u123	On the contrary, allow me to argue why it is on the subject. You think so, but I have a different argument. Thank you. With the events surrounding "Rosenets" we came into one way in conflict with this state of affairs. [[Replyes: "Bujaka", "Bujaka".]] Here, I come to Bujaca. The moment it became clear, I would like to describe the history of this propaganda use of the topic about Buzaka. At the moment when it became clear that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office could no longer turn a blind eye to the Rosenets, it started with the same check............................... without any logic or geographical or personal. It launched a check at the same time for the "Rosenets" and for the "Bujaka". The propaganda resource controlled by the circles around Saraya was immediately included, namely Mr. Peevski, who made these two topics bound in numerous media publications controlled by Mr. Peevski, and of course was used...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u124	Where are these subjects?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u125	I don't know where they are. We're watching them. And there was Mr. Barekov, who was supposed to serve this propaganda smoker. In order to be able to hide the problem with "Rosenets" the problem with "Bujaka" or whatever is there had to be used. We want this committee to do one job and this job, if there are, of course, irregularities, to be established, but also to depose this propaganda operation. And that's what our representatives will be working for. The story of the establishment of this committee is very interesting. There is a difference between voting for a committee when it will be drawn up and serving the propaganda event with your signatures. The DPS obviously do not have the number of MPs to initiate such a commission. They were supposed to be looking for someone to back them up. First with this work was loaded GERB. It was very interesting. [[Replys: First we asked you and you promised us, but another...]] You asked us first and we will, of course, not serve your propaganda event. [[Noise and lines.]] If I may finish, since you expressed your emotions, I'm on the subject, so we promised... [[Reply and applause from DPS.]] Thank you. Since we promised you that we would support creation, not that we would give you signatures, these are different things, to initiate something means to become co-author of the propaganda event. This is different. When GERB submitted this commission without the DPS, it was still with some experience on how to handle such materials, it was in itself interesting. When GERB pulled, and as far as I read in the media, it was because the DPS told them that they no longer needed their signatures, in fact because they were found by Here's the problem, colleagues, no matter how much you come up with fantasies about someone wanting portions, no matter how much you come up with absolutely... [[DPS lines.]] Let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it May I, uh, have the I.N.N. Members react. Don't, so much to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u126	You'll be entitled to lines. Then there are speeches. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u127	As much as you take out of the context any phrases, spoken or unspoken, from conversations that had to be held in a state of some fellowship, you cannot hide a fact about what broke our communication was the topic of the construction of the management. The theme of how you, in all your chaotic actions, never gave up the concept of a minority government with 65 people to mask the floating majorities. Floating majorities in Bulgaria have always been a recipe for corruption and abuse, always, always. Especially when you're doing it with 65 people and when in the process of this dispute between us, you were passing passes with the DPS. [[Radio and lines from IHN.]] Of course it's us. [[Radio, DPS lines: "Bujaka", "Bujaka".]] Like this one, because the example is ahead of us. Of course this has become a very serious red flag for us. That's the problem. You do not wish to comment on this problem. You attack personally, you make up stories, but you don't want to talk about this topic, about the construction of the cabinet you proposed. It's a matter of principle. An extremely important political issue. That's a very uncomfortable question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u128	Mr. Ivanov, you're getting off topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u129	"Bujaka" is a wonderful illustration of this problem. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For a line? Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u131	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, may I turn to Christo? You know my attitude towards your group and towards you has always been professional and has always been positive. But now I want to tell you that the problem with Buzaka is not the problem of the Democratic Bulgaria. He's your problem with the DPS. There is such a people. There is also the support of the Committee for the Rosenets, where you landed in an extremely representative way, supports and if there has been abuse of the Bujaka. There is such a people....is diametrically opposed to all abuses, Mr. Ivanov. Why should I sign your Commission and not sign the Commission for verification of the person who manages your decisions? Because whoever is in charge of your decisions... is now quite clear to us. [[Applause from IHN]] During all negotiations with the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, I have been extremely professional in the subject of Justice. You, Mr. Ivanov, have taken the liberty of saying that we do not want to replace the Attorney General. You have allowed yourself to say that we do not want the closure of specialized courts and the prosecution. I personally, as chair of the Legal Commission, without public debate and despite the criticisms of the DPS, took the liberty of closing these bodies at first reading in the Commission and as a curtsy to you, which you definitely did not deserve. [[Applause from IHN.]] At the moment it is clear that you are trying to assign us to the DPS in order to gain political benefit. That's not gonna happen! In the next parliament you lost a worthy partner in our face and will remain isolated. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. A line? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivanov! We have just received recognition that courts in Bulgaria are being closed in service of Mr. Ivanov and his formation. [[Applause from DPS.]] That confession just came in. This is the deep country, Mr. Ivanov. To this deep country! Otherwise you're right about a few things and I'll agree with you. We don't have enough signatures. Firstly, we have brought to you because you have declared: To go out and say: there is, there is no violation, the law is respected, it is not, a sanction is tolerated. But you've spoken a big lugoria here and a lot of terms. They are not just words, notice: a deep state.... facade democracy................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They're right there. That's where they belong! There's the hypocrisy, the political one you'll find. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by DPS.]] You answered all the questions, Mr. Ivanov. And no, anti-DPS rhetoric won't work this time, Mr. Ivanov. The political hypocrisy and in this committee for the Rosenetz, which we have done, and now we have done, is yet another, how can I say, another film in which you are bringing not just political parties, we have nothing to share with you, but obviously you cannot divide anything else from whether it is in justice, whether it is the deep state, or to destroy facade democracy, and to be dependent on this media monopolist, or there, as you call it, a circle of oligarchic, you will add that the multiples are many. Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u134	Thank you. Third line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Ivanov? No. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ivanov, political hypocrisy was two weeks ago when you stood right here on this stand, and now, and you said you would support this proposal to establish a Temporary Commission which will establish all the facts and circumstances surrounding the actions and omissions of the competent authorities in Bhudzhaka. The next moment, when I made the proposal available to you on behalf of the parliamentary group, you asked for it, you met it, with a high probability you copied it or photographed it, sent it to your employer, and from there you received orders not to sign this proposal. [[noise, lines and cheers from DB: "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!"]] And as a matter of fact, every other parliamentary party represented in the 46th Parliament has been properly approached, saying in advance whether they will support and sign the draft decision before they get acquainted with it. You are the only one who has shown and proved once again your incorrectness and proved that you are part of and are the product of an oligarchic-media NGO that dictates your agenda, and your agenda is dictated by Buzaka. [[Noise and laughter from DB.]] That is exactly what you have proved with this action. [[Applause from DPS.]] And as for what you are trying to insinuate to the people that there is a connection between DPS and GERB, I recommend that you look at yourself because there are no former ministers in the parliamentary group of DPS who have saluted Boyko Borisov. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ali. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u137	The fact is, I met before I signed or didn't sign, to make a decision. I apologize for that, that's what we do. We also wanted to get acquainted with what my colleagues at the ICN offered before we voted for it. Perhaps this is the non-discrimination in the traditions of Bulgarian parliamentaryism under the conditions of a controlled backstage state in which, when the DPS gives something, you sign without reading. Maybe so. [[Applause from DB.]] So much for what was said here. Now, Mr. Radostin, if we could just talk like this. [[Noise and laughter from DB.]] I see you're very hard to get into the DSS's support points, but this thing is science. This thing has been developed, by the way, there are two documents, very remarkable "DPS" is filmed after the European elections with Peevski's editions. Mr. Karadayi had such a remarkable picture, then is photographed with people with T-shirts with Peevski. Okay. So these publications are a doctrine that has been developed for many years, and after you have decided to become its..., a platform to be the first one to sign for the creation of this propaganda tool, because this is what you are serving the propaganda of the DPS; secondly, recycling all this cloudy stream of lies, I have brought you some books that have been distributed to us. You know, you're not there. [[Applause from DB.]] You're not in these books. I don't know why. I don't know why.! These books have been distributed here, there are also in English, they have been distributed in the European Parliament, Peevski has invested millions in this. I want to say one thing to you: You lost a partner, you lost a partner because you don't want to look the truth in the eye! You can't make a minority government and rely on floating majorities. You can't! And claim you're fighting this thing. It's not working! Because it's coming in. And that's why I brought these books to you to study them well, and indeed, when you will attack us with their props, to use what is called from the source. Good luck to you! [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u138	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For a statement? Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u139	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I'm going to shut up sometime, maybe it won't be today. Firstly, I would like to express my surprise that this Parliament is becoming more and more like an ugly show, a circus, speaking first names and so on. Secondly, I would like to express my outrage of a fact that there is no way that justice after the fall of GERB and Boyko Borisov could be of service to someone. There's no way. This evil must not happen. That's the reason why we fought and stood here. Justice cannot be in anyone's interest, it was him and Mr. Hristo Ivanov. No! Justice is in everyone's best interest. This is the reason why, despite my amazement that it is about Ivan Kostov's time, or at least then the problem with Bhudzhaka-kun has started, we will support the Commission for Buzaka-kun, because there is one single fact for which we will support it, it is called the rule of law. Which means a single, uniform and accurate application of the law to everyone. Oligarsi, find the problem, eat it with the rags! Give them to Geshev if he's still the Attorney General. I look forward to seeing this result, really looking forward to it. And you should be able to do it. So we will support the Commission. We will not just vote on it, we will send people and they will work on this committee. And if the Commission finds any violations, we'd be delighted. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u140	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The decision to set up this committee is, of course, from the previous parliament. It's not self-inflicted. Mr. Ivanov here guessed what the purpose of this committee is to show the roots of the deep state, to show the roots of the backstage because they are neither from 2009, nor from 2007, nor from 2012, nor from 2017. They are from 1997 that even a little before that, when Mr. Soros' structures were made by Mr. Lukanov. [[Noise, lines, cheers by DB:.........................................]] And when we talk about the deep state, the whole of Europe says that these are structures of the deep state, but not of the Bulgarian deep state. And if you don't want to say that, I'll tell you without even a shred of concern from this tribune. Because, among other things, I have a very good memory. And I have no memory of what they have told me, and I have a memory as an eyewitness, as a participant, and I know very well why one part of the UDF was Satanized by another part of the UDF, by the embryo of the deep state, by Ivo Prokopiev, the circle And then one of the decisions, the last decisions of Evdokia Maneva, is to take out Buzaka from the protected territories and release it to the new oligarchs. And there is no Peevski, and Tsonev is gone, for your greatest surprise, and Dogan is gone, can you imagine? But there are other ministers from the UDF, and of course Prokopiev is there, where without him? How is it that a backstage and a deep country without it? And because you're talking about facade democracy, we've already had the opportunity, through our president from this tribune, and in the media, to remind you that facade democracy is when you don't participate in elections, that is, you don't participate in the democratic process, you don't go with your face in front of the voter to like you or not like you, as people say, to give you a snout, because you don't do your job properly, or to praise you, and when you stand back and create GMOs, political structures that you have testified about. There are evidences in the Bulgarian periodical stamp on how the structures are created, how Prokopiev says: I will participate with the resource, I will participate with the structures I have, I will participate, but I will not enter the policy, you will enter the policy, how will it be financed and so on. And this is not the first, nor the last, this may be the last case in which he participates. But this GMOs product that they produce all the time started right then with the splitting of the CDS of good ones, the ones dressed in white, and that's what I'm telling you as a person who was involved in this process and is one of the victims. In addition, I have had conversations with these very people that I am talking about, and they have admitted it to me in my eyes: Yes, it was, we are authors of the concept of the SDS in white and the other part of the corrupt part. And who? Privatization participants. Don't I know how they were involved in privatization? And you will tell me that they so, the honest privates who were concerned, go from media to media and the leaders look at them as deities, and don't ask them any questions, and they tell them how they are concerned about the business climate, about democracy. Are you serious? Who's gonna believe it? Perhaps you, because I accept that you are sincere and believe in this mantra. But the rest of us don't believe because we know them well and we see what they're doing now. And when you said, "Bujaka," to tell you that your current behaviour towards the cabinet was also born there. Last Saturday on a show I said now Ivan Krastev, and Prokopiev, and another person are of the "Budzhaka" and there are reasoning on the topic, and there is a fictional mantra. And I warned you from the I.N. from this tribune that now you will be the victim of these. I warned you before you were a victim. [[Noise and lines from IHN.]] Yeah, that you'd be a victim. Because there was born the mantra that you were something with us and started running next week. But that's another topic. And one more thing from your statement about the props. The DPS supports. Mr. Ivanov, I've been blabbering them since before Peevski came into the world since before I was a member of the DPS. I am talking about this group of Mr. Kostov, alive and well to be, I have been talking to him since 1998 that if he is led by the mind of this group, which was then much bigger and included the Speaker of Parliament, God forgive him, and Kolyo Nikolov, and another bunch of people, the UDF will be finished. That's what happened. So I've been talking to them myself for 25 years. I don't know what kind of protections you're talking about here, but Prokopiev's bases to the honest media that were free, we saw them in some leaked e-mails where he ordered journalists in 2013 who to see, from whom to take an interview. He knows what to tell you there. They'll also tell you where to go, which media, which host, who knew what to ask them. I've never seen anything like it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u142	Mr. Tsonev, according to Bhujaka!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u143	By Bhujaka. Since you have endured, Madam President, Hristo Ivanov, on the deep state, on facade democracy and on the bases, I, on the Buzaka, speak with his terminology and give explanations to the Members of the National Assembly, and to those who look and want to know, and for one reason or another they are not aware, we will fight against the model of the backstage, called Ivo Prokopiev and the circle of Kapital, which we outlined from this tribune last time, and which is repeatedly outlined in the media. And you can't give any sense to the DPS, what a contribution the DPS has made to democracy, at least because the DPS sacrificed in the battle with the totalitarian state, and your parents were leaders in this totalitarian state. [[Applause and screams from DPS: "Bravo! "]] And a little shame, yes, children are not responsible for the actions of their parents, but if they do not do as they do, if they do not enter their shoes and their brains. Because here I don't want to point out now, but you know there are at least 10 people who are of prominent communist families, and now you are teaching us democracy, teaching us anticommunism, lustration, even teaching us. I'm sorry, but this is the ultimate insolence! [[Noise and lines from DB. Claps by DPS: "Bravo! "]] And to teach you the DPS what contribution it made to democracy when Mr. Dogan has a gold sign, a gold medal from the Congress of the United States, notice for what, for his contribution, for his contribution to our NATO membership and for Bulgaria's peaceful transition. [[beeping and chirping]] [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u144	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u145	Do you understand? [[Noise and lines from DB. Claps by DPS.]] I didn't scream when Hristo Ivanov spoke, and you yell when I speak. I know I'm not comfortable with you, but I will continue to be uncomfortable with you, and I will continue to be a thorn in your heels every time. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u146	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u147	Mr. Tsonev, if you're fighting against some behind-the-scenes thing, that's great! Fight! We, who are called, will vote for this committee. Let's fight backstage, but let me remind you of a few things. First of all, victims didn't give DPS, sorry! The DPS gave specific Bulgarian citizens, patriots, whom we very much respect, who were subjected to... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] [[DSS and DSS lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u148	Quiet, please! A line regarding Mr. Tsonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u149	... Look, I... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u150	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u151	...can I have the opportunity to express my enormous respect for the people who went out and protested the revival regime? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] DPS was created when? 1990, right, or 1991? [[Noise and lines.]] So let's fix this chronology. As far as parents are concerned, Mr. Tsonev, it wouldn't hurt to get your memory and your facts back together. As far as parents are concerned! You know, but you're not talking right. [[DPS lines.]] No, no, because, right? And from then on, however, the fact is that Mr. Peevski appeared later, he was just a tool, there is no doubt about it. [[Applause from DB.]] There's no doubt about it! However, this instrument, because of it, we paid a huge price because Bulgaria is currently subject to monstrous sanctions. One of them is an intervention in Bulgarian judicial sovereignty, by name Peevski is mentioned in them. It's a roll call! We're paying a monstrous price as a society for this thing. So let's fight backstage, but for a reason, okay?! [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Tsoneva, come in. Then Mr. Stanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u153	Madam President, honourable Members! I wonder: is there such a commission? Is there such a commission in this National Assembly that can gather as much support and raise degrees as this Commission? Yeah, there's a commission like this, and 158 people at least put their signatures in to import it and export it. This is the commission for the Buzaka. And there is such a people and GERB and DPS make a decent majority of 157 people who want what? They want to fake reality... [[Noise and lines from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] What do they want? To have two seemingly mirrored committees. The commission for the Bhujaca Committee should be the Mirror Sarai Committee of the Rosenets. That is why Hristo Ivanov pointed out that this is in essence a propaganda event. And there was one, no, there is a very, very popular song: [[noise and lines]] When you create the idea that these are the same themes, with the same weight, and they're almost mirrored, and you're talking about that behind one and the other standing the same way...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u154	Time, Mrs. Tsoneva!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u155	...determined... Please, let me finish. ...determined people. No, that's not true! And with the merger of this committee, there is such a people, and the DPS has actually proved that behind your leader's sofa is seen Dogan with the roses. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Mr. Stanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u157	Honourable Madam President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly from all groups! Once again, we see strange moods in this Bulgarian Parliament too many emotions and too many smiles. Let us live in the Bulgarian Parliament and set up this committee. We all seem to think there's something to be investigated by her, not to play some kind of conspiracy theory movie. By the way, a wonderful movie with Julia Roberts and Mel Gibson, except neither are you Julia Roberts, although you have sympathies for genderism, nor are you Mel Gibson, colleagues from the DPS! [[Laughter and applause from DPS and IHN]] Let's stop living in conspiracy theories and start this committee and not exchange constant attacks for media, for oligarchs, who's standing behind who, how long, and so on? [[Applause from IHN.]] By the way, Mr. Tsonev, this film has been somewhere since 1990 and some year. Mr. Tsonev looks like Mel Gibson, fact! [[Laughter and applause from IHN.]] I conclude with the following thing: do not do there is such a people hostage of your disputes. We want the establishment of this committee in the name of its objectivity and what it will investigate. Because there is such a people today we came up with a wise Bulgarian proverb: "When two donkeys measure the Bujacs, don't come between them!" [[Laughter and applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u158	Thank you, Mr. Stanev. Mr. Tsonev for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u159	Thank you, Madam President. I wish I could tell you that it was you who stood up, your party that stood up and warned you about it. But this isn't about any measure, it's about searching for the roots of the deep state. Since many want our colleagues on the right to look for these roots, as they say they are the source of the troubles of Bulgaria, I agree with them. That's why we're measuring the Bujacs. [[Laughter]] Do you understand what reason? Because all the things I've listed, Mr. Ivanov, have been about them..... and subversives, and deep states, and media, and behind-the-scenes and everything. You see now in the media what a full-bodied cordon there are of analysts who defend their thesis? Okay, you know what they have in common? And their fathers are from CDC Dinov, Meinov and so on, not to mention them, Krastev... Let's watch things with the real glasses, not the pink ones. That's why it's important. If we really want to reform our country, if we really want to get rid of any addictions, if we want to do what people are sending us here to do, let's see what's at stake here. Because I didn't hear any prime minister say that Karadayi gave him five ministers, but Borisov said that Prokopiev gave it to him!? [[Noise and lines.]] And he's not a liar at all, I'll tell you something else. [[(Laughter at IBGNI. A line from the National Representative Nikolai Hadzhigenov: Once Borisov has told the truth! Thank you.]] And I'll tell you something else: your office would never have passed, my colleagues from the I.N.N. I don't sympathize with you because you assaulted the DPS for no reason, but can I tell you why? Because this was the first draft cabinet since 1997, in which the cohort of Prokopiev and the circle of "Capital" did not have a single draft minister. How do you think they're gonna support you in this kind of office? How do you imagine that? [[Reply from the National Representative Tatiana Doncheva: "Leave it, Dancho, this topic! "]] Yeah, to tell you the truth...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u160	Please, Mrs. Doncheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u161	...in all the offices there are, and we listed them by name. Do you want me to start from Kostov's office, pass through Saxkkoburgatski 1, through Stanishev and tell you one by one who the ministers are? So this topic will be developed from here on because it is important for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u162	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Hamid, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is to extend the plenary until this item is exhausted from the agenda and to vote on the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u164	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Voting mode. Vote 190 MPs: 182 against 4, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u165	Madam President, honourable Members! The conversation went too far and too far from the subject. I appreciate as an extraordinary test that the leadership of the National Assembly has not repeatedly interrupted those who strayed on the subject. Honourable Members, on this issue and on this subject do not expect from us a political retrospective of the last 30 years. Don't expect from us! We can't, we can't, and we won't take any attitude whose oligarch is stronger, or whose media circle is more influential, and what penetration there is in the deep country. We have no way of getting involved in this right now. Don't expect us to talk about your families, your families, your fathers, your mothers, your children, let alone involve actresses and actors from Hollywood's box office in this job. With one sentence, when these two are measured, we cannot take any part in this matter. I say this because the question is too serious in two aspects. The first aspect is this: if we are united that when a serious public issue arises, it must be resolved in this House, and if we are to restore parliamentaryism as a tradition and a way of solving matters, it is a really serious matter and this committee must exist. The second question is that the consequences of not solving these issues are so serious and so significant that if we constantly cover these issues with one cover of minority, we will make even more trouble. In practice, such a protected zone does not exist in particular "Kolokita" in the peninsula "Buzaka" as a result of a 20-year history in which a number of steps have been taken by those who have managed. I would like to draw your attention to the following: why is this issue serious? Indeed, in another period, in another country in the 1970s by Order No 1754 of 16 June 1970, this area was declared protected but protected that absolutely nothing could be done on it. Let this committee, which we will set up, as we expect you to expect from us, I have said what not to expect from us, perseverance, predictability, consistency. We have already made a statement that we will support this committee, as we recognise there is also a public problem with regard to the case. We also support the establishment of a committee there. So, let's see within this committee why a week, ten days before the final of a government that runs from 1997 to 2001, literally a week after the parliamentary elections have already been won, after the party that has won has 120 people, that is, they are in one majority, then the minister will see who he is, hear different names, issue a well-established Management Plan of the protected zone, which divides into two zones 1 and 2, you see, zone 2 is the so-called buffer zone and there can be construction there. Very quickly after that, a company is created, based on the restored agricultural land that has been purchased very quickly, as an investor company is beginning to enter this territory. Let us not read only from the newspapers what are the known names that are present as property, of ministers, of public figures inside the protected area............................... Let's not read it in the papers, let's establish it properly in this committee. Last but not least, 2006, 2013 is the years in which the Management Plan has been amended with regard to this protected zone. Let us examine all these key dates so that we can finally get legitimate through the National Assembly to the conclusion: in what we are guilty or innocent; in what we have done and what we have not done; what is the reason for this condition this territory and probably many more other protected territories in Bulgaria, which is already rich enough? Once again, we support this committee. We cannot, we do not wish, we do not want, and there is no material basis to enter into such debates that we are listening to here, and I hope that the Commission will give results on a rapid basis to show us how from now on, if we want to do something else like a country, we can all do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u166	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u167	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, my reply is to you, firstly, because this is my request to all MPs when they are making some political puns from the parliamentary tribune, let us not multiply them. Let us maintain the level of the Bulgarian Parliament. It's low enough as it is to allow ourselves from the stands to replicate and multiply the pun that was just spoken. But I want to say one more thing. Dear Mr. Tsonev...... [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] You're systematically repeating the same props...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u168	The line must be to Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u169	...directed to the Bulgarian NGOs, to the free [[DSS and DSS lines]] , to the free media. That doesn't do you any honor, at least because you have...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u170	Mr. Slavov, your line is to Mr. Kostadinov, not to Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u171	...President of the European Liberal Party and this attitude is not correct, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u172	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] For a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u173	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u174	Let's just finish the procedure. Second line? I can't see. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, have you ever thought that a person who is well educated, a lecturer in Constitutional Law would not have read the Rules and instead of you will address Mr. Tsonev with a line? But did you expect the President of the National Assembly not to interrupt it when he deliberately admitted this violation, because I am sure that this is not out of ignorance?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u176	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I paid attention to him twice, and he cut off his line. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u177	Dear Mr. Slavov, if you think that our refusal to deal with what your parliamentary group and some of the other colleagues have been dealing with so far, i.e. with political retrospect, if you think that the importance of this topic and we express support for this committee is multiplying the political discord, I am inclined to offer you my apologies, but I will not do it because it is not. We just said, people, let's get back to the point! Yes, we have stated that we support and support this committee, and let us objectively resolve it. So I'd love to apologize from this tribune, but I don't see the point. With regard to Hamid's questions. On the first question, yes, I have not imagined and I do not think that my colleague Slavov can make such a mistake, because I will tell you that even before he becomes a MP, I follow as a constitutionalist his positions and I think he is a significant expert and I can only congratulate him. As for the second question, just remind me to answer it. [[(Reply: "No!" (Reply: "No!")]] I won't. With all due respect, this is my backdrop of what I've heard so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u178	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Tsonev, in the manner of conduct. [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] Mr. Yordanov, are you speaking? [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] But there have been claims before you many others. When the time comes. There's Mr. Chakarov, Mr. Babikan, Naydenov, and then it's you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u179	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, because if we follow the rules and procedures, we will not have to violate it again and again. If you had made a note to Mr. Hristo Ivanov not to develop retrospective ones on the occasion of Mr. Buzaka, arguing that this was the way he argued, I would not have done this, and my colleagues would not have made these comments. And if you hadn't let Mr. Slavov make a line, not to Mr. Kostadinov, but to me, I wouldn't have to respond in the form of a procedure because I have no other option. After he gives me a line, without having that right, obviously I will answer him in another procedure and tell him that only and especially that we are liberals, and that we are really, not only because the Chairman of ALDE is Mr. Ilhan Kuchuk, but to tell you: Chairman of the Youth Society of European Liberals LYMEC is called Antoaneta Asenova and is also from DPS. [[Applause from DPS.]] The two large liberal structures are presidents of Bulgarian citizens of the DPS, and this is an occasion for pride from you too. And for the free media, I've already quoted you to these media where they were given instructions on what to write, with whom and how. Are those free media? And one more question to ask you. After Mr. Peevski sold the three media that he had: why from 111st, we went to 113th place on media freedom? He's not here, is he? Why?! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u180	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u181	I apologize for breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u182	I made a remark several times to Mr. Hristo Ivanov when he turned aside and began to talk about the Rosenets. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u183	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say at the very beginning why we are putting forward a proposal for this committee. We are importing because at the 44th National Assembly we brought a question to the Minister of Environment and Water about the status of the Buzaka. We received no response from this tribune by the Minister of Environment and Water. My colleagues asked that question. Today, it is by no means an answer to the creation of the Commission for the "Rosenets" in view of the fact that you are accusing us that this was a propaganda act. On the contrary, propaganda is what was landed in "Rosenets" and a subsequent commission. I'm enumerating factology: First, we have facts about serious damage to the protected territory............................................................................................................................. from 2001 to today.......................................................................................................................... Secondly, because the issue has great social significance. And thirdly, because it is necessary to approach all controversial cases on a principled basis with the same standard. We are ready for all proposals where there are problems with the protection of nature and public interest is violated, to support and assist the truth to come to light. Colleagues in the motives indicated the division of the first, second zone. The second zone has been completely built so far. Until the change of the Management Plan, this was not the case. It is important to know today that the peninsula is, I stress, destroyed protected territory. Destroyed protected territory! There's no protection regime on the Rosenets. There is access to the beach in Rosenets. There is no access to the Bujaca because, in violation of the Code of Civil Works on the Black Sea Coast, all this is humiliation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u184	Mr. Chakarov, limit yourself only to the Bhujaka.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u185	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] According to media publications among the owners of luxury properties, I quote data from the Commercial Register are: Ivo Prokopiev, his former partner Philip Harmandzhiev, journalist from the newspaper "Kapital" Yovo Nikolov, a number of ministers from the cabinet Kostov and NDSV. [[Voices from DPS: "Oooh! "]] In the analyses carried out, the colleagues pointed out here in the reasons that the objectives of the protection in the protected territory are no longer present. This has been found in the conclusions of the Ministry of Environment and Water in 2013. In view of this, all these facts, in our view, require verification of this: What reasons has the Management Plan of the protected territory been changed by the Minister of Environment and Water Evdokiya Maneva? Secondly, have damage been done to the protected area with the permission to stay in zone 2? What and who is responsible for this? Is it true that directly on the rocks in zone 1 are the properties of journalists from the newspaper With whom are they consistent, is there a coordination? Who is the subject of authority who is responsible for this? Is it true that the detailed planning plans of the Buzaka were approved without trails between them, as I have already pointed out? Is it found by the competent institutions RIEW and the Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region (Black Sea Region) pouring fecal waters from the house of Ivo Prokopiev directly along the rocky path leading to the bay and the beach? [[Noise and lines.]] Didn't the property of Buzaka get acquired in a privileged way? The report was purchased for 69 BGN. not square meters, per decare. [[Voices from DPS: "Oooh! "]] Is it true to the media of the former MP from Ekovoglasnosto "Emil Georgiev" that the concrete staircase of the house of Prokopiev is dug directly into the sea and the fence of the property is illegal and who is responsible for this? Is the media information true that the construction of the Colokita is being investigated, which coincides with the mandate of a minister of justice, who subsequently withdraws? Have any action been taken to address irregularities detected in the investigation ordered by the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, carried out by the Minister of Regional Development and the Minister of Tourism, the Minister of Environment and Water, the Minister of Transport and the Head of DNCK on the property of Ivo Prokopiev? Is there an action or omission of specific institutions, or did it cause irreversible damage to the protected territory of the "Colokita" if they are identified, are they being held responsible? Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. [[The National Representative Arman Babikan wants the floor.]] For a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u187	I'm taking advantage of a line, and I'm going to give up my speech on this. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u188	I just hope you're in line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u189	Wasn't the negotiator the Minister of Ecology? [[DPS lines.]] I think so! And why didn't he defend Bujaca then? Or did some part of the deep country or shallow bay stop it? [[Laughter]] Because you've been measuring your deep states all day in shallow bays. I don't know what else you're measuring, but a huge part of the oligarchy and the mafia, along with some services, are dying of laughter by listening to your countries. They're laughing so hard, they're having fun! Don't look for these deep states in these shallow coves with some cottages. You know they're somewhere else, on some long pipes, in some big gorges up on the Danube? If I don't go any further, that's not the conversation. So listening to everyone in this room is willing to vote on this committee. Well, let's vote on it. Don't measure your deep states! My oligarch is better than your oligarch, that's not the conversation. And I see you're having this conversation. Explain to me: did the deep state of Ivo Prokopiev prevent you from stopping the destruction of Bhujaka? Maybe, I guess, I don't know. [[Reply from DPS: "He has already been ruined. "]] Something stopped you?! There may be two or three people in this room who've seen Soros live, I'm one of them, and you didn't do anything to me, and I didn't get a villa, I didn't get one, and I didn't get a bay, and the media didn't get one. [[Laughter and lines]] What misery, what misery! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I didn't become a banker either, so it's not that toxic. Because behind every Soros, there might be some other idea. Behind every bay...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u190	The weather, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u191	...maybe there's another depth to it. Let's not have this stupid conversation...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u192	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u193	...and vote on the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u194	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u195	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Babikan, thank you for your question. A moment ago, I neglected to mention that there was a yes, issued my order as Minister of Environment and Water as early as the beginning of the mandate 2006, when we received signals, we reacted to the entire team of the Ministry and I, with that order, in order to limit the harmful effects which had already been launched on the Bujaka with the relevant permits and in view of the legal situation in which we were present, a order was issued to reduce the density, the levelliness and removal of all violations that had already been committed there. So, I stand behind what I have done, behind my signature, not only for "Bujaka" and for all other protected areas and areas and for the protection of our wonderful nature and biodiversity in Bulgaria. Under my leadership has been created the Natura 2000 and Bulgaria has wonderful biodiversity and we are together with Spain and Greece Bulgaria is one of the richest countries in terms of biodiversity. Then we had 34, and even now it has increased... and we must make every effort to protect this wonderful biodiversity for both us and for the current generation and for future generations in Bulgaria. So I stand behind my signatures, and in this case I believe that I have reacted extremely adequately. Let everything be checked if I have to, I'd like to hear if there are any notes. I do not expect any comments, on the contrary, what has been done has been entirely adequate in the context of what I have already said to preserve our nature. Unfortunately, everything has already been destroyed there, as I said just now. The MOEW is pronounced that there is no longer anything to protect there.. Via Pontica, the wonderful fjords, the rocks, Zone One, all of this is largely destroyed. And most importantly, there's no access he wants. Why don't coworkers go to one place, and somewhere else where there's no access, they don't go? Why is there a double arsin? I welcome you for having just expressed your opinion that there must be rule of law and the law to be for all of us, without any exceptions. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Babikan, you've given up your speech. Mr. Naydenov? And you're giving up. Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u197	Honourable Members, Madam President! First of all, thank you, Mr. Babikan. There is such a people, of course, that we will support this committee in the way that we have also supported the Commission for the Rosenets. It's simple, clear and logical. In addition, we will support every single committee, which I hope, the four of us in this House, offer for any other perversion with the Bulgarian nature, whether on the sea or in the mountain. We will support any such committee so as not to abuse nature. Mr. Hristo Ivanov, of course, took the liberty of hypocritical for the nth time. It's just that in this parliament, I'm personally sick of hypocrisy and I'm going to explain why. [[single applause from IHN]] In the period of our peace negotiations, we informed you that we would support it, we asked you if there was a problem, you said no problem. In the negotiations that we then conducted, hypocrisy continued. Mr. Hristo Ivanov said in our parliamentary room in front of five people that he should approve any candidate for a prime minister we propose, the members of the Council of Ministers and any future appointment to control bodies, otherwise we lose our support. If this isn't a job, I'm a tall basketball player three meters. [[Replys and applause from the DPS. Applause by IHN.]] Mrs. Maya Manolova told me and Victoria the exact lines: "Promise something to Hristo Ivanov and then do not perform it! " [[Laughter and applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u198	Mr. Yordanov, according to Bhujaka!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u199	They spoke the same way. [[Laughter at GERB.]] I'm saying I'd go to a lie detector to prove those words that I just said what those two hypocrites in this parliament said. [[Laughter at GERB.]] I just want to say that I understand that DPS and Democratic Bulgaria are really measuring their oligarchs. To get into their tone, although we don't have oligarchs, but we do have a leader who's a TV host and it's enough, how can I say famous, he doesn't have a house of Rossenets, there isn't a house of Bujaca on the rocks above, I'm sorry. And one more thing, for us from "There is such a people" whether we will replace Dogan and Delyan Peevski with Ivo Prokopiev is equally nasty. Thank you. Applause by IHN.)
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u200	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines in the hall. Replica from DPS: "We will approve ministers, huh? "]] Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u201	Well, yeah, you want our votes. I'm sorry, they're exactly half yours, but they're very valuable to us because they're people who voted for us. And, yes, I stand by my words that if you want to vote for a government broadcast by you, it is appropriate to coordinate the people you propose before that. This does not mean that we should have a veto on this and, I specifically told you in this conversation. If you're being honest, and if you're going to a lie detector, it's not bad to say that, it's not bad to say that. I told you that these decisions are key in terms of the ability to vote on trust. The solutions for people and, I have said this publicly, including from this tribune, are ab-so-lutely key, so that we can trust that one or another policy can be implemented, especially if this policy will be linked to a confrontation with the mafia and the deep state. I'm behind this, Mr. Yordanov, I'm behind this! If you want our votes, we should have a normal conversation before then about the people who will implement these policies and from what you say, by the way, it follows that we didn't offer you people, we didn't ask for shares, we didn't want portions and don't lie about it. [[Noise and lines from DB: "Bravo! "]] Yes, we have wanted to know who we are voting for in public, I have repeatedly said: we will not vote for cats in a sack, we will not vote for people who have no biographies, we will not vote for people who are the best we can say that we know nothing about them. For anonymous people who may be hiding a lot of good qualities, I assume that... By the way, my mother called to scold me that I didn't admit that there were nice people I didn't know and stressed, for example, that she had a very good impression of the Minister for Roma Affairs and I promised her that I would say this thing, yes. But there are also other people who are there who raise a lot of questions that you didn't answer. So, yeah, when you want our votes, we want to know who we're gonna give it to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u202	The weather, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u203	...trust. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u204	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. [[National Representative Dimitar Delchev wants the floor.]] A line? Here you go, Mr. Delchev. [[The National Representative Maya Manolova enters the Chamber. Noise, lines and applause. Communicating: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u205	Mr. Yordanov, it is hypocrisy to negotiate with bad will. It is hypocritical to claim that you are looking for partners and at the same time to drop decisions through the TV, to lead Facebook democracy and to answer not to your partners, but to answer to someone else there on the phone, I do not know who is behind you?! You have not given clear guarantees that the Falcon will not be behind this government and we have seen this because you have not signed a single document with your signature and with your responsibility to ensure that policies are implemented in the direction of judicial reform, in the direction of pension reform, in the direction of raising pensions, giving money for business. [[ITN lines and lines]] You didn't do any of that! That is, this is the hypocrisy of claiming that you are looking for partners, while at the same time your partners are somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u206	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Another line? Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u207	I thank Hristo Ivanov for admitting that he tried to do it, because the continuation of the line was on my question: wait now, are you really telling me, if someone didn't like you, you didn't like it, and you didn't approve it, you would withdraw your support, he said: "Yes maybe not to everyone, but yes, we will. That's not a hand twist, dudes! It's a normal stunt. [[Thinks from DB: That's how it's done!]] Okay. Is that how it's done? By doing so, that is why we do not need such a partner and please do not call us at talks, you have here GERB, DPS, BSP. As for Falcon, colleagues from IBGNI, please, anyone who claims that we have something to do with DPS is nice to go to a psychiatrist, maybe really...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u208	Mr. Yordanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u209	...or at least get one piece of evidence out, and I'd be happy if you could find it. What is it, Mr. Yordanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u210	No qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u211	After all, a small coalition of IBGNI is being formed, DB, you can now make an office, if possible. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u212	Thank you. Mrs. Manolova for a personal explanation? Here you go. [[The National Representative Maya Manolova is going to the stands. Noise, lines, partial applause. Communicating: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u213	Madam President, honourable Members! That is why I have insisted that the negotiations be conducted publicly in front of the media, not in the cooches and in the chambers of parliament, as is the manner and approach of the gentlemen of the "There is such a people." Because if you were in front of the media, if it were public, it would be clear who said what and what they insisted on. Otherwise, I can talk about conversations, and if I wanted to get down to your level, I would say here from this tribune in what way Mr. Trifonov convinced me not to run for mayor of Sofia and against what. I could have done it, but I don't. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]] I could have done it, but I don't! However, I went to the elections in Sofia against GERB, against the model of eagles. And you turned on TV on November 4th one day after the second round of elections, and you can explain why. And as for the eagles and the Falcon, it was seen as the Falcon defending his eagles and how they applauded him. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u215	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u216	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u217	Madam President, in the manner of conduct. Several people have made a remark to you that you have not stopped me from drifting away from the topic of "Bujaka." The fact is that you made a remark to me, and I didn't comply with what you told me, so I want to protect you in the manner of conduct. I would also like to tell Mr. Yordanov that we were accused of being traitors. Now I'm enjoying this exchange of lines because I want to say to our constituents: we didn't betray you. Obviously, someone expected to give us one person who is very important to become First Minister of Justice, then Prime Minister, then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior at all costs, at the cost of not having a government and we will vote if not, we are traitors. That is why I would like to say to our constituents: we did not pass you along, we refused to vote for cats in sacks, we refused without an agreement to ensure that it is clear what kind of people will be broadcast in regulators, to support a government, and that is why we are not traitors to our constituents. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u218	Thank you. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u219	Madam President, at the risk of becoming annoying, I am beginning to think that you are a little tired and I ask you to give Mr Vigenin the lead, because what you allow several times Here, have a coffee for 10 minutes, you'll see how wonderful Mr. Vigenin can handle it. Enough with the sympathy for Mr. Hristo Ivanov. You'll think of something. [[(Laughter) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u220	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u221	In the manner of holding supposed to, Madam President made remarks, which is wonderful. It is also wonderful that it becomes clear that when you have common policies, common steps to pass them, common goals to not list them all there for Geshev, prosecution, pensions and everything else, but it is most important that you approve the posts in the cabinet of another party where you have nothing in common and are not a coalition partner yes, it is a traitor. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u222	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Is there any more in the way of keeping? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I do not know if you are aware that this meeting is still being broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and whether it is not an extraordinary test for Bulgarian citizens to watch and hear what is happening in the plenary. Is this the return of parliamentaryism, ladies and gentlemen? Isn't today another topic on the agenda, not just for the construction of a future government? Yeah, we figured out what the arrangements were somewhere with someone, we heard how they were built and a cabinet, what conditions you set, how you exchange ministers, chairs, portions, pies and so on. When I was listening to you, I remembered the late great Stefan Danailov. He said, "What's the matter with you people when you go up on this stage? " So, colleagues, what's the matter with you, standing here holding that tone and language against your previous partners? I think it is not good that the main thesis of a political party or a parliamentary group should be the fixation on a particular person. In fact, I think it's definitely some kind of pathology. We've been the victim of that kind of pathology. Now you have stood each other up to one of your colleagues against Rossenets, the other colleagues against Buzaka. There's been a lot of talk about who's where in this puzzle. I will tell you where GERB is and what was always the opinion of GERB. Our parliamentary group was also consistent in the 44th Parliament, when we supported the Commission for the Rosenets. It didn't work because of his short term and in the 45th Parliament when we did the same. We supported and submitted a request for the establishment of the Temporary Commission for the "Bujaka" with the clear awareness that there is consensus in this House and this consensus was stated by the parliamentary tribune by all parliamentary groups. This is what we have done in voting on absolutely all the temporary committees of inquiry that you have created for the media attention of certain individuals who very much like to revise, others because of events from a year ago. GERB has supported the establishment of all committees of inquiry, will do so now, because we are very much about transparency and publicity of all decisions, regardless of which government and which government. Madam President, I am using the occasion that I am on the stand to say that GERB will participate and will nominate two of his colleagues - Mr. Mladen Shishkov and Mr. Luben Dilov, as members of this committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u224	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on Monday, the National Statistical Institute will raise inflation for July. In the army, Pirogov, County Hospital no longer has room for Kovid patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u226	Mr. Kadyev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u227	The agenda of society...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u228	May I, Mr. Kadyev, excuse me. Mr. Lachezar Ivanov, you've been calling from your seat all day! If you want any procedure, if you want any statement, come and do it out front. Sorry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u229	Madam President, the caller is not Mr. Lachezar Ivanov, but Mr. Manoil Manev, who is a colleague of mine from Stara Zagora District. And as Mr. Manev, I told you in an interview, first the cockroaches die, then the militia logic dies. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u230	Mr. Kadyev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u231	You shouldn't be yelling from a place and you don't deserve to be in this room! You're entitled to a line after my speech. [[(Voices from GERB-SDS:]] May I continue with my speech, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u232	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u233	Dear colleagues, what I wanted to tell you is very short. The agenda of the public is neither this committee nor the Commission for the Rosenets. We've been in this room since July 21st. To this day, we have not established a single committee, we have not adopted a single word of legal text. The pandemic is already around the corner, inflation has already eaten those 12.5% growth in pensions for which the caretaker government has introduced a budget update. Each of you who has entered a store has seen what happens to prices. Each of you who is involved in production knows how the electricity at the beginning of the year was 100 BGN. at a megawatt hour, it is currently 250 BGN, even today it is 285 BGN. All this means that it will appear in prices in the coming months. Our work, honourable Members, is not for hours at all to waste Parliament's time explaining what temporary committee to set up. I ask you to end this debate, to accept or not to accept this committee, who has decided to vote so, to go tomorrow to vote on a government and to vote on committees at last, because the previous parliament for nine sittings has nevertheless set up three committees - budget, legal and health, and yet some laws were rolling left and right. Our parliament has so far done absolutely nothing meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u234	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. And you've strayed from the subject. Mr. Manev for a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] He was affected, he thinks. Now he's gonna say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u235	Colleagues, putting your guard down to the lowest levels in this room is your business. The fact that you sent here, on this stand, a man to shift the subject for which you took out all your dirty shirts in front of the stands, is your business. But this Stara Zagora MP who allows himself to use the designated militia... I'm just gonna tell you, mate, I've never been a militiaman, unlike a lot of people in this room. Finally, as a Stara Zagora MP, without opening a Google, come out here and list the seven names of Stara Zagora to see people know that Stara Zagora only knows it on GPS and you are interested in Mini Maritsa-east. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's right, colleagues. Here are your interests in Stara Zagora. That is why you prayed to the leader of the BSP to make you leader of the list in Stara Zagora. That's the truth. No more using personal insults here, telling each other the truths, not personally insulting each other. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u236	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u237	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking the floor the way it is. I'd like to address the chairman. We have a specific point, with a specific task and, accordingly, until the point is completed, we need to go out with a committee vote. I turn to the host: it's really intense. I want to say from this tribune that in this case I haven't called before and I want to get an apology. I propose to the host that we stick to the subject, as you are called here to conduct this National Assembly objectively. [[Laughter, lines, applause]] Here all kinds of topics were used for political propaganda and began the political campaign for the new parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u238	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Since the beginning of the debate, your group has been yelling all the time. If you haven't been in the last case, you've been calling all the time before, Mr. Manev, too. I'm asking you very much for some restraint. Yeah, everyone's off the subject because that's obviously the subject. I think every time there's a subject like this, the pressure gets really bad and things get a little out of control. Thank you. If you're offended, if you haven't really called so much, I apologize. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u239	Thank you, Madam President. I want to answer Mr. Manev yes, I'm not from Stara Zagora and I never claimed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u240	Mr. Kadiev, there is no such procedure as to respond to Mr. Manev. This was a personal explanation because he felt affected by you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u241	I feel affected by it, too. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u242	However, he did not make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u243	I just want to say one thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u244	The statement was yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u245	I don't have an absolute...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u246	Mr. Kadyev, say these things outside the room. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u247	Then Mr. Manev should say them outside the room. Why does he have the right to attack me and I have no right to answer him?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u248	Because you mentioned it, he felt offended and took the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u249	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u250	It's the claim to name names.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u251	The only thing I wanted to say is that my interest in Maritsa East is 10,000 jobs and nothing more.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u252	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u253	...and no other things that are spinning around...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u254	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u255	...in the head, thanks to your past.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u256	Any other speeches? Here you go. [[Replications between the MPs Georgi Kadiev and Manoil Manev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u257	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u258	Quiet, please! Mr. Manev! [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev. Laughter from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Kadiev and Mr. Manev, have your conversation outside the Chamber. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u259	We are talking about illegal construction in Budzhaka. That's what you all mention about illegal construction. "Rosenets" "Improprietary Construction." Mr. Hristo Ivanov, what did he call? To expand the scope.... why? Because it is known that there is much more illegal construction. Moreover, can we from parliament become the DNCC to establish illegal construction? A long time ago, we commented on how a former prime minister with a former minister of regional development inspected a construction for which no building permit was granted. Illegal construction! The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works a few weeks ago, what did he say with something identical to Buzaka? That he found construction on a highway, on a bridge on a highway with no blueprints, no note, no investment project. Are we building a highway or waves? Illegal construction!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u260	Mr. Georgiev, on the subject of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u261	The theme for the Commission is, yes, we support "Bujaka" but the topic is much wider. Is there legal construction in Bulgaria? Yeah, that's the theme. It's a private case. I assure you, we need to think a lot more about this topic: Is there legal construction in Bulgaria? [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u262	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u263	Mr. Georgiev, I fully agree with you that the subject of illegal construction is huge. It transcends Bujaca, goes beyond Rosenets, if you will, and Hemus Motorway, which turned out to have been illegally built until one time. But since you are co-owners of such a people, the question is to you: why, when you submitted this draft for a committee, did you not propose to your colleagues from the DSS to expand the scope of the topic and you should do so from the stands of the National Assembly? The second question is to colleagues from the DPS if they want to be concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u264	The line must be to Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u265	Or you should join in this issue as a co-counsel, the question is the following: Mr. Geshev, it is obvious that you are listening to him, he then started a procedure on the occasion of the "Bujaka" and on the occasion of the illegal construction in Obzor. [[DRF lines]] Why did you miss Obzor? That is, when you are principled and you want to fight illegal construction, go to Buzaka, go to Obzor, go to Sinemorets, go to Nestinarka, which also turned out to be built first, go everywhere to solve problems. That's why you're MPs, not to get into political games. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u266	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Second line? I can't see. Would you like the word for the back, Mr. Georgiev? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u267	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Delchev, illegal construction in Bulgaria is a norm, but as I see it, I remember that you have been part of this norm of political life for a long time. Yeah, we're not! It's you! So you can say what to do about something you created as a norm, it's a little hard for me! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u268	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're closing the debate. We are going to vote on the draft decision with just two details. The reason should be art. 36 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in the last paragraph. 4 The members are missing: The President, Vice-President and Members are elected. I put to the vote the editorial proposals I have made. Vote 197 MPs: for 197, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Iankov, what is your attitude towards proposals?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u270	Report the voice, please. And now I'm voting on the whole draft decision, along with the editorial amendments already adopted. Vote 202 MPs: for 202, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are now moving on to proposals for President, Vice-President and Commissioners. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u271	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people" we propose as members of the Commission Mr. Toshko Yordanov and Mr. Stanislav Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u272	Thank you. By GERB-SDZ "Mladen Shishkov and Lyuben Dilov were proposed. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u273	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria we offer Veska Nencheva and Todor Bajchev as members. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u274	Thank you. I beg you very much to be quiet in this room. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u275	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we offer Dimitar Naydenov and Kaloyan Yankov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u276	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u277	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose Mr. Dzhevdet Chakarov and Mr. Sevim Ali, such as Jevdet Chakarov, as President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u278	Thank you. And stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u279	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of our parliamentary group, we offer Meglena Guncheva and Zhivko Tabakov as members.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u280	Thank you. However, according to the decision adopted, the Commission must also have a Vice-President. It wasn't proposed. Will anyone make an offer? Lyuben Dilov you are doing for Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u282	Okay, thank you. I shall put the proposed Commissioners to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u283	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-11.u284	They voted 198 MPs: 198, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. This is what the Temporary Commission was created with. [[Applause from DPS.]] The agenda for today is exhausted. Sit down tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
