ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I would like to inform you in advance that we have once again had the Presidency Council on the formation of the committees. We are still looking for full agreement on their composition, so next week, on Wednesday, I hope that, as point one, the composition of the committees will be the first. [[Applause from IHN.]] Mrs. Kirova asked for the floor first, Mr. Bikov. What's your procedure, Mrs. Kirova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u2	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u3	The way you're leading it? So we're already doing procedures without even saying anything? Okay. Let's see.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Doncheva, I take the floor to apologize because I think I was misunderstood yesterday by the statement I made during the procedure. I didn't use the word ugly for your physical qualities and appearance, but for your behavior in the hall and your manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u5	Don't worry. I'm not offensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u6	I'm sorry. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Once the word for the manner of conduct is already given for an apology, we have made some progress. Here you are, Mr. Bikov. On behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday it became clear that the Minister of Culture Velislav Minekov has terminated the lease contract for the newspaper. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]] The media is housed in a building owned by the Ministry of Culture after winning a competition during which it offered the highest price to rent the room. The reason for the decision of the Minister of Culture to terminate the newspaper's contract on Monday is to delay payment of rent for two months. After the owners of the newspaper "Trud" had been warned that if they did not repay their debts, the contract would be terminated, they immediately paid all the amounts due. However, the Minister of Culture terminated the lease, thus putting the workers in the newspaper in serious difficulty. We stress that this is happening in times of economic difficulties when private media, in general business, have put all their efforts into the sake of survival. In addition, actions have been taken against the family of the owner of the media. Minister Minekov's actions against a certain media, whose positions he does not agree with, are not a precedent. In the last two months he has allowed himself to attack systematically and directly public television by giving public and negative assessments of the work of certain journalists in it. She even tried to intervene in her programming policy, which is protected by law. Officially appointed Minister Minekov made unacceptable statements, which he vowed to change the management of public television without having any legal or political powers to do so. Dear colleagues, we are alerting these actions of the Minister of Culture because they are becoming an extremely dangerous trend that threatens pluralism and freedom of speech. Everyone has the right to enjoy or dislike a certain media, but no politician in a democratic country has the right to use the public resources it has to deal with any media. We are convinced that if the government and Minister of GERB acted in a similar way against any media, the reaction of NGOs, parties and journalists would be instantaneous and sharp. That would be the right position. Today, however, the unprecedented actions of a minister of service meet mostly silence and reconciliation of journalists and journalistic organizations, and sometimes they also meet the applause of the "Democratic Bulgaria." Ladies and gentlemen, the freedom of speech that we have spoken about more than once in this House is the opportunity for everyone to express their position and opinion without worrying that the state machine will attack it. In order for everyone to express their position and protect it, it is necessary to have a wide range of media to provide an opportunity to express different views. At the heart of democracy are pluralism and the possibility of a critical attitude towards power, all the more so when this power is appointed and uncontrollably from the point of view of the lack of a functioning parliament for most of its work. The parliamentary group of GERB insists that Rumen Radev take a public position with regard to the actions of his minister of service, or to clearly distinguish himself from them, or to give a concrete explanation of their motivation. If Rumen Radev is silent this time and hides behind the clichés and the transfer of responsibility beyond himself, we will believe that his concerns about freedom of speech, which were expressed every day until a few months ago, were insincere and false. If Rumen Radev does not react adequately in this situation, we will believe that his minister of service is the sole contractor of an order to destroy any journalistic voice that is not aimed at supporting the policy led by the caretaker government. We call on colleagues from all parliamentary groups in the 46th National Assembly to express their position in this situation regardless of which media and journalists are sympathetic, because this is the only way to guarantee pluralism and freedom of expression. If this does not happen, then after Velislav Minekov every minister in any government could decide that he is allowed to deal with media and journalists whose work and public position do not appeal to him. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. There's such a people here, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Due to the importance of the issues we will be debating today, I propose that we be broadcast on BNT 1 and on BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u11	I hope only the hearing, or the entire sitting, as the hearing and parliamentary control are on BNT 2. Do you just want the hearing or the whole hearing?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u12	The whole meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u13	The entire meeting will be on Channel 1. Okay. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. Mr. Yankoff?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u15	Vote 170 MPs: 147 against 6, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Please direct broadcast on BNR and BNT. We're going to point one for today: HEARING THE WORK OF THE NATIONAL GAZOPRENES MATERIAL OF THE COMMODITY OF THE COMMODITY OF THE COMMODITY OF THE RESTRUCTION OF THE COMMODITY OF THE ENERGY RESTRUCTURANCE OF THE GREENRY OF THE COMMODITY OF BULGARTRAN AGENCY, AND THE PRESENT ACTIONS OF THE MINISTRY OF THE ENERGY FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE ENERGY AND OF BEAD FOR THE REPRESENTATION OF THE LEGITATION OF THE LIQUID CRISIS OF THE BENEFICIARY OF THE BENEFICIAL FLOW OF THE BENEFICITION OF THE MINISTRY OF THE ENERGY AND OF BEAD I'm asking for the exhibit. Here you go, Mr. Hinoski, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u16	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Zhivkov, two are the points of today's hearing. I will try to present the main reasons for this hearing briefly within five minutes. Point one. It is a public secret that in the natural gas sector in Bulgaria there are a number of facts and circumstances that question its good governance. The most obvious evidence of questionable policies in this area is regarding the development of the National Transmission Network and the bizarre disappearance of such an important strategic interstate document as the National Transmission Network Development roadmap signed in 2017. As evidence of the helplessness of our country is the inability to find it despite quoting this document in the minutes of the Council of Ministers. My first question is: what are the latest results of the search for this document taken by the Ministry of Energy? Did you finally look at the DANS and the prosecution for investigating and opening pre-trial proceedings against officials in the Council of Ministers without excluding Prime Minister Boyko Borisov? My second question: to provide information about the current economic situation of the operator.. Bulgartransgaz................................... in the context of legitimate doubts in the energy environment about its deterioration due to the imbalance between expected transit receipts and financial costs. I have the following sub-question: on what basis is the transit contract with GSzprom, the latest advance of 638 million. lv. in June, a capacity increase up to 2023 ▪ Is this brotherly help lawful? My third question concerns the information available, confirmed by employees in the company. My questions specifically are: by what criteria are these documents being selected that are being humiliated? What kind are they? How much has been destroyed so far? Who's controlling the process? Are the destruction protocols being prepared? Has the Central State Archive been informed, which has not been done according to our information? On the second point: in relation to the stock market crisis, I have several questions, without putting forward the constant crisis and what the crisis is and what it is, I insist that professional naivety should be relied on long-term, that with the activation of energy from the expensive power plants TPP - Maritsa East 2s and TPP - Varna - we will be able to achieve competitive prices on the Bulgarian electricity exchange and we will save our industry from these peak values. My question is: on what grounds did the ESO accelerate the process of market unification of the Bulgarian electricity market with the Greek in the firm forecasts of the experts that this will lead to a sharp peak in the price of our exchange? It was clear that this would benefit some producers and traders of electricity, as it happened. My second question is: why were all the private power plants activated before the state power plant Maritsa East 2? In this situation, the sick person in crisis, the TPP, Maritsa East 2, could make up for much of the accumulated losses. My third question, which is also very up-to-date and sharp: why does NEK not activate the reserve available in US power plants as the first step and the fastest fulfillment in the crisis? I remind you explicitly that public interest and national security are determined by the security of supply and the price of electricity, not by the own commercial interests of individual companies and traders, which in many cases contradict the interests of society and the Bulgarian industry, which feeds a large part of the Bulgarian families. For us, the more important issue is the adoption of medium- and long-term reform measures in the sector, which are going through a serious revision of the market model, investment programmes and, accordingly, through legal changes, for which the current management cannot be blamed, but we will present in a separate declaration, at a separate press conference, our energy committee our programme and our proposals for short-term and long-term reforms in order for the Bulgarian industry to receive competitive electricity for the development of its business. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u17	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. Please, Minister, inform the National Assembly. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u18	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Hinofsky, in the order of questioning numbers. Last Friday, I had the opportunity to answer a parliamentary question regarding the missing road map. Then I explained what happened. We found documents in which this road map is quoted as quoting letters for the creation of a working group, but the Road map itself was not found. I've issued an order to search the Ministry's records in the filing system. The result was negative. I sent letters to the Bulgarian Energy Holding, to the Bulgarian Council of Ministers as well as to the Council of Ministers, as the documents for the working group quoted the Council of Ministers as saying. The result was also negative. We have not referred to the competent authorities as a particular accused official, as we cannot at the moment decide which official is responsible for this thing, but I believe that in a normal management of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the system this road map will surely come out of somewhere. With regard to the financial situation of the Bulgartransgaz. As of 31 December 2020, the financial result of Bulgartransgaz is profited before taxes, amounting to 80 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which represents a reduction of 31%. As of 30 June 2021, the Company made a net profit of 55 million. lv. versus 60 million. lv. for the first six months of 2020, that is, we have some reduction. The total revenue in 2020 amounts to 393 million. 640 thousand. BGN, as 385 million lv. represent the revenue from the main activity. The increase is 35 million. 54,000. BGN, or 10% compared to the same period of the previous year. As a result, there is an increase in sales of services. In the overall structure of the realised sales revenue, the largest share is the revenue from the transmission of natural gas to third countries, which are: Greece, Turkey and Northern Macedonia.. We are talking about 2020, and are worth 272 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. During the period, fewer quantities of natural gas were carried in the direction of Turkey compared to 2019 at the expense of an increase in quantities in the direction of Greece and northern Macedonia. Next in the revenue structure with a share of 19% are the revenue from the transmission of natural gas on the national transmission network, which amounts to 73 million. lv. According to the same period of the previous year, they are less than 12 million. $570,000. BGN, which makes about 15% reduction. The reported reduction compared to 2019 is due to the carry-over of nearly 13% less natural gas. The company's technological costs for the transport and storage of natural gas amount to 27 million. lv. and represent 12% of the costs. As regards the indicators in the company's balance sheet, a drastic increase in non-current liabilities by 1 billion has been found. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. As of 2019, the reported increase is mainly due to the obligations of the contracts concluded with the United States of America (Consortium Arkad) and the Federal Balkangas (Ferostal Balkangas) amounting to 1 billion. 45 million. BGN related to the implementation of the Project for the construction of the extension of the infrastructure of Bulgartransgaz. The total value of the expenditure incurred so far related to the implementation of the project is 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in Another major part of non-current liabilities in 2020 are long-term loans to credit institutions amounting to 794 million. lv. Credits shall be secured by cash in the form of deposits of 20% of the amount of credit used and outstanding. The company's current liabilities are less than 36 million. lv. as compared to 2019 Trade and other obligations increase by 214 million. BGN, and for the most part are obligations to suppliers and accrued amounts under contracts. As of 31 December 2020, short-term loans decreased by nearly 68% and reached 126 million. lv. In the current year similar trends have been observed on the achieved financial results, namely: revenue from the activity 951,000. BGN, total revenue; profit from the operating activity - 72 million lv.; profit after financial and other costs, tax charges lv. It is apparent from the profit achieved for the half-year that at the end of 2021 the company will realise net capital in flow within 100 BGN, which, in view of the huge investment for the realization of the project for extension of the transmission network, is highly unsatisfactory and does not comply with the stated opinion that the project will be paid for 10 years. The company's cash available is approximately 222 million. lv. The company's current financial liabilities amount to more than 2.3 billion. BGN, 2 billion of which are long-term liabilities, 1 billion 145 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. are long-term commercial obligations. In conclusion, there is a significant increase in the long-term liabilities of the Company due to the realization of investment activities carried out on the basis of unclear how rational financial models as well as doubtful efficiency of the implementation costs. This leads to a visible deterioration of the company's financial and economic situation, which in the short and medium-term will have serious difficulties in realizing even effective new projects. There is a significant increase in the long-term liabilities of the Company due to the realisation of investment obligations related to the extension of the transmission network and a relative deterioration of the overall financial and economic situation. That's for the first question. On the issue of the situation of the price hike on the Bulgarian Energy Exchange. In recent days, there has been a sharp rise in electricity prices in the market segment. There's a lot of reasons. This is the increased temperature in us and in the neighbouring countries, namely Greece, which increases immensely the consumption. However, there were no non-balances in the electricity system threatening the electricity supply of consumers. If I have to develop your prices by dates, you know them well. What the Ministry of Energy has done as successful measures is that it is almost operational so that it can come into direct contact with TPP Maritsa East 2 and activate all possible capacities so that the liquidity of the Bulgarian Energy Exchange can increase. This, of course, happened with a certain delay, as it is normal, it is a reaction of the operational management of the TPP - Maritsa East 2 and then of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. The Ministry does not, in principle, have direct obligations on monitoring the market and reacting to capacities, including them or the introduction of new capacities into the system. As a result of the intervention of the Ministry of Energy in the TPP, Maritsa East 2 and 2 participated from two blocks more three additional ones, which at this stage is the maximum at which the TPP Maritsa East 2 can work, as three of the blocks are being renovated. What we're doing is shortening the repair time of one of the eight blocks...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u19	Minister, your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u20	...to be able to engage and increase liquidity enough to avoid such upheavals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u21	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! Please give us an explanation in the manner in which this hearing is conducted, because our understanding is that there are two questions in it: one related to the Bulgartransgaz and the other related to the price of electricity. So what we think should happen is that on each of these issues, the parliamentary groups have the right to ask two questions and on each of these issues to take account. The confusion came from the fact that Mr. Hinoski presented the questions and began to ask some questions to which the minister answered. I mean, is this the order I ask you to answer: two questions about Bulgartransgaz. Two questions about the price of electricity, attitude about Bulgartransgaz and attitude about the price of electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The way I read it, the hearing is one thing. It is not as it has been asked two hearings so far. And we should fit into a single hearing with the common time. At least that's how it's set. It's not like separate hearings with a common theme like we've been looking at these days. If you consider and decide that, in view of the importance, it is good to ask two questions, given that the text says: it makes a statement of the questions, but it says: within five minutes, which is a total of five minutes I interpret it, must be a total. If you think it is extremely important and want to be on two issues, we can do so as an exception. But I just want to point out to you that at 11:00 the parliamentary control begins, so my request to all parliamentary groups is to be as precise as possible over time and not exceed it. And eventually, when the control approaches, let's extend with the appropriate time for its completion so that the control can be within the last three hours of the meeting and not shorten its time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u24	Thank you for your clarification. I'd like to take a look at the way it's handled. On the second topic relating to the price of electricity, we are asking for a hearing for two weeks in a row and this request for a hearing is not submitted to the agenda. We have never put it to a question since we have seen that there is a similar question in today's hearing from colleague Hinoski, and we have decided to save parliamentary time using this one to ask our questions as well. In other words, we insist that separate hearings be held because these are two very separate topics - one related to gas and to Bulgartransgaz and the other related to electricity and the policy of the Ministry in the field of electricity. So we insist on two issues on both separate topics and on two relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u25	Is there an agreement on that? If I have to follow the rules exactly, it's one hearing, but given the importance, I agree. Is there any agreement on asking two questions to a question from the hearing? I won't. But I'm going to ask you for the maximum time limit and I'm going to try to follow it, and I'm going to keep it strictly. We start with the first parliamentary group. Mr. Hinoski, come in for a question, as you and your global hearing have brought us into this situation, but I think it would be helpful for everyone to have a hearing and talk about it. Here is your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I'm not happy that I didn't get an answer to one of the most important questions in the first part... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u27	Mr. Hinosky, if I could just draw your attention...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u28	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u29	... You'll be asking the question now. Mr. Hinofsky, under procedure, you first present your questions, and then the minister informs us and you start asking questions. So you in the first part don't ask any questions to the Minister. Now we start with the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u30	I asked the first part four questions. Now I'm saying that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u31	You have no right and you can't do that in the first part.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u32	I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u33	Start with your first question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u34	I didn't get an answer and I asked a question: what documentation is being destroyed in Bulgartransgaz. In what order, who authorized this procedure? Are there any protocols? And can you present to the MPs the list of documents that have been destroyed so far? The strange and disturbing thing is that the Central Archives have no information about this process, and they are obliged to inform the Archives. And my second question...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u35	I can't ask you a second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u36	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u37	We are now dealing with matters regarding the Bulgartransgaz.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u38	The first part, okay. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Hinoski, the Ministry of Energy has not received official information about the destruction of documents. You know, Bulgartransgaz is a company with a two-stage structure of management. We have not carried out such checks. If you have signals of such a thing, file them in writing so we can do a punctuality check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u41	Thank you, Minister Zhivkov. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u42	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister of Energy! I will really be very brief because obviously there was some confusion with the procedure. My specific question, Mr. Minister of Energy, to you in connection with the project "Balkan Stream" is as follows: I felt a certain note of concern regarding the data you submitted, but at the same time what you presented to us as information shows that there are no grounds for concern because the project meets absolutely all the requirements, has all the necessary analysis, financial justifications, which make it clear that the project brings revenue and realises profit. Therefore, my question to you is: the Balkan Stream is in commercial operation as of 1 January 2021. Please tell us briefly and clearly: what is the financial result of the Bulgartransgaz as of 31 December 2020? What is the financial result of the Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) on 30 June 2021? What is the amount of revenue that the Bulgarian authorities implemented on 30 June 2021 compared to 30 June 2020? Are there any obligations at this time? And to point out are there any suspended projects related to its activity..stopped modernization, rehabilitation, stopped the construction of Chiren....................................................................... the implementation of Bulgaria........................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. I'll just remind you there's no confusion in the procedure. The rules are clear: questions.. general time is not a question. But since we have an agreement, that's why we split the questions. Here you are, Minister Zhivkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mrs. Petkova, from the data I have just read I will read them again: as of 31 December 2020 the financial result of the Bulgartransgaz, profit before taxes is 80 million. lv. in respect of realised profits as at 2019 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. As of 30 June 2021, the Company made a net profit of 55 million. BGN, which, if extrapolated to the end of the year, the expected result is again within 100 million. lv. That is, it is relevant to the outcome of the project and its launch.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u45	That's not disturbing!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u46	In other words, 2.5 billion has been spent. BGN, and the result is the same as last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u47	What do you mean, spent?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u48	All right, invested! You're asking me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u49	Please, Mrs. Petkova, you will have the opportunity to go on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u50	If it is claimed that the investment of 2,5 billion. lv. It will return in 10 years, which means it has to increase the annual revenue roughly by 250 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u51	Thank you, Minister Zhivkov. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u52	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! A moment ago, it was said that some documents had disappeared in the company, and we were also under the impression that someday this road map would come up, it would be found. During the verification of the KEWRC, which started on 5 April, I will then comment on why this date is, there have been violations in almost all the contracts of Bulgartransgaz, which he has concluded. There are many examples that have snuck into the media space of what violations were committed during the construction of this pipeline. I will ask: what explains, for example, that at the entrance of Bulgaria in Turkey the capacity is 15.75 billion gas as a quantity? Somehow our pipeline is built to take on 20 billion. How will this difference of 5 billion come from? Maybe some imaginary Azerbaijani gas we've been waiting for for him for years. But has anyone ever done an analysis of how much the entire project has been spent on this particular difference? And I'll give you a few examples. For example, in Svishtov's tour, the original value of the project is 8 million. lv. 4 million supplies and 4 million constructions, i.e. supply of equipment and 4 million constructions. But since the four million are financed by "Kozloduy" and are controlled by Europe, the order is divided into supply and construction and suddenly the four million works become 16! Maybe in this road map somewhere these things are written, maybe we're just looking for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u53	Mr. Genov, your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u54	Yeah, I've only got thirty seconds left because I'm saying interesting things that colleagues may not have heard from them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u55	Yes, but you'll have three more questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u56	I'm moving on. The same scheme has been applied along the Pirdop route. Finally, to ask myself: is it not disturbing for you, Mr. Minister, that this verification of the KEWRC is extremely late April 5th, this is the date after the parliamentary elections, the next day when the whole situation of the status quo is stirred, as colleagues say, in Bulgaria? The KEWRC shall hold a closed meeting on 3 July and submit the report to you. My idea is: what measures have you taken since 3 July to refer to the competent authorities about the infringements described in this report? And also...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u58	...should we find out about the violations of the Bulgartransgaz....only from the media about these reports? When will these things be discussed in the Bulgarian Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u59	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Genov, I cannot comment on when the check was carried out by the KEWRC and what is the reason for it to be done one day after the parliamentary elections. The report that came to me, we read it. It has identified a number of infringements, and that is when concluding loans to finance the construction of the extension of the transmission network. They are more than 10 specific cases. The conclusion of contracts as well as the conclusion of collateral. The Commission's conclusions on energy and water regulation are adamant that these are violations. There was a correspondence between the "Bulgartransgaz" and the Commission in which the "Bulgartransgaz" objected to the constitutional protocol created by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, but in its final report the Commission did not adopt any of those of the "Bulgartransgaz." Subsequently, since there was absolutely no reaction to this report from the Bulgarian Energy Holding, I was forced to ask for the removal of the management of Bulgartransgaz, which did not happen. And the weird thing is not only that it didn't happen, but the Supervisory Board of Bulgartransgazs sent a letter to the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control with a request to interpret what a management means and what a suspension means. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission organizes another check, whose results we are waiting for. This is the check for overindebtion and is there such a case of Bulgartransgaz. And as you know, last week also came the acts of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which imposes nearly 450 thousand. lv. Half a million fines by Bulgartransgaz amid its financial situation. So we have not taken measures to refer to the competent authorities. We are also waiting for the second inspection of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to see what the final results will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u61	Thank you. Mr. Dimitrov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u62	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! You realize that it is not serious, after three months the roadmap for development of the network with the Gszprom is not open, to say, Mr. Minister: "Well, it will come out of somewhere."............................. it will come out of this logic if this way we manage the state and wait for something to come out, nothing good is waiting for us. Because the key question is a key question: with this roadmap what additional commitments Bulgaria has made, are there other projects we do not know about? Is this road map relevant to the fact that Bulgaria did not ask for 1 billion? The dollar penalty on the previous gas contract? Is there a connection like that, or isn't there? You will now say that you can't answer these questions because you don't have the map. That is why we from "Democratic Bulgaria." I ask you today to ask for it from "Gsprom." There's nothing embarrassing, nothing embarrassing about it, like you told me last Friday that you were uncomfortable. I won't. This is a public document signed between the two parties. Something has happened, some things are lost to some, others less, but there is nothing uncomfortable about asking for this road map. If you do not do so today, I am telling you that the future Energy Commission is seeing that its members, some of them, are looking at me right now, will ask for this roadmap from the Gazprom. That is, if you do not do so today, we will bring things to a procedure in which the Energy Commission, which wants it to sign, will probably not all sign, I believe that there are colleagues who want this road map not to be found, but whoever wants it will sign and we will ask for it. So I urge you not to waste any more time. It is important for us to know what commitments Bulgaria has made. It is important for us to know in this road map whether the term "Balkan Stream" is at all, or whether there is no such term. It is important for us to know what other projects there are. It is important for us to know about this 1 billion. The dollar penalties that were not requested by the previous government. You will say that this is the previous government. Yes, it is, but in this road map, whether there is more clarity on this issue and whether there are commitments. So I urge you today to act. If not, we'll do it. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u63	Thank you. Here you go. That was more of an appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you called me for the same in Friday parliamentary control. After all, I think there are people here who can help us find this road map. I don't know how serious it is to ask the other side to look for our documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u65	It's serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u66	Okay, I promise I will seriously consider this option today and see what reputational damage we would suffer as a country and look for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u67	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Madam President! I do not know how and how today was supposed to go with a hearing of the Minister of Energy, but I am glad that still issues have started to be raised that are of essential interest to energy. And since we started with the Bulgartransgaz, my doubt is that, obviously, the interests in the gas sphere or in the Bulgartransgaz are much more of the interests of green energy than how and in what way we should work in order to be able to absorb the funds from the fair transition so that we can help the miners, but nevertheless, when we accept, colleagues, that we will go in this order, my question to the minister will be very brief. Since I heard from your exhibition I had other questions, you said that there is no funds for new effective projects, could you tell us about which effective projects according to your Ministry there is no funds in the "Bulgartransgaz" on this day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u69	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Atalay, I said that we have concerns that if the financial activity and the financial part of the Bulgartransgaz is developing in this way, there is a danger of endangering new projects. I can't tell you what new projects there are, because when I requested the investment program of Bulgartransgaz. It was not provided to the Ministry. I wanted it so I could run an analysis on whether there was any danger, threat to the investment programme, but it wasn't given to us until the end of the day when we prepared the answer. So specific projects I can't tell you. All I'm saying is that the revenues are now relevant to the revenue before this big investment, which means that the effect of it is currently not felt and the debt is already a fact. That's the conclusion we're making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u71	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u72	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! My first question is actually taking it as rhetorical, not a question. What do you think the executive should do in your person if you find this road map and it turns out that something else is written on it and not what was built? It was an accident. I'm guessing. Because Mr. Martin Dimitrov, who I don't know if is in the hall and, in the hall he is, certainly remembers how he and his colleague Kapon long sought a contract between the Russian gas company Bulgargaz. Turns out the damage to Bulgaria is huge. They barely let them in the Secret Section to read. So if you find this road map and it turns out there's something else on it, get ready for action now. Now my question, so I don't delay the time. Is there a parallel to this famous optical cable pipe, a black fibre that continues to be owned by the Bulgarian State and for which it does not know what information is being transferred from the territory of the Republic of Turkey to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and there is no operator so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u73	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Babikan, I will answer you correctly that I do not know what is the optical cable that is released along the tube of the expansion of the Balkan stream. I know that IBCB's pipe is wired with an optical cable like this. How to use it, I don't know either. But this, of course, I can check it out, give it to you as a written answer, or back in the room again, it's not a problem for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u75	Thank you. We move on to the issues related to the actions of the Ministry of Energy and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. There's such a people here, Mr. Hinoski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u76	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Zhivkov! I have asked some of my questions in the motives of the second group, but now I would like to quote again. Of course, the main problems that have accumulated are the lack of a long-term strategy, investment projects in non-carbon production, which requires consensus between all political forces, a new energy strategy. It's not your fault, we can't blame you, and we can't demand responsibility. I want to ask you a question, very curious: what happened that stubborn refusal to release five blocks of magic happened Did you succeed, or did someone threaten the director of TPP Maritsa East 2 with sanctions? And in this regard, I would like to ask you: are you launching some criminal procedure for the management of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which has shown criminal passivity and negligence in this crisis, which has brought tens of millions of losses to the Bulgarian industry, including the fisca, and to all chains that follow the work of the Bulgarian industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u77	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Hinofsky, magic has not happened. There was just an active communication between the team of the Ministry of Energy, I stress, and the management of the TPP Maritsa East 2 The inclusion of the blocks did not happen at the rate at which it was supposed to happen, that is, it has become delayed, but it is a momentum of work that has been inherited, and the TPP Maritsa East 2 is accustomed to working on guaranteed quantities with orders and not to be interested, and not to deepen in market trends, trends in the change of weather and so on. That is to say, with our active communication, the TPP is working with five blocks and, among other things, the Mini Maritsa East is already working from two to four shifts, which, if we go back in time and a forward-looking policy is being conducted by the management of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the TPP Maritsa East 2s, we can imagine at the lower price levels of carbon dioxide emissions what profits could be generated at the TPP Maritsa East 2s and the TPP not being in such a bad state as it is now. The thermal power plant is currently forecast to make a profit for the second half of this year, which hasn't happened in a long time. And in a year's cut, it's going to come out at a minimal loss, incomparably with the losses it's generated so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u79	Thank you. From GERB-SDS? [[Heckling]] The way you're going after the minister? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u80	Thank you, Madam President. I couldn't tell if we were going by the rules and by the rules we accepted this morning quietly. I can see that Mr. Hinoski confused the system, the order, but we agreed to ask two questions in the field of Bulgartransgaz and then move on to the price and further state of our electricity system and the market.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u81	Yeah, that's how we walk.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u82	How are we doing now, because the minister has already started answering the last question from Mr. Hinoski's statement, who has been reading it since morning, and has been carrying it around for a month now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u83	Mr. Atalay, we walk the way it is when identical hearings are tabled, we unite them into one and walk: first question on one, first question to the other. Then we go back: second question on one, second question on the other. That's the procedure, and that's how we've been working for two or three weeks. That's why we keep doing this. If I have to apply the Rules precisely, I have explained to you the hearing is one way to bring it in by the people's representative. The Rules explicitly state that the hearing may also be with several questions, but the time is common to questions. In this case, we agreed to divide and begin. So we went over the first questions about Bulgartransgaz and now we are going to BEH, then we will go back to the second questions about Bulgartransgaz and BEH as we act in this case. So I've specified which questions we're going to.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u84	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u85	Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! Minister, in the last 10 days we see electricity prices in Bulgaria that are more than 50% higher than average prices or prices in Western Europe of electricity. In other words, in Bulgaria electricity is much more expensive than electricity in Europe. This does not concern bits, at least not at this initial stage. Of course, you know that it will also begin to concern people in the next regulatory period, i.e. these high prices will also affect the population in Bulgaria over time. We saw in the last week protest declarations, letters, signals from all employers' organizations in Bulgaria. We have seen that dozens of businesses have stopped working and are continuing to stop working. Thousands of other enterprises are working at a loss because of these abnormally high electricity prices in Bulgaria. We all know where the reason is.. it is in the limited supply and that some state plants, and not only state, simply do not work. So we have bad control on the part of TPP 2 and NEK, which do not burden the power. I will take a longer and wider attitude when it comes to explaining to you what the problem is and how it should be resolved in my opinion, but my specific question to you is: in this difficult situation, in this chaos, in this tragedy, literally in the energy that is happening at the moment, and in the economy, because this is affecting the economy, did you, as a minister, make a crisis headquarters? My question is simple. Usually in such situations, a crisis headquarters is made on the first day on which all stakeholders participate, and an attempt is made to solve the problem. I have been Minister of Energy, there are other ministers of energy in this House we have practiced many times, this is a practice in the Ministry of Crisis Headquarters, this headquarters is meeting, making decisions, writing protocols. Have you created such a headquarters, what decisions have this headquarters made? Can you brief us on these decisions? For your information, it doesn't take long to launch blocks in TPP 2. They go into parallel for no more than 8 hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Dobrev, the situation with the rise in electricity prices has many factors affecting her, and the smallest of these factors is the ministry of energy's staff. There are factors here that interestingly coincide with the inauguration of the office, such as the capling with Greece, which was made on the day before entering the offices. The way I didn't say, I never said that the blocks take technological time to get involved. Management needs technological time because it has never worked on a market principle before and it was necessary for management to include it technologically slowly in order to include the blocks. This is the result of the fact that this management is used to operating the plant only when there is a warrant from the minister and issuing invoices. There's an entire department of eight people who had them a long time ago and who didn't know what they were doing until a week ago? Now I can tell you that they're doing something because they're really involved in the market. But it's a principle of work that was imposed before the office came. I have not done crisis headquarters because I believe that this crisis can be managed without crisis headquarters and it shows itself with a return to price levels. You know very well that here very seriously contributed the continuing heat in Greece and in Bulgaria not only in Greece. The load increased at times when the price was high, the load was about 5.2 So that's my answer to your question. Not technological blocks need, but it is harder for human capacity to move it when it is not used to working in a certain way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u89	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! It's more than serious. The monthly report of the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange for June says the price of electricity in June compared to May is 53% higher. In July, compared to June, it was 23% higher. This means in just two months the electricity price increase for the free market by 88.2%! Since the beginning of the year Bulgaria has ranked second in price levels throughout the European Union the poorest country has the second highest prices! We have entered this Parliament not only to build the model of the pre-government, including energy, but to ensure some growth in incomes. Instead, what we will serve to Bulgarian citizens is price growth and they will feel it very soon, as the industry will simply increase prices due to increased costs in each direction. I know the waterworks, at which 70% of their operating costs are for electricity naturally, they will ask for a higher price of water and so it happens everywhere. Dear Minister, the behaviour of BEH producers has been absolutely outrageous in recent years. NPP "Kozloduy" has not had an annual auction since 2019. It only sells short-term products for higher profits. NEK today launches a weekly tender, with a down payment on top of it, which means that only foreign companies will most likely appear because they have the opportunity to remove these funds, which means that energy is exported because they do not have a portfolio in Bulgaria and do not care about Bulgarian customers. TPP Maritsa East 2 I think the last auction they organised is in 2015 and there are eight traders there, as you have heard. It's 2021 now! In six years, what have these people done? It is a public secret that all the appointments at the TPP Maritsa East 2 are going through the mayor of Stara Zagora. The entire football team, in which he kicks Zhivko Todorov, is appointed to the Maritsa East. That's where the model needs to be broken down...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u91	The weather, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u92	...every day and every day. I'm moving on to the questions, Minister. First of all, how do you assess the behaviour of the Ministry of Energy Is this relevant to the dismissal of Deputy Minister Alexander Nikolov? Secondly, how do you assess the behaviour of producers in the BEH group and their impact on free market prices? Do you see sabotage in the conduct of the management of the TPP Maritsa East 2? And thirdly, do you think that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u93	Mr. Kadiev, you have only one question.... there have become three and you have exceeded the time too much. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry Mr. Mirchev isn't here to make a remark to you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u94	In the second round of questions, I'll ask the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u95	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Kadyev, on your first question. Alexander Nikolov's dismissal cannot be related to the price situation because he has not dealt with relations with TPP Maritsa East 2 Otherwise, on the question of how I appreciate the behaviour of companies. And a moment ago, I answered the previous question that the behaviour of commercial companies in my opinion is not at all, of course, but at some of them, such as TPP Maritsa East 2, is not market and has not been marketed in recent years. In order for something to happen in the direction of these companies to behave as market-like as possible, I think the solution is simply to appoint real managers to manage the companies, as these are commercial companies for the purpose of making maximum profit, of course, with the system's stability requirements and so on as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u97	Thank you. "Democratic Bulgaria." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u98	Thank you. Dear Minister, we all know about the energy bombs that have been set in recent years: obligations, losses and so on. I have a feeling the Energy Ministry has, however, in recent months rather than defusing them, actually detonated them. And this is what I judge by the actions, right at the launch, or rather the late release of the blocks of the TPP, Maritsa East 2, which, as seen from the last days, the price of the energy exchange, have a huge impact on the market. The price, in fact, since all five units were released, fell by about 30% at pre-crisis levels. At the same time, this delay led to extraordinary profits for several coal thermal power plants associated with the gentlemen Kovachki and Dogan. TPPs in certain cities had not worked for many years in Dimitrovgrad and elsewhere. Now the people there are already complaining about environmental problems, the ones that have been missing for quite some time. In other words, the private business is able to turn on its power much faster than the state. It is much more flexible and takes advantage of the extraordinary profits that the state gives it on a platter. At the same time, the industry is suffering. Bulgaria is losing competitiveness due to the late actions of TPP Maritsa East 2 You said the power plant didn't work under market conditions, that's for sure. My question is: what can be done so that it is not an office, rather the Board of Directors does not behave as an office of the Ministry, but as a real active market undertaking as it should be? When will cost cuts begin there, as we all know that at the TPP, Maritsa East 2 is an extremely high cost if we compare them to the private TPPs in the region? Thank you, these are my questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u99	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! In fact, the answer to these questions coincides with what I said a few moments ago. "These trading companies will start to behave in commercial terms when they are managed by real managers, which is supposed to appoint such managers. I don't agree that the Department of Energy detonates bombs because there are many bombs that were planted before that, and they detonate themselves in time. One of the prerequisites for the lack of response in NEK, for example, is that two of the turbines of the Çairas and two of the turbines of the "Bellmekens" are in a long repair that is not going well, and that is because the contracts there are concluded so that they fully protect the interests of the contractor and not of the contracting entity, which is NEK in this case. Another Turbine by Chaira quite accidentally must have landed a few days ago. If these turbines were available, there wouldn't be such a situation. What the Ministry has done, we have made serious meetings with the performers to say that it is not an option to extend the contracts and that they have to meet them in time, in time and quality, because there are huge doubts as to the quality of the repairs. So detonation works on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u101	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Mr. Atalay, do you want the floor or not? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u102	Thank you, Madam President. There's no way we're gonna miss out on this day to see some right-wing politicians campaigning to stop private businesses and all the while in their minds, there are these conspiracy decisions... Energy, colleagues, is reality. Energy does not need to limit and explain which power station to whom it is and approach the power stations according to their owners. These enterprises are enterprises of the Bulgarian state and protect the national security of Bulgaria. I stop here to ask the next question to the Minister of Energy regarding the situation that happened a few days ago. I can tell you that if it really wasn't for Bobov, TPP Varna and all that you heard just a moment ago from the minister, how for one reason or another the power is in repair. When there are businesses that can go into parallel within minutes, and at two o'clock today, right-wing politicians come out here and talk about Charlie Chaplin's mute movies, I don't see it. Since the situation that has happened, the businesses that have stopped, the overall economy of the state requires serious solutions and serious treatment, it is not necessary today to make a policy of this tribune, but to sit down and see how and how we are going to resolve this issue. Therefore, my question to you, Minister, is: do you think that the Ministry of Energy acts adequately in the situation with the production and market of energy and what decisions did the Ministry of Energy take not to repeat the same case because the heat will continue, the Greek market is there? In my opinion, there is something deeper in all of this, but I expect your answer to whether or not they are related and legislative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u103	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Atalay, what the Ministry is taking as medium-term measures is a review of all repair programmes that are about to happen with the decommissioning of capacity. And by revising these repair programs, let's analyze them so that the energy balance is not disrupted. Pretty soon, at the end of this week, one energy block from the TPP Maritsa East 3 is entering, which was in planned repairs, and the VIII block of the TPP Maritsa East 2 is improving, i.e. liquidity will improve. With regard to the fact that undertakings with the greatest energy intensity are affected. I have had talks with them before the last one that is about the crisis, and here perhaps it is a legislative solution to compensate, as is done all over the world, these enterprises through some compensation to ensure their competitiveness. And with regard to whether there are other legal measures that can be taken, I think it wouldn't be bad to review the rules for trading on the exchange, perhaps it wouldn't be bad to review the ways of licensing traders, but this is a subject of a serious and long conversation that we can't have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u105	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u106	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Minister, during the 45th National Assembly in the Committee on Revision, we played cat and mouse with Bulgartransgaz and we had a direct sabotage to present any documents related to the operation of the holding. We expected them to bring us the requested documents by truck, with TIR because they couldn't scan them, they didn't store them online. As far as we have observed your behaviour, you have not taken any action against the leadership of the "Bulgartransgaz" because they have failed to fulfil their obligation to implement a decision of Parliament and to provide requested documents. It is not surprising to me that the management of the Bulgarian Energy Holding is in the same way trying to behave, quoting Mr. Valentin Nikolov's statement of August 4th, who said: "BECH is structured as a financial holding company within which the subsidiaries retain their operational autonomy and therefore BEH has no power to determine the market behaviour of the companies in the Group and even that any such interference in the business will undermine the operational autonomy of the companies. This was in the context of the attempt to request information, including from the Minister of Energy regarding the liquidity crisis on the exchange, as a result of which Bulgaria had the second highest price in Europe and on certain days 50% price of industrial electricity from the price in Germany. This caused serious tension in the business that they claimed, including that it was a deliberate, deliberate price hike for the benefit of certain individuals or that, i.e. someone benefited from the actions of the Bulgarian Energy Exchange...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u107	Mrs. Manolova, your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u108	My question to you is: By entering the office of Minister of Service, did you find any rules and any mechanism for the influence of the Ministry, which is the principal of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, in relation to the conduct of the holding and of the state companies there, or does each of the executive directors do whatever he wants for the sale of quantities of electricity to the Stock Exchange and export at whatever prices he wants without even complying with the energy security of the state? All this is also as a result of the lack of, correct me, of rules and of some clear strategy carried out by the previous government in the energy sector.. chaos, chaos, chaos...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u110	...as a result of which some economic entities earn on the back of the Bulgarian business.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mrs. Manolova, with regard to companies, I have said several times and not only to them, but also to the Bulgarian Energy Holding, when there are responsible people in the positions, the system will work normally, will anticipate these situations and will solve them quickly. When there are people in the positions of responsibility who are with clerical thinking and waiting for the Ministry to call them and tell them what to do about whether out of fear, whether out of incompetence, whether on purpose, then companies will not work well. Whatever rules there are in the end, it is a question of quality staffs, what I think is lacking in Bulgarian energy. This was also the reason because there was no response to my request to remove the management of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. You know that there the court stopped the entry, there is an argument, waiting to be decided in a court of law. But the speculation after that, which began that the energy will fail, that there is no one to sign the payment order to pay off the bond loan, these were things that showed how it is thought in Bulgarian energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u113	Thank you. We move on to the second questions about Bulgartransgaz. There is such a people? There aren't any. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u114	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "Bulgartransgaz " as an independent transmission operator and placed under the conditions of a natural monopoly, above all, comply with the law and with the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation. Over the years, operators, part of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, have proven that they mainly contribute to the positive financial result of the holding. I have a question for you regarding the financial situation with several sub-questions. First of all, in relation to the Balkan Stream, are you aware of the decision with which the KEWRC came out in 2018, with the rate of return, the years for which the project will be paid, the transfer fee; respectively, if you are aware why during one of the most important processes in the Bulgarian energy sector the imitation of bonds by the Bulgarian Energy Holding You have imposed the procedure in the direction that this project will not be paid back or will be paid back for many more years? This contributed to an increase in the political risk in the assessment of investors from zero and one-tenth percent to zero and thirty-five hundred percent, which in this billion Bond brings financial damage to the Bulgarian Energy Holding, respectively, and to Bulgartransgaz. The other sub-question is aimed at this: in what way have you contributed to the financial situation of the "Bulgartransgaz" after in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan you cut off some of the projects of the "Bulgartransgaz" which we protected in our time with teeth and claws and managed to prove that they can be financed 100% without the self-contribution of the "Bulgartransgaz" project? Or to put it another way, I am interested in what document you requested from the Ministry to the Ministry of Bulgartransgaz, but I am alerting you that the 10-year investment plan is uploaded both on the operator's website and on the KEWRC's website, which approves it every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u115	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Stankov, regarding how much the Bulgartransgaz is following the rules of the Commission for energy and water regulation, there is a report of enough pages and there is a description of how the Bulgartransgaz is following the rules, what are the conclusions, and there is a fine, so the answer to this question is clear. It is obvious that the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation does not quite comply with the rules of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Regarding the bond, Mr. Nikolov publicly said that the current bond has the best financial conditions of all who have been so far, so I do not see how exactly the speeches have affected this. Your next question I forgot, if you'll excuse me. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u117	The cutting of projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u118	Oh, yeah, cutting projects. There, in the group of Deputy Prime Minister Atanas Pekanov participated my Deputy Minister Alexander Nikolov and, as far as I have information, these projects were cut after communication with the European Commission. I personally don't know what's causing this thing, so that's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u119	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u120	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My question to you relates to the following circumstance. You are probably aware that for many years the percentage of gasification and access to gasification among the population in Bulgaria is less than 3%. At the same time, the infrastructure of the Balkan Stream, which has absorbed investments of 2.6 billion. BGN, in five places there is a connection with the transit network. As you know, it's at Strandzha, Lozenets, Provadia, Wolf Dol and another place I think it was New Senovets or something. It's a fact. At the same time, on the basis of capacity auctions, which give the vitality of such an investment, the My question is this: what is your vision and what are the approaches, how do we solve the case in which we run into water and go thirsty, or in the presence of such a large-scale transit and flow in Bulgaria how do we increase and break this trend from less than 3% of population access to gasification? The average European rate is above 35 "40" as far as I am aware. And in a broader sense, my specific question is as follows: is there a link between the 10-year Investment Program of Bulgartransgaz and the actions under which it is implemented and invested in the Balkan Stream? If there are requests for accession to gas energy projects in Northwestern Bulgaria, are there restrictions or technical inability to do so? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u121	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! I'm afraid the questions you just asked are spreading very far back and very forward in time, because they are strategic enough. I have not been involved in building the strategy to expand the Balkan Stream. What I know from Bulgartransgaz is that this "Balkan Stream" is built on the basis of pansism procedures, i.e. an interest in transit. What is the strategy and ideas for the future development of the Balkan Stream and the Bulgartransgaz, provided that 90% of its capacity is committed, I cannot tell you because I have not developed this strategy. It is nice, perhaps, to listen to the leadership of the Bulgartransgaz to explain to you all these questions you are asking. At the moment, I know what you know. In five places the pipe is connected to the existing transmission network that 90% of the capacity is reserved. There is one intended deviation from the pipeline to Chiren. That's what's foreseen as an extension, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u123	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u124	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, since we are talking about the search, the search for the Road map, I have a suggestion for you. Before we become a cutter and ask from the "Gsprom" here the entire Council of Ministers of GERB became MPs. Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova is here to ask, should we ask her where she is first? If Mrs. Petkova doesn't know, let's ask Mr. Boyko Borisov. If he doesn't know, you can have a meeting in Bankya and there Mr. Borisov at these meetings of the Council of Ministers to say...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u125	Mr. Mirchev, let's keep the good tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u126	...where the map really is. If not, in the Boyana residence in one of the drawers I'm sure she'll be found. Specifically to my question to you, Mr. Minister, as this is a promise to the Bulgarian citizens and to the Association of Boyets: when will the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board of Bulgartransgaz be finally removed, especially after the fines imposed on them? Secondly, when are we finally going to find out the truth about Turkey's stream of funding, construction, who allowed what and how 3 billion were spent? lv.? Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u127	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! Mr. Mirchev, regarding the removal of the management of the Bulgartransgaz. I have already answered you several times. [[Reply from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev.]] Okay, I promise I'll answer you every week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u129	Thank you. Colleagues, I am pressing the voting button as time is running out and we have parliamentary control. If we want to close this hearing today, we have to extend the hours to finish it. I have to put the procedural motion to the vote, so I press the button. Should I put it on now, or should I wait a little longer? [[Replys: a little bit more.]] A little more, okay. I'll keep pushing. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, with every passing day, I don't seem to see a solution to this road map problem. At least those looking for this map, what they expect to see in it, if they can explain it to us. Because in the presence of a contract and in a contract where it says that there are other legal documents, not to focus on the basic contract and look for some map, it's probably not a map drawn up by the Council of Ministers. Be assured. In connection with the development of the Bulgarian gas network, the development of the gas network in Bulgaria, in recent years, given the geopolitics, given the participation of Bulgaria and the attempts of Bulgaria, so that it can be a hub, from there we have already passed the smaller requirements, everything that happened from the South Stream to the construction of the Turkish Stream, the Balkan Stream, and other times I have said it, could be Gerberski Stream, and now we can call it the IBGN, ITN and so on, whichever stream, there have been enough efforts to keep Bulgaria out of the development of the gas network, which should connect us with Europe. But I will develop the whole thesis during my opinion. So I ask the questions related to the Balkan Stream, with this pipe, with the idea to clarify the financial situation, to see what the revenues are and what will happen to the further operation of the tube. Therefore, my question is: what are the reserve capacities under the "Balkan Stream" and the expected revenues from 1 October 2021 and what is the total revenue up to 2039? To make it clear to all MPs that the meaning of the pipe that was built is, first, to pay off the revenues. And the second, which should happen that this facility, which passes through the territory of Bulgaria, bringing the corresponding revenues, will it allow for the development of our economy? As far as I am concerned, you have not been able to tell us those projects that will be more effective in your opinion, but I can tell you that at the moment the projects for Pirdop, Panagyurishte, Svishtov and the expansion of Chiren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u131	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament! Dear Mr. Atalay, the capacity has come to light that they are reserved by two companies for more than 90% of the pipeline. The expected revenues and the exact financial plan by 2039, I admit that I am not prepared to respond to you at the moment because we were looking at the financial situation of Bulgartransgaz. I am committed to providing you with all this information personally. Whether in writing or in plenary, as you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u133	Thank you. Colleagues, I put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the working time until this point is completed and, accordingly, the extension of parliamentary control over time extended by the hearing so that all Members of Parliament can receive answers to their questions and questions. And in this regard, to remind you that the hearings that we could not complete today and this week are fixed dates, so the MPs, if they want to be considered next week, must re-submit them. I put to the vote the procedural proposal I have made to extend working hours. Vote 152 MPs: for 151, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're moving on with the stand-up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u134	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! With a report with the entry number EVK651 of 29 June 2021, KEWRC found that for the construction of the project "Turkish Stream" "Bulgartransgaz" EAD has concluded contracts for a number of bank loans and loans from private companies "Arkad" and "Ferosthal Balkangas." The contracts with the two companies are for the construction of the project at a deferred payment for 10 years, with an annual interest rate of 4.1. These contracts have been concluded by the Bulgarian authorities in breach of the Energy Act and the Decree on the licensing of energy activities, which provide for the prior approval of such loans contracts by the KEWRC. The requirement is in order to analyse the potential consequences of such loans for the security of supply to the country. However, Bulgartransgaz did not request such approval, which in practice violated the requirements of the regulation. The KEWRC is about to issue an opinion as to whether the loans in question threaten the security of the country's supply, but one is definitely a company of vital importance for the country's energy security, namely the Bulgarian transmission network operator has been led to a degree of overindebtion by registering 2.57 billion. lv. commitments for 2020 and accounting loss. In view of this, the following questions arise: who are the guilty persons for the violations and for bringing the Company to such a debt, in particular what consequences does the Ministry for the Management of Bulgartransgaz, which is directly responsible, what measures will the Ministry for the Rescue of the Company seek? I hope you're familiar with the report I have in my hands anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u135	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Capon, I mentioned this report earlier. We are aware of the violations found there. This was the reason I wanted the resignation of the leadership of Bulgartransgaz. This is the responsibility that can be borne by a single management of a trading company. At the moment, the Supervisory Board of Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) felt that my request was unfounded, so the question remains pending. This was the reason why I asked for the resignation, i.e. to decide to remove the management of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which did not take any part in the issue of this report. So what I'm doing right now is moving... [[Reply from MP Maria Kapon.]] Healing will happen with a new guide that knows what he's doing. The healing of Bulgartransgaz is, after all, a transport operator with a two-tier management structure, with relatively serious independence, the Ministry is not the object that will make a plan for the recovery of the commercial company Bulgartransgaz. This is an exceptional work of the management and of the Bulgarian Energy Holding as a principal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u137	Thank you. We are now moving on to the second issues related to the activities of the Ministry of Energy and BEH. There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u138	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I have one question with two questions. Why aren't the free capacities of the US power plants included, as we know they appear as backups for the system? My second question is: wasn't it delayed, exactly delayed is the right word, the inclusion of the three blocks of the TPP Maritsa East at the expense of the TPP Varna? And my third question is, did you bother to check who was enriched by speculatively high stock prices?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u139	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, Members of the Parliament? I've already had the opportunity to say that the U.S. power plants are not currently operating two blocks that are being renovated. One of the units is in construction until the 14th, so now on Saturday, it's coming in... at 0.000, on Sunday, it's going into operation, and the other block is going into operation, and the 29th. I also had the opportunity to tell you that, yes, the inclusion of the thermal power plant Maritsa East 2 is very slow. This is not for technological reasons, but for reasons, because this is how the TPP management reacted despite the insistence, but it is a fact and this has happened delayed. I didn't bother to see which dividend he took out of whether the blocks were delayed or not. I'm telling you the facts. What we've done is turn on the blocks. It's a slow turn-on. This is the situation at the moment I can tell you, nothing more. However, the delay was exceptional due to the leadership of the TPP Maritza East 2 As here the Bulgarian Energy Holding did not participate in the process at all, he said it was a financial holding company and that he looked with concern at the situation that is happening in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u141	Thank you. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Service Minister of Energy, because you mentioned several times in relation to the TPP Maritza East 2...................... that the management acted slowly, come on now, if you please answer us how have you acted as Minister of Energy in an extremely important process related to the activities of the Ministry, in general with the entire energy sector? And if we solve this issue, which I will now put to you, we may stop talking about these fracking prices of electricity in Bulgaria, and this is precisely the topic related to the full liberalisation of the wholesale electricity market. By 12 May this year, this negotiation process with the European Commission, so that we can get a capacity mechanism and coal plants to be able to work normally, to have liquidity, to be adequate to the situation, we were at the final of these negotiations. Would you say what you have done and what stage the negotiations are at now, have you completed them and have you fulfilled the conditions that the European Commission has set so that we can obtain a capacity mechanism and that these conversations that we are having now related to the price of electricity are very, very rare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u143	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u144	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Petkova, this was also the topic of your question for parliamentary control, which will take place today, most likely. Regarding how far you have led the negotiations on full market liberalisation and that on 12 May they were in the final phase, I hear it now from you and understood it from your question so, but I did not understand it when I accepted the position from you. [[Reply from the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova.]] I'll continue with the answer. You say that on 12 May you have reached the final of these negotiations, the final phase, only on 25 May, I think it was, a letter came from the European Commission which is not at all your opinion, because there are 20 pages of recommendations that need to be implemented in order to achieve liberalisation. And the main ones in them you know very well who the contracts with the US power plants, which have gone nowhere, are led by the Ministry of Finance, with the participation of the Ministry of Energy, and that there is no regulated market. What exactly is the final phase of these two points? The negotiations? Yeah. Well now, by implementing these 20-page recommendations that they have sent us, we can say that we have come close to the final phase of the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u145	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u146	Dear Minister, one clarification. When I just said that the football team of Zhivko Todorov was appointed to the Maritsa East 2 I'll give you the names of the football players on this team. Please check which of them are appointed because this is how Bulgarian energy is managed by personal appointments of friends, brothers-in-laws, brothers-in-laws and so on. If there is no such thing, I will apologize from this tribune; if there is a public of Stara Zagora and Bulgaria should learn this thing. The theme of the Beroe (Beroe) is very delicate, please do not take any hasty action, because it is understandable that the Bulgarian people do not like that a plant that has 340 million. lv. last year's loss, lasted a team with a budget of 7 million. lv. last year, by the way, quite increased since the purchase of the team, in 2011, when its budget was only 2 million. BGN, now it's 7. But there, football is a religion, so I ask you to have a separate meeting about the fate of.................. Stara Zagora. I am moving on to the serious issue of energy prices. Dear Minister, when prices went up, European countries began to behave strangely and selfishly. In May, when we had to do the so-called capling at the same time as Greece and Romania, Romania said there was a software problem and postponed the capling to September. We have done nothing, we have contacted Greece, where pressure comes from at high prices, without being able to neutralize this pressure from the low prices of Northern Europe. Now Greece has announced technical reasons for reducing its capacity for energy exports, leaving energy in its own country, thus putting pressure on prices, and here is Greece for today is cheaper than Bulgaria, which rarely happens. My question here is where is ESO? What does the Electricity System Operator make for lower electricity prices in Bulgaria? And my second question is: we currently have a legal basis for mandatory supply of all electricity on the Bulgarian independent energy exchange, but there is no explicit regulation whether this should be on long-term, medium-term or short-term products.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u147	Your time, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u148	Naturally, manufacturers prefer short-term because they take a higher price. My question is: is the Ministry of Energy a strategy for offering long-term products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u149	Thank you. [[National Representative Manoil Manev wants the floor.]] Now you've challenged Mr. Manev, as he's been quiet all day, now he's on the stand. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u150	Madam President, I will pass your comments. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I won't go into the details of football, sports, does the gentleman there know who Stara Zagora's football teams are? I told him last time that the city's names didn't go to school, with GPS going to this town, but Minnie Maritsa East knows them well. Now, in the manner of conduct, please remind fellow Members who say that the declaration of conflict of interest is a very important element in the speeches. Because there are two other names, not the football teams of Stara Zagora, but [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] who buy, ever buy from somewhere electricity from the Mini Maritsa East, have sold them with overestimates whose they are, is there a link to the speaker explaining these things before asking questions about Stara Zagora, which he does not know where is on the map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u151	Thank you, Mr. Manev. That's why I said he challenged you just because I remembered what you had done yesterday, so that's why I addressed you. With regard to conflict of interest, it must not declare a conflict of interest, but a private interest in order to know where its interests are in the sector concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u152	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u153	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, regarding what you say about the restrictive regime, the cases in the Law are clear when a restrictive export regime may be imposed. They are when energy security is being compromised. In fact, we cases in which we can apply these clauses, we do not. So there is no option to limit the export of electricity because we risk, you very well know it, a series of criminal procedures. Your second question, if you could just remind me who it was? [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] For long-term products. At least it's the Ministry's job to make commercial strategies for commercial companies, it doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u155	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question concerns the model of the energy market in Bulgaria and in particular the monopoly of the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange. Mr. Minister, with the changes in the Energy Act in 2018, all electricity producers in Bulgaria were obliged to sell all the energy produced only on an organised stock market or in particular on the platform of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. The measure was also protected as prevention against corruption practices in state-owned energy companies in contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity. Secondly, as an instrument for creating liquidity on the recently established energy exchange in Bulgaria. Such concentration of supply, naturally, also concentrated demand by large energy consumers from electricity traders. In mid-June, Mr. Minister, unilaterally and surprisingly on the part of the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange changed the rules for working on the most liquid market platform for bilateral contracts. The trade of long-term products with deviations was stopped. There was no formal explanation, but unofficially it became clear that the change was made after the factors indicated by external to the Exchange. Thus, from the middle of last year, a huge part of the electricity market offered by the Bulgarian independent energy exchange is traded on the market segment day forward, where large business consumers and electricity traders are forced to buy the necessary quantities. Thus, the established electricity market system in Bulgaria broadcasts a signal to consumers and to the largest electricity supplier for state-owned energy companies. This is the absurd situation of the state, which is the dominant owner of the production capacity and the only electricity market in Bulgaria, to create a prerequisite for speculation on the electricity market. Mr. Minister, my question to you is: is this model of the electricity market successful? So organised, does it create security of supply and predictability of the prices of economic consumers? In this regard, the Commission's recommendations on the protection of competition of February 2020 to improve the concentration of the electricity market have been taken into account in the analysis of the current crisis in the electricity market, including the recommendation for dropping the obligations for producers to offer the entire production of electricity to the Bulgarian independent energy market as a mandatory wholesale energy market channel? My last question to you, Minister, is...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u157	Your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u158	...do you intend to propose a change in the Energy Act for dropping the monopoly of the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u159	Thank you. Please, the Members of the National Assembly are disciplined and comply with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u160	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A moment ago in the exhibition to one of my questions, I said that on the Rules of Employment of the Energy Exchange it is necessary to work. With regard to the fact that the Energy Exchange is one in Bulgaria, there are recommendations from the European Commission, which also encourage that there should be competition and that the Exchange should not be one. As you know, these are things that could develop under a regular government, with a parliament behind them, because it is not serious for the caretaker government to expect solutions to some strategic problems, and in a short period of action. In this regard, I expect the next government, which will be regularly broadcast by Parliament, with strong support behind it, to be able to do all the things that you have set out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u161	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we are now on to the final questions. Of course, we will give our opinion on your answers regarding the two issues that we are debating today. To complete the overall picture, even though so far we've only received answers that you don't know and you have no idea. [[Laughter at GERB]] You, if you have entered deeper into the overall Energy Development Strategy, for which you just said that the Ministry is not responsible, but art. 5 of the Law and you should know that the Energy Act is a specialized law. The law obliges you that you are responsible for the overall policy and strategy for the development of energy in Bulgaria, without making a difference whether it is a commercial company or a private enterprise. My question is: Do you think that the unaccepted legal amendments from previous national meetings related to the liberalisation of wholesale production have affected the punctuations in the price of electricity, especially in recent months? Based on all your answers we will build an opinion on your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u163	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u164	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atalay, I have not said that we have no relation to the Energy Strategy, and the question was... to trade strategies regarding long-term auctions. That was Mr. Kadyev's question. That's why I responded to the strategy is the work of the Ministry. Regarding liberalisation, I said again, in order to achieve full liberalisation, there are recommendations from the European Commission, which arrived at the Ministry at the end of May and which should be worked on. The main points are the termination of US power plants contracts and the lack of a regulated market. To achieve full liberalisation there is much more work to be done. I doubt that within a government office this could be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Stand Up БГ!? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u166	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! In the last few days, we have only become convinced of the primary importance and the work of TPP-2. I also have a question, but first the main one: are you familiar and are we currently paying for the emissions that generate the work of the U.S. TPPs? About TPP-2 I want to ask the question: do you have a vision of how we can predict the work of the TPP by buying futures options and to ensure at least in the near future the work, and hence more fixed, or within the framework of the price of electricity, as we have been convinced that without these steps and without the intervention of the state TPP-2 the price cannot be regulated freely on the market. To Mr. Kadyev. Yes, what you mentioned about the presence of football players not in the government, but at the TPP there is this moment, but I don't think this is the biggest problem of TPP-2. The problem of TPP-2 is precisely ensuring in the long term the future and the development of the plant by buying futures to ensure this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u167	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It was for these futures products that we had conversations with TPP-2 because, if this had happened when emissions prices were lower, now the TPP would be working at maximum profit. There's no such practice. If we achieve such success, it would be good, the plant would work even better. But this is mandatory from the point of view that emissions prices are expected to grow. If the plant does not make such futures transactions, it risks, after a certain time, going back into a state in which it cannot cover its costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this, we end up asking questions and moving towards expressing attitude towards the answer to the hearing person. On behalf of the "There is such a people"? Here you go, Mr. Hinoski. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u170	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zhivkov, I would like to express an attitude towards the information presented by you on the basis of my request for a hearing. I'd like to share the controversial assessment of what we've heard. It is clear that you are placed in an enemy environment of isolation, of boycotting by companies and, of course, that it is very difficult for you. As we can see, you cannot fire the leadership of any of the companies responsible for the crises. You've correctly identified where the underlying causes are. These are in BEH and in Bulgartransgaz, but I see that a new leadership is clearly needed, with a new mandate to achieve it. However, I am dissatisfied that I have heard nothing about this worrying document with the destruction of documentation. You said you didn't know, but I sent that question 10 days ago. It would be right for you to take an interest in BTG if they were to do so, these are abuses. According to the State Archives, I have consulted you, they are obliged to inform you of everything that is being destroyed. The answer is unacceptable that you do not know what is being done about the gas connection with the complex - Maritsa East - which has fallen from the Sustainability and Development Plan. I know what Pekanov's main arguments were, it was difficult to prove that there would be minimal environmental damage, it cannot be paid back in the period until 2030, when these funds actually had to prove that they had been recovered, i.e. that they had been realised. There is a need for greater entrepreneurship in this regard, because other countries have done so. For us, this connection, especially the pipeline with the Maritsa East, is extremely important for the complex of the Maritsa East. It's extremely important! It is also important that we ignore that it is private and with the TPP - Bobov dol. Because there are also people, Bulgarian engineers and specialists working there. He at a certain stage dropped out of discussion at all because he was of private interest. Energy has no private and state interests, there is public interest. Thank you. That's where I stop. On the second subject separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u171	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. On behalf of GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u172	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Minister of Energy, I have heard your answers and I must tell you that to any of the questions asked I personally could not hear an answer that would be adequate and give a complete information on the topics that were asked. The only thing in which you were very persuasive were the data and information related to your actions to release the Board of Directors of certain companies in energy, your requests for this, without, of course, whether it is lawful or not. Since today the topic is related to the planned state of Bulgartransgaz and I have asked the question what it is at this time, you have not been able to answer. I just want to say that so that Bulgarian citizens can understand "Bulgartransgaz" on 30 June 2021 is at a net profit of 55 million. lv. The revenue of the Bulgarian authorities is public, it is on the site and can be seen, the revenue as of 30 June 2021 is 242 million. lv. In comparison to 2020 for the same period, the revenue was then 196 million. BGN, that is, we have growth in revenue. "Bulgartransgaz" does not have a single left overdue debt. There is no suspended project related to its activities due to a lack of funding. In other words, what Bulgarian citizens need to know is that Bulgartransgaz is in excellent financial health and any attempts to suggest that the project "Balkan brook" worsens the financial parameters of Bulgar transgaz is a big bubble. But Bulgarian citizens will not succumb to such provocation, because when facts and numbers speak, all other arguments are irrelevant. Regarding the topic related to the important documents for the Balkan Stream. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that all documents related to the realization of the project "Balkan Stream" - the expansion of the infrastructure in Bulgaria are those documents drawn up in the Ministry of Energy, deposited in the Council of Ministers, in the National Assembly. I ask you very much to read the decision of the National Assembly of 22 December 2018, promulgated on this date in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 101. In this decision of the National Assembly, adopted, by the way, with complete unanimity, without a single vote, the answers to all these questions that you are looking for are given. No road maps and no conspiracies trying to get into this whole thing. Everything is written in writing in black and white in official documents.. my report to the Council of Ministers, a report from the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly, a decision of the National Assembly, a financial justification approved by the Ministry of Finance, which is an integral part of the documentation. You will find the answer to all these questions, just time is extremely small to get into these details. With regard to the KEWRC, because several times it has been mentioned that "Bulgartransgaz" has committed violations related to the regulatory framework, let us clarify the following: the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, because, Mr. Minister, you could not reply to the colleague as to whether there is such a decision of the Regulator, there is such a solution and it is from December 2018. He is aware of all the information related to the project, including the financial parameters of the project, including financing, including what part will be his own funding, what part will be capitalised. And the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with this decision has expressed no doubt and concern about the liquidity of the Bulgartransgaz. On the contrary, a rate of return has been set, the necessary annual revenue is determined to ensure payment of this project within 10 years and 5 months. This is the period for which the project will be paid. And because your colleagues asked you about what revenues are expected and you could not answer, the revenues expected from these two contracts are over 9 billion. lv. Regarding another very important topic, which I would like to address in my own regard, and because it did not come up, it is that the project "Balkan Stream" - honourable colleagues - did not comment on it - is only part of the concept of Bulgaria to transform it into a gas hub in the territory of the Balkans. [[Laughter]] This is a project related to the realization of other projects related to the security of supply and diversification of sources: the interconnector And something else very important. When we talk about diversification, honourable colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" because you somehow referred to what is being done earlier, I mean, going back in time that there is not a single government that has done more for diversification of sources and routes for natural gas supply in Bulgaria by the governments of Prime Minister Borisov. I can talk by dates about what we've done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u173	The road map!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u174	On December 10th, the investment decision for the construction of the interconnector was made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u175	The road map!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u176	This decision marks the beginning of the construction of this project. When some are trying to say that 12 years is being built the interconnector "Greece" - Bulgaria, colleagues, this is not the case!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u177	The road map!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u178	The interconnector - Greece - Bulgaria - is only part of another big project. This is the South Gas Corridor project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u179	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u180	There's no way the gas is going...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u181	Mrs. Petkova, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u182	...from Azerbaijan, without any other project being built, which is the Transatlantic gas pipeline. It became a fact on 1 January 2021. So all that has been done in the field of diversification is within the governments of Prime Minister Borisov, however disliked by someone. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u183	Thank you. From BSP?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u184	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The missing road map we were looking for with you is probably a metaphor for the missing or lost road of Bulgarian energy, unfortunately [[Laughter]] .. lost, in the sense of an element of national security, which will be a driving force for socio-economic development. [[Reply.]] In that way, in a positive way. The metaphor is expressed not only by this visualization, but also by several facts. Firstly, that our country is already part of a transnational transmission network, but at the same time less than 3% of the population, as I told you, has access to gas infrastructure. Second, that there are stored nuclear reactors that are stored wrapped on a site for which the dynamics site over the years was from the pride of the national site of Bulgaria, as it became a göl and back to the energy pearl of the Balkans, including the fact that there is an effective judgment sanctioning Bulgaria with a significant amount. This metaphor is also expressed in the fact that, in the territory of this very country, which we are talking about, the Maritsa East complex has a share in the total contribution to the European plan of sulphur dioxide emissions at nearly 60% and at the same time, although the share of the complex "Maritsa East" as contribution to sulphur dioxide emissions is so high, that same country has done nothing through the capacity mechanism, through the mechanism for a fair transition, even at the moment and during the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Not to mention our modest reflexes on the Green Pact, which to most of the parties sounds quite virtual. Last but not least, 20 years ago Bulgaria was the pillar, the pillar, the main energy supplier within the Balkans, not to say Eastern Europe, and now it is the country where in two months, on a 2-month basis, the price of electricity can rise by 80%. My fellow Members, this is why, from such hearings, from such debate, from such questions and the participation of ministers, we have an extremely high benefit and I would once again like to thank you for everything we have heard here. Because it was presented, firstly, within the limits of the powers of the current minister of service, secondly, on the basis of the information it has available. But we need to be aware of the following: that we have not done our job with this far away, and if from these snapshots, instant responses, instant hearings one day with you we do not get to who is the sustainable energy mix for Bulgaria, which are the competitive advantages of Bulgarian energy so that it brings economic and social benefits, you and I will not have done our job. This is the big talk, this is the long talk. Thank you once again to the Minister and to the leadership of the National Assembly and to the colleagues for this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u185	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Dimitrov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u186	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I am also grateful that there was a hearing on this subject, although the answers deserve serious additional attention from now on. I want to start with this. For 10 years, honourable colleagues from GERB were built the Suez Canal with a length of 164 km, in 1869, and a depth of 8 m, and in 10 years you could not make the connection with Greece. Is this your diversification for 10 years? [[Applause from IBGNI, SG.]] Note, however, that when it came to the so-called Russian-Turkish flow, as we of.. Democratic Bulgaria.................................! [[Applause from IBGNI, SG.]] You built it in a year! [[Applause from IBGNI, SG.]] However, where the real diversification is, 10 years did not reach. And 10 years didn't last because it wasn't willing to be done! So, sorry, don't talk to us about diversification just like you! You didn't want to, and you didn't do anything! That's the reality. Period! That's the truth. And with that, your government will remain. Another is the question, Mr. Minister, that I have asked a special written question, or it may be an oral question to you: the Greek link should be completed by the end of the year. In a statement to the media you talk about delay, lack of parts, only be careful that their parts for 10 years, GERB could not find them. Maybe the parts are at the road map. [[Laughter]] So make sure you don't start missing the parts. It has to be done by the end of the year, and even if there's a delay, it has to be a few months. Also the next very important question. There are agreed serious quantities of Azerbaijani gas. I see that there is no desire from the previous management that this Azerbaijani gas is to be purchased, it can also be purchased through virtual and swap transactions. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Small quantities have been bought so far for information from the Members of the National Assembly who are calling from the Chamber. Unsatisfactory small quantities and this is targeted, again to be dependent on one supplier. If we draw the line, after 10 years of management of GERB Bulgaria is the most dependent on one natural gas supplier throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u187	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u188	The most dependent on one supplier!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u189	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u190	The most dependent is Bulgaria. This is after 10 years of management of GERB! [[Applause from IBGNI, SG.]] For Azerbaijani gas, there is an option for it to be bought. Now, if you are told that this cannot be done because there is a take or pay clause and you need 80% of Russian gas to be purchased, to keep in mind the following thing So this is cheaper gas, let there be competition, let there be diversification. Mr. Minister, there is no need for such excuses, there is no telling how long your government will last, so start thinking medium-term and realize these things. You are the government at the moment, no matter what happens today, tomorrow, there must be progress on all these issues, there must be real diversification. In the end, what do you get? Dear natural gas stops economic development because, apart from the fact that the industry currently consumes expensive electricity, consumes expensive natural gas, and that is what we get and people ask, ask the question: why Bulgaria does not then absorb the more profitable Azerbaijani gas for which there are contracts, why, besides that we are subject to expensive electricity now, should we pay expensive natural gas? That is what people are asking, and you can make serious progress on this issue, even though there are sabotages from certain sectors that do not want to work on it. When it comes to the theme of the work done and the management of TPP 2, I would ask you, the whole business asks: why is the TPP 2 so late in power, so that the price is so high, provided that the KEWRC has written an explicit solution for them when the price is above 220 BGN, they are covered both the constant and variable costs and you can work on profit immediately? But people still haven't done their job. Therefore, in this situation, other people should be placed there, but professionals who can protect the public interest and do their job. This has to stop from happening. Because at the moment, the whole business in Bulgaria is in a shit-load of sewing companies claim that at these electricity prices they are forced to limit their work, large enterprises claim that they are forced to limit their work, business organizations write letters and say: what is going on. People don't see, Mr. Minister, that these are commercial companies that someone hasn't done this for, someone else hasn't done otherwise, they're looking for responsibility here in Parliament and in you. So whoever didn't do his job, objectively, to be replaced, but this can't happen anymore. And the other very important issue from October 1st Bulgaria should be related to the Romanian market for the..... day ahead.......................................................................................... There's no excuse for this not to happen. Let, if there is a delay, not like GERB 10 years, but a week. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u191	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u192	Thank you. Dear Minister, Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, of course, you have no fault at all and you are not responsible for the responsibility that must be borne by all those who engage in energy until your appointment. In those two months, you could not have done anything but try to identify the problems, to try in any way to make decisions, if there were gaps, to be faced, but you had aimed at perhaps more, how and how to clear the experts managing businesses than dealing with the problems of businesses. I just want to tell you two sentences. In Bulgarian energy, there are very few specialists. If there are some specialists who have not done their job, and if you listen to these politicians who have been talking to you all the time about sabotage, about sabotage, the question arises: how many politicians have sabotaged the overall strategy of energy development? Then no politician will stand up to answer and tell you: I am, but a great deal of those present in this House can recognize this. As for the development of Bulgartransgaz and the gas network in Bulgaria, we missed the opportunity to become really that country, through which large quantities of gas can be transited, on the basis of which we can earn much more than those that are currently earning Bulgartransgaz, according to your report and the report on the website of Bulgartransgaz, show that they have good reports. Bulgartransgaz's decision to build this pipe to Serbia and from there to contact the European gas network with Baumgarten is the best solution for Bulgaria, colleagues. Because think that a day has come when we can get gas back from Europe, if it is not disserfication. And on top of that, we can send gas through this pipe to Romania, to Ukraine. These days will come, colleagues, don't be narrow-minded, don't just look at things from the bell tower of Yes or No Bulgaria. There is such a people and so on. I'm shutting down the gas. Once again, I tell you there are enough experts, especially the directors of the only enterprises, the only Director, given by the NPP "Kozloduy", by reaching the last enterprise. "Maritsa TPP East 2", to know that they are experts and give politicians not to interfere in their work, to give them the strategy, to sit down and to work. A few words about the price of electricity. Colleagues, we are not all junk here, Madam President, what you said, and I wonder how you manage junk here today, we are people who have made very serious decisions. I will tell you many times we have not made serious decisions. Here's where I'll introduce you. [[shows]] The bill, which I have tabled, together with the work of the experts and GERB, and the non-governmental organizations, where Mr. Hinovski has participated, for the liberalisation of wholesale production. If December had made the liberalisation of wholesale production, Mrs. Petkova would have been authorised for the capacity mechanism and now TPP 2 would have had the capacity mechanism, but then I will not say that Mr. Hinoski and everyone else jumped out of fear that the US power plants would be shut down. No, they wouldn't have been closed! They would have been finished. The negotiations with them and one had to give us back 300 million, the others we owe about 400 million, they want billion and 200 million, but these negotiations would have ended and now, colleagues, we would only have a regulated market for the energy poor. Today you would not be issuing an order and talking to TPP 2 with TPP Varna and TPP Bobovdol and the NPP as they would be on the free market, they would be competitive, having the capacity mechanism that we couldn't get without this law, today we wouldn't have these high prices. If anyone comes out and disproves me, come out and say it. Nothing else happens in our energy except the intervention of politicians and NGOs to protect the interests of Bulgarian energy. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, you won't have time to go deep into things, it's not your fault, but there are people who have been dealing with energy for a long time. Mr. Ivan Hinofsky's declaration, which he presented to us here, is a good foundation on which we can sit down and discuss further the development of energy. But in order for energy to develop, we shouldn't call ourselves junk in this room. Can you call it that? Maybe, but you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u193	Mr. Atalay, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u194	Thank you. I don't know about my time, but I think some people are out of time, but energy is coming. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u195	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u196	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for your presence in the Chamber. Personally, I expected more personal treatment with full clarity that in two months no one could have done it all. No one had such expectations for you, I suspect. However, answers that say that good managers can do a good job sound a little monarchic to me. If we happen to a good child, well, if we happen to a bad child, what are we going to do, where are the rules? We were actually looking for the rules here, starting with Mr. Hinosky and continuing with the following questions. Perhaps the rules are to be made after all and there is a clear structure of governance in energy. I am a little skeptical about when we will export gas to Ukraine, but rather we all see that this project of Russia surrounds Ukraine for political reasons and we are cooperating on this. "Turkish stream" or "Bulgarian stream" or "Russian stream" as you want us to call it, for most of us it is clear that it is the new South Stream "Same characters," the same route, one miracle stopped at Oresharski, the other continued with Borisov. There is only one least common multiple between the two projects and the least common multiple usually in Bulgaria is shortened by who?! However, we have had a change from South Stream. "Bulgartransgaz" became its operator of the network, but now he has become overly indebted. Whatever we talk about, this will have an impact on the country's energy security and, of course, on gas prices for business and consumers in Bulgaria. Because it is they who will have to pay these debts, which are incurred in the execution of an economically unsuccessful project under the protection of GERB, a project that never disserates the gas sector, because the disserfication of the routes is not a disserfication of the sources. We built one of our favorite highways and allowed only Russian trucks to travel on it, waiting from tolls to get some left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u197	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. That concludes today's hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u198	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u199	But there is no such thing, Mrs. Capon! Read that rule book for real. It is written in the Rules of Procedure: The Parliamentary Groups have the right to express their attitude towards the answers of the persons heard within five minutes after asking all the questions and had to express your attitude within the double time 10 minutes. [[Replications from the MPs Maria Kapon and Delyan Dobrev.]] Well, that's right! This is the third time we've had a third week hearing. [[Reply from MP Maria Kapon.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u200	Madam President, since I was the initiator of this procedure in quotes...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u201	You've got the wrong...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u202	...I would like to note that the relationship was five minutes, not 10 minutes, as you said. First thing in the morning, we agreed to double the attitude once for the gas and once for the electricity. That means five minutes for the gas and then five minutes for the electricity, so now we have to start the attitude on the subject of electricity.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u203	Mr. Dobrev, the attitude must be common to the entire hearing. The hearing is one thing. You don't have two hearings, you don't have separate hearings. If you want to use your time, we can rewind the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u204	Yeah, give five more minutes to each of the groups so they can really make it 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u205	We'll compromise, okay. Mr. Dobrev, then we will compromise for you and turn the procedure today in view of the great interest in the hearing. Mr. Hinosky, you confused the entire hearing today with asking very different questions in one hearing. Please, the next time you place and submit a hearing, follow the Rules. Here you go, Mr. Hinoski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable colleagues, I will combine.. in addition to attitude, I will use to give an answer to my speech, to my mention by Mr. Ramadan Atalay about their bill................................ of the Energy Act....................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u207	Will you be expressing your attitude right now, or is it Mr. Atalay's personal explanation? Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u208	Combined within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u209	Enough with the combinations, Mr. Hinosky!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u210	Yeah, five minutes. Mr. Atalay, your law is very good, your law is good, but it is not feasible, because in this room there is a secret silence about the secret condition that no politician wants to mention. The first condition that the European Commission asks Bulgaria before the implementation of the Capacity Mechanism is started, the first condition is: specify the date of closure of...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u211	Mr. Hinosky, you express your attitude to the Minister, not to Mr. Atalay. Please............................................................................................. 110 of the
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u212	Okay, but this is part... In your information, thank you very much for it, there are a number of important things missing. I understand, you don't have time. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is an extremely important period for forming a new strategy, a new doctrine on the development of Bulgarian energy and it is not based on the current structure of generating capacities. In this regard, I would like to say why it is cheaper energy in Germany and in the Czech Republic because, ladies and gentlemen, it is already green in its vast part. It's not loaded with emissions what we're running from. We can't help but realize that for us, a construction plant is still a maritsa east. We have to make sure that this complex keeps its jobs, but the electricity goes green! We must release electricity production in Bulgaria from the weight of carbon emissions. We have a plan and you will soon be witnesses of this. We will introduce a bill in which we will provide those working in the Complex - Maritsa East and the TPP - Maritsa East - with certainty that they will keep their jobs, but in greener production. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u213	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u214	Two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u215	Two and a half minutes. Okay. Congratulations, Mr. Hinoski. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am personally not pleased with your answers. All this time you've been telling us how the power plant can really work in eight hours, but it's taken you days and weeks to convince the director of the power plant or the director of the NEC that they have to do their job. You are Minister of Energy in Bulgaria, you stand in the highest chair in the management of state energy and if you can't get a company director to do his job, I don't know who can? So I asked you if you had made a crisis headquarters, because if you had made one, then you would not be the only one involved, your deputy ministers and directors of other companies, and in this crisis headquarters, decisions would be made that would be binding on the directors of the companies in question. And I repeat, the directors of TPP 2 and the management of NEK. In a moment I will tell you why NEK's management, because the management of NEK somehow passed between the drops in today's debate, and it is at least half the problem of high electricity prices. I mean, it took me a long time because I couldn't convince them, it's not serious! If you can't convince them and they don't do what the minister says, you should have, not the employers, sent a signal to the prosecutor's office. And not only to the prosecution, but also to the KEWRC, and to all other authorities of the state that are relevant to this issue. I want to use the rest of my time to tell you exactly what the problem is, which we have been talking about all day and to make it clear to the Bulgarian society. Since the beginning of August until now the price of electricity in France is 70.17 euros; in Germany is 79.01 euros and in Bulgaria, notice, it is 124.48 euros. In left, this is 137 in France, 154 in Germany and 243 BGN. in Bulgaria. In other words, the electricity in Bulgaria is almost twice as high as electricity in France and in Germany, countries with far higher standards than the Bulgarian and with far more developed economies. Where does this problem come from? This problem comes from the fact that the state power plant 2 and NEK are not doing their job. I'm saying it from this tribune, clearly aware of what I'm saying. In July the state TPP 2 worked with only 19.44% of its capacity less than 20%! Accordingly, from 1 August to 10 August, it worked at 29% or less than 30% of its capacity. These unloaded 80% in July and 70% in August, with the average prices for July and August, I will tell you them for July the average exchange price is BGN 185,59.; for August this price is 244,79 BGN, notice, the cost of TPP 2 " 220 BGN." This means that for each megawatt hour produced in August TPP 2 is at a profit of 24,79 BGN, but this has not happened for at least five years. The question is: why, when the prices are so high that the state power plant can even profit from coal, pays its quotas, pays its wages, pays the coal, all the other costs and is at a profit of BGN 25, this TPP does not work? And I'll give you an example: in August these 70% unloaded capacity of TPP 2 times 1630 megawatts in TPP, on 24,79 лв. That'll be $28,000. £285. Thirty thousand leva an hour could have won this TPP since August 1st. I'll say it again: $30,000. lv. It's an hour's worth of profit. Profit, no less loss! And for July, the full cost is 220 BGN and the price is below BGN 185,59, that is, there is no way to make a profit in July. But at the same time the variable costs of TPP 2 are 180 BGN. Every normal economist in this room knows you have to work on variable costs because that's how you shrink or pay some of the fixed costs, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u217	Time, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u218	I'm so sorry. So, in July, TPP 2 would reduce its loss by 8,000 BGN. every hour this month! And one last sentence because I mentioned NEK, and somehow I ignored it. The two U.S. power plants are run by the NEK unit, and the threesome. Their price is a two-component price for energy and cost for availability. The cost of availability is the one that is paid whether it works or not, i.e. it pays it anyway. The price of energy in one plant is 192 BGN and in the other plant is 169 BGN. These plants worked 54% in July and 43% in August. So these plants didn't work either. Why aren't the plants working and why don't they make money?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u219	Mr. Dobrev, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u220	Final. I would like to say that the situation is caused by mismanagement of energy, not by any legacy from the past other structural problems. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u221	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. From the BSP for Bulgaria? You don't. We are continuing with the Democratic Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u222	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, you realize that these letters you receive from all business organizations are received by us. At the moment the situation is extremely nervous and people are worried because the high price of electricity is burdening these businesses, some of them have limited their work, others are threatening to do it and the situation is really not pleasant. You can't let that happen! In one of its positions, such a business organization directly asks the question about: the private economy is a private economy, but why is TPP 2 working at a reduced capacity at this crisis point? And you know, there's a full check to be done here, to clarify the facts and circumstances, because they're doubles. On the one hand, the TPP has explicit instructions.. When the price is above 220 BGN, they work for profit and should not even wait for your instructions. Because of this decision of the KEWRC they could have fully loaded themselves and started working without waiting for instructions from you, and you say that you have also made instructions and request for inclusion. Note that this situation of August is at risk of affecting both economic growth and gross added value and industrial production. Therefore, it is important to check who at TPP 2 has not done their job, and also why US power plants exactly in August and July are not fully loaded. An important addition to the current debate, the more the so-called U.S. power plants work, the less availability needs to be paid. So it makes sense at these high prices to work more and work further. However, what will make a lasting decision not to have major fluctuations in prices is the connection to the Romanian exchange and hence to the European Union's exchanges with most of them, for the 'Day forward' segment. There's progress, there's progress. I told you that since October 1st there is every reason for this to happen and there really should be no delay here, because if such connectivity existed, such large fluctuations in prices should not arise. In this sense, connection with the Romanian energy exchange is a more important issue than that with the Greek, which I hope will be completed with your participation and cooperation, because the Bulgarian business should not be more likely to have what happened to it in August. Finally, I would like to use my remaining time to pay attention to the missing documents and, above all, the Gazprom Road map for the development of the transmission network. Mr. Minister, please consider the following: what do you think would be more beneficial in terms of the reputation of the state, as a minister, to ask for it or a group of members of the Energy Commission to send a letter to Gazprom that we want a copy of it? Next Wednesday, the Energy Commission will be established, and I and my colleagues are already ready to make such a request. We will see whether it will be a position of the Commission, and it can also be a position of individual MEPs, members of the Energy Committee, it is not clear from now on, but it will happen either. I think it is purely reputational for you to ask for a copy of this roadmap as Minister of Energy. And all those who told me that it didn't matter... A colleague of mine told me from this tribune: "What do you expect to see in this road map?" Important things, very important things we expect to see. For example, we expect to see if the name "Balkan brook" exists at all. For example, we expect to see if the name "Balkan brook" exists at all. We want to know what additional commitments Bulgaria may or may not have undertaken; we want to know about that one billion dollars, which were not requested by the previous gas contract. There, in this road map, is there anything about that, is there not? These are all very important questions, Mr. Minister, so you decide. If I were you, and I believe that most of these people, if they were you, would have asked for a copy of the Road map from Gazprom." That's how it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u223	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks for the extra five minutes. Dear Minister! Mrs. Petkova, give me that card. Give me this card, because the question of the name arises. The person's name is a very important thing... we have experienced it on our backs. But whether the name of a project is Turkish, Gerberan or Balkan is not as important as the revenues that will come from this project. I don't know how and how to explain to my colleagues that connecting us to Europe, if it isn't diversification, if you get gas from Europe, you understand that it is Russian gas again across Europe, if it isn't diversification, if we don't make it so that we can connect the pipe so that we can export gas to Macedonia, because of your last spills and spitting of the projects, it turns out that the Greeks will also take our Macedonian market if we don't go into the Romanian market and the Ukrainian market, if all that's going to happen is not diversification?! Dear colleagues, if for you diversification is only the implementation of the American gas delivery project from Alexandroupolis, where we are also involved, I do not accept it. If you want to write a letter to Putin for this card, write it wherever you want, but let's sit down and talk it over. What is related to Bulgarian energy requires a very serious attitude. All the other free writings are out of this room. Because of these free writings, because of Boyko Borisov's intervention in all projects in the energy sector, not because of the energy specialists who still have Bulgaria's energy in their hands for one reason or another, we have reached this point. And apropo, Mr. Hinoski left, the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the Movement for Rights and Freedom is applicable because Europe is now telling us: give a date for closing and decarbonization of your coal mines so that we do not give you. The last thing that comes from Europe is a 55% reduction in emissions. Why do you lie to the miners in the Maritsa East that they will be miners and swallow the mercury and dust with us all the time? Why not find one on the left, on the right, from the middle to sit down and tell these people: a billion and 200 million there is in the Fair Transition Program to enable you to increase the business capacity of small businesses to move to the Green Transition. Now Mr. Hinoski has thought of the Green Energy and the Green Transition. Why don't you insist that the pipe you have to drive to coal plants, coal regions is not to Varna to be able to transport hydrogen? Why don't you work for the energy of Bulgaria? Why don't we make the liberalisation of the market and why don't we give the closing date of the mines to get this capacity mechanism so that Mr. Delyan Dobrev doesn't read to us that we would have won 8 thousand a day and 30 thousand we've lost? With US power plants with capacity and non-negotiable new conditions every day we lose, colleagues. But when you get a phone call from some power stations, you sing the song here, Mr. Dimitrov. Bulgaria's energy is a serious thing. It should not be left in the hands of politicians alone. Politicians are the people who will arrange the yard, they will give the strategy, we will take the opinion of the experts and experts, because the last thing you are trying to bring in, and the nuclear power plant there is the management of the directors and the entire management staff at my age, and I am the youngest. Colleagues, Mr. Minister, you've been in the energy for a long time, stand here not with the answer I don't know. Stand up and say: I know what state the energy is in. What you've done so far is not enough, but it's done and let's see what we can build from here. What are we gonna upgrade? We're afraid to tell the miners to retrain themselves. Mr. Dobrev and I have other calculations, he didn't say them because he also kept the electorate as Boyko Borisov expected 70,000 people if they would vote from...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u225	The weather, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u226	...from Stara Zagora... Am I out of time again?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u227	It's over.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u228	Dear colleagues, last sentence. If there is no investment, if we do not go with the directives that the European Union has drawn for us from 2007 to 2019, what the European Union is currently accepting is moving towards new innovations, investment in Green Energy, the revolution in the economy, if we do not, then be convinced that even the next junk comes here, you will still not be able to cope with energy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u229	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u230	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I can't say that I'm happy with the answers, I think the parliamentary group is also standing up BG! We're coming! But before that I would like to say that we are looking for another hub, Mr. Dimitrov knows, apart from the Road map, but as you can see, the love rust does not catch. The liberalisation of the electricity market has taken place not because of our readiness, but because of Bulgaria's obligation to transpose the new European Union directive on the electricity market and the expected reality has come true, for which everyone warned. As a result of the years during which GERB did not prepare Bulgarian energy, prices rose sharply and the Bulgarian business paid the price for the waste management. This is because GERB for years did not address the rising uncompetitiveness of the brands and that is why we are locked in having to pay for their expensive electricity so that we do not leave people out of work and without a transitional period for adaptation. On top of that, the behaviour of the state-owned TPP company Maritsa East 2 is unmarketable. And when I say "non-market" as if to aggravate the situation and despite its interest, while the market has a drastic need for electricity, they do not include, which you have explained very clearly today. Inexplicably sit passively under the direction of the appointed CEO of GERB. At the same time, I absolutely agree with Mr. Atalay every time you have private companies, they actively take on their role and have to work at maximum speed because the niche is created. And actively, of course, the TPP Varna and the TPP Maritsa 3 The question is: what about ESO, who is pressing the button there? What does ESO know and what does the Minister know? And we had time to prepare this liberalisation, we had time to realize that the liberalisation of the market, although ultimately favorable for business, the Bulgarian consumer and our economy at first glance could lead to initial fluctuations in the price. And we could have prepared measures to help both the business and the energy poor citizens of the country. But we didn't do it, just pile up debts and make appointments for our own people. And now, honourable Members, we will pay, because today it's not just the big businesses that pay, it's every hair salon that pays today. If by now his current has been 200 BGN, then now that the new contracts are up to 300, consider it. Thus, high electricity prices affect all legal entities and cafes and shops that are fully available on the free market as of 1 July. So we must make it clear to the Bulgarian citizens: if there is no real, serious governance, governance that is really for the energy of the future, and not with the appointments of the feeders of certain people that no one can remove, then we will pay. And the poor must and it is high time we found a way to make this social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. That concludes today's hearing. I hope you don't want to start over. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And since I see you're tireless, Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. List of written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 9 August to 12 August. Written answers from: - Minister of Energy Andrey Zhivkov on a question from Dimitar Yanev; - the Minister of the Environment and Leads Assen Lichev to a question from Bonka Vasileva; - Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov on a question from Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov on a question from Hristo Gazhev; - the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for European Fund Management Atanas Pekanov on a question from Petya Mihalevska; - the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov on a question from Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Service for Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova on a question from Stella Nikolova; - Minister of Defence Georgi Panayotov on a question from Stella Nikolova; - Minister of Culture Velislav Minekov on a question from Martin Dimitrov; - the Deputy Minister for Economic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Galab Donev on a question from Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov on a question from Nikolai Hadzhigenov; - Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov on a question from Elisaveta Belobradova; - Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov on a question from Mincho Hristov; - the Minister of the Environment and Leading Assen Lichev to a question by Stella Nikolova; - the Minister of the Environment and Leading Assen Lichev to a question from Yavor Bozhankov; - the Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov on a question from Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Work for Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova on a question from Denitsa Sacheva; - Minister of Economics Kiril Petkov on a question from Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov on a question from Stella Nikolova; - Minister of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova to a question from Nikolay Nankov; - Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov on a question from Vladimir Marinov; - Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov on a question from Elisaveta Belobradova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Georgi Todorov on a question from Maria Kapon; - the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Stefan Yanev to be asked by Mustafa Karadayi and Yordan Tsonev; - Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev on a question by Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid; - Minister of Energy Andrei Zhivkov on a request from Ivaylo Mirchev. We begin with Prime Minister Stefan Yanev. Mr. Babikan, please don't distract the Prime Minister and the Minister. I give the floor to the National Representative Mincho Hristov to develop the question to the Deputy Prime Minister Stefan Yanev about the fight against forest fires.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u232	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, my question was asked two weeks ago. Unfortunately, during these two weeks many fires occurred throughout the country, people died and two people died, one was burned. This cruel tragedy should make us think about all of us and our colleagues here, and you as the Council of Ministers, how to prevent such tragedies. All of us here, colleagues, owe it to the families of the fallen and to all those we see from the television screens who have lost their household and their livestock, everything they had. 15 years ago, I asked another prime minister why he bought, for example, two government planes, and not bought several helicopters and a fire extinguishing plane? Then I didn't get an answer. I personally spoke to my colleagues at the University of Lesotech, talked to forest officials and accepted what I would say to you as their request to solve these problems, which is actually something that concerns all of us. At the moment, firewear is urgently needed in Bulgaria. One such set costs 200 lv. Multiply it by 6,000 forest employees, multiply it by two for the volunteers who fight the fires, that's only 2.5 million. lv. High-speed SUVs are needed with tanks of half a ton. Each SUV, coworkers, is worth 100,000. lv. I will shortly ask Minister Petkov about a limousine, which a civil servant had allowed himself to buy for 400 thousand s at the moment, I think is being sold by the Development Bank. As far as I understand, there's an offer to give us three helicopters free of charge, I don't know if they are, but no one wants to take them because their maintenance is expensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u233	Your time is up, Mr. Christov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u234	I'm graduating. To put it bluntly, with an investment of about 7 million, Mr. Prime Minister, Bulgaria will save every year hundreds of thousands of acres of forests and huge material damage will be prevented for the Bulgarian citizens. Personally, I will do my best, and I call on my fellow Members to do so when the budget update is voted on, these amounts will fall into place. I await your opinion, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u235	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Prime Minister. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, I agree with you that the care for the health and property of the people, as well as for the forests and what we have for granted, every summer period is of particular importance and importance, given the situation that is related to both the hot weather and the specifics of the activities that are carried out both in forests and in agricultural areas. In this regard, the State has established over the years an organisation that, in general, involves the interaction of three departments. These are: the Ministry of Interior, respectively the leading National Service "Fire safety and protection of the population."The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this case, it is about the use of specific equipment, the helicopter with special equipment, and, of course, people, living power and equipment that help fire the terrain. This interaction, especially in the winter months, is reduced to coordination and preparation of this type of activity when necessary. We're in exactly this period right now, and since July 20th, there have been a lot of fires in the country. I can give you statistics, but it seems to me that the goal is not to throw numbers at each other, but rather to tell you that so far the fires have been mastered, as today's only worrying area, so to speak, is the area of Southovo, where the terrain is crossed and the efforts are concentrated, including the flight equipment, will work there on the ground. Of course, the coordination of these three ministries, which I mentioned, does not exclude thousands of Bulgarian citizens volunteers who are involved in this process. With regard to their equipment, their preparation, their instruction when entering such a dangerous environment, the necessary measures are taken, but, of course, the last tragic case has shown us that these measures are not perfect and there are always shortcomings, unfortunately, which have been paid with the most expensive human life. In this regard, we have held a meeting where immediate measures have been taken both in terms of coordination, briefings and in terms of limiting agricultural activity, especially in these days, as much of the fires start precisely from this type of human activity. At this stage, the situation is relatively contained. With regard to the equipment of the forestry employees, you are right that the relatively figures you mentioned are not large for the country, but the estimates that are made, the readiness that the forestry farms have is to include about 2,800 people who have training and advance, so to speak, training, knowledge of the situation and the equipment concerned. According to information received by the Ministry of Agriculture, not every one of them has full equipment, this includes clothing with robust incorruptible materials, shoes, glasses and other materials necessary for their safety to carry out this activity. The information I have is that about 80% of them are equipped in this way. Another point is that, in such an environment, people themselves prefer not to use it for explainable reasons, high temperature, dustiness and so on. There's really more to be done. For these missing 20%, time and funds should be found, I hope by the end of the year, if there is an update of the budget, if not I suppose that next year will be laid down and purchased. In conclusion, I'd like to say that the helicopter theme you're bringing up is not from yesterday. About a week ago, I had the opportunity to speak on this topic, whether this type of machine could be included in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. This kind of meeting is currently under way at the Council of Ministers. So in the event of such an opportunity, and given the situation, we will also try to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u237	Thank you. Mr. Hristov, you have up to two supplementary questions in total two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u238	Thank you, Madam President. I think that the need for emergency measures to combat fires is indeed extremely pressing. I will just add here that it is necessary to build fire towers with thermal cameras. There are already, by the way, in several places, but they should be distributed in Bulgaria so that the fires are really located in the embryo. Otherwise, when it comes out on a broad front, it's very difficult to extinguish. I'll tell you again, 15 years ago from this tribune and another prime minister I proposed to him then they cut Bulgarian tanks and BTRs instead of cutting them instead of earning a few private companies, put a paddle, remove any weapons, cannon and so on and distribute them in the most dangerous places. That's when they kept cutting them off. I don't know, if there's a tank or BTR left, think about that idea. I think she's really good. I'd like to ask you something else. In the media, I know that the previous government has been pressured to buy the new F-16 aircraft, I assume that your government is under similar pressure. Is there such pressure on you to make a binding offer to buy F-16 and Bulgaria, if it fails, to pay penalties? What is more important is the provision of fire planes and helicopters or the purchase of new weapons? What would your government do in this case?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u239	Your time, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u240	That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u241	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, the first question about the so-called automated towers for monitoring and detection of fires is currently operating 17 such in the country. In the process of building are new 13. Obviously, their effectiveness has been assessed in terms of giving preventive information early enough so that before a large fire is heated, it can be reacted. These 13 are built in the regions of Berkovitsa, Blagoevgrad, Burgas, Sliven, respectively. The funding is under the "Prevention of damage to forests and forest fires, natural disasters and event events" from the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. That is to say, there is funding provided, it is being built and the process continues. With regard to the equipment of old military equipment, as you mentioned, tanks or BTRs, I have personally seen the tank chassis refurbished, the running part, based on T-62, I think it was made in one of the units of "Terem" and was proposed on one of the exhibitions "Hemus" but did not meet, it seems to me, market realization, to call it in general. That is, even if there are opportunities, there must be an appropriate economic interest in an organization that wants to buy it, maintain it and use it. The question of what type of technique, given the terrain, is also very important. A kind of technique can be effective in one terrain, with a heavily crossed terrain hard to get to, so the effective way is with air extinguishing where the most intercepted terrain is. With relatively light terrain probably and heavy equipment can do this job, but it is a matter of experts' discretion, I would not be willing to comment on it. With regard to the dilemma whether and when military equipment should be bought and when other civil and humanitarian equipment should be bought, I think that this debate is not just a matter of discussing any government. This is a debate which should also be discussed here in the Chamber, and therefore Parliament should set the tone of priorities. Because, as in the government, the ministries, rudely speaking, compete on which to give a larger budget and implement more important programmes, I think that arbitration should be here in the Chamber. Specifically, your question: I have no impact or influence on whether planes should necessarily be bought in this case military equipment. It's part of a process that started years ago. The Bulgarian Parliament has made a decision, has chosen the supplier and has decided to pay the delivery of the first eight planes that are paid and are currently being made. So 2023.. 2024 at the latest will be available to the Bulgarian Air Force. If the issue is about the second eight planes, the issue will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u243	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Mr. Hristov for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u244	Thank you, Prime Minister. My personal opinion is that when we reach the American or the Middle European standard, we can buy whatever weapons we want - airplanes, helicopters, frigates, corvettes, if you want, even buy, colleagues, aircraft carrier. Unfortunately, however, at the moment the real problems are different. They are in Bulgarian hospitals, in emergency medical care, the people who die on the stairs of hospitals. These are the main problems. People who can no longer shop after this inflation we've witnessed over the past week. I sincerely hope that the Bulgarian Parliament has not helped with these quarrels that we are watching here about inflation, about political and hence financial instability. I sincerely hope so. To facilitate your government, Mr. Prime Minister, and every next government, yesterday I tabled a draft decision on behalf of the Non-Party Candidate Movement on imposing a moratorium on the Bulgarian Army's re-arming transactions. This is a multi-purpose combat aircraft, corvettes, frigates, combat helicopters. I didn't just turn on aircraft carriers. I think it's far more important to buy a fire-fighting plane now, specialized helicopters, and most of all, I was told by the people from the forest farms, specialized high-speed SUVs. They're extremely mobile. Maybe 50 is enough for the whole of Bulgaria, and it costs only 5 million, colleagues. I'll personally lobby for this to happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u245	Your time, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u247	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister. We are moving to the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister in Public Order and Security and Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov. A question from Georgi Kadiev. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u248	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Buying votes and the corporate vote has become a pandemic in recent decades, thus effectively deprecating political campaigns, party ideology and convincing citizens who to vote for. It turns out that the most important thing is who can pay their votes, such as the payment of votes not always, of course... only goes through cash payments, and very often it turns out that this is a result of pressure from various state offices.. Mayors, municipal councillors, MPs, which often comes to pressure for the deprivation of basic human rights, such as the right of access to water, electricity and services of the administration. The last elections were a turning point in this trend. I think I can safely say that these were the most honest elections in the last ten years, which is a great merit of the Ministry of Interior. So, Minister, I would like to ask you this question. Please reply: what was the organisation of the elections held on 11 July 2021, the measures taken by the Ministry of Interior to locate, prevent cases of vote buying, corporate vote and pressure by candidates for MPs, mayors and municipal councillors on voters in order to vote for specific political parties? What is the number of cases committed, investigated and detained, as well as the number of cases submitted to the prosecution for prosecution? What are the main conclusions of the measures taken for you? What are your recommendations for legislative changes in order to continue the pressure on buying votes and ensuring fair elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u249	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u250	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kadyev, these are, if I may say so, very serious questions. It seems to me that they are placed for the first time in the Bulgarian Parliament, if memory serves me right. Because so far, such a reaction to the criminal vote during an election in our country, I haven't noticed, I haven't felt any. This is probably how it has lasted for decades in Bulgaria, but although the Parliament itself has adopted the norms of Chapter 3 on the political rights of Bulgarian citizens, somehow by looking at the activity now of the Ministry of Interior authorities to prevent the crimes related to the electoral rights of Bulgarian citizens are not assessed unambiguously by the political parties. Otherwise, I dare say that in society, we are more likely to get approval for what we have done. Probably the limitation to such a small extent of the criminal vote in Bulgaria is actually due to the organization that was established in our country, first, with a decision of the Council of Ministers on 19 May. Then an organization was established in connection with the preparation of the elections. Since this is more boring matter perhaps for someone or for most of you, I would say in summary. There was created a headquarters in the Ministry of Interior, which was headed by the Secretary General, and it was attended by the heads of the Chief Services of the Ministry of Interior. Secondly, in the same way regional headquarters were created around the country so that they could implement the necessary organisation to effectively counter these negative phenomena. Next, the duties of the Ministry of Interior included the security of the machines, voting devices and their transport, and also the security of the premises where the elections were actually held. In this way, the Ministry of Interior received a very heavy and serious task, of course, in order to ensure fair and transparent elections in our country. In addition, the operational staff of the Ministry of Interior has taken on their very responsible tasks relating to the acquisition of information in relation to the preparation of individual persons or groups for the purchase of votes. It is in this direction that, with such operational, forward-looking information, the Ministry of Interior services have easily managed to take effective action in order to counteract this criminal, I would say, a vote. In this regard, the organizational measures in Bulgaria in connection with the 11 July elections are in practice. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: Madam President, the weather!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u251	Time, Minister. You have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u252	Okay, I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u253	Mr. Kadyev, you're entitled to a line if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u254	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, the measures you have said do not sound to me like something very extraordinary, which leads me to the following conclusion: the Ministry of Interior has always known how to resist buying votes, only it did not want to do so. Now he obviously wants to do it, for which my congratulations. I repeat my question once again so that you can answer the factual part: what is the number of cases committed, investigated and detained persons; the number of cases submitted to the prosecution for prosecution? Main conclusions of the measures and recommendations taken for legislative changes in order to continue the pressure on vote buying and fair elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u255	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You've got two minutes for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u256	You've cut a lot of time, unfortunately. We'll cook then very briefly from here on out. On Mr. Kadyev's specifics. The persons in respect of whom warning protocols are drawn up under the Ministry of Interior Act are 10 thousand and 200 people. For each of these cases, information has been received in advance that a specific person is preparing to take action relating to the political rights of citizens, i.e. to motivate to vote for one party or another. By this figure, I hear we've been practicing almost some violence on citizens. Once again, I assure you that there is no such thing, that this is a legal measure provided for in the Ministry of Interior Act, that it does not provide for a copy of the warning protocol to be served on the person in respect of which it is drawn up. This protocol shall be in accordance with art. 65, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act may be signed by a witness present there in the event of a refusal to sign this Protocol. He is, of course, familiar with the content of the protocol. Secondly, compared to the previous elections on 4 April, we have in dozens of times increased numbers of pre-trial or pre-trial proceedings in relation to some of the members of crime against citizens' political rights. We are talking about 93 criminal proceedings in this direction, unlike those that are about a dozen for the April elections that year. In addition, proceedings have been initiated in other criminal groups, namely under art. 216 supplicate and damage; art. Art. 308, Art. 309? document crimes and others, including hooliganism. So, in this sense, the cases that have been initiated, of course, are still being handled by the Ministry of Interior, or are closed and handed over to the relevant prosecution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u257	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u258	Okay, okay. I won't break the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u259	Thank you. We move on to the second question to Minister Rashkov from the National Representative Nikolay Hadzhigenov. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! The point of the questions asked to the Minister of Service Rashkov is a continuation of the questions raised to the Justice Minister Yanaki Stoilov last week and the written question that was asked to the Minister of Education, they all refer to the same question. The diploma of Ivan Stoimenov Geshev is fit and enough to be a magistrate at all? On the subject of whether he's fit to be the Attorney General or not, I don't think he's left unattended or thinking he's fit. The questions have been formulated clearly enough, I do not consider it necessary to bore the National Assembly. There are reasonable doubts about Mr. Geshev's fitness to exercise law-related activities outside the Ministry of Interior. There are listed in the questions enough misunderstandings of the type: faculty number and so on. It is apparent from the reference of the Education Minister that only a humanium is indicated. Interesting, no grades?! With so many honours along GERB, probably in other political forces, I am personally curious why there are no assessments? For example, by gun training, which is one of the most important subjects that all lawyers study. [[Heckling]] Oh, sorry, we lawyers don't study gun training. At that time, the famous Magnar School of Magnour is not even a higher school. For me the questions are important, insofar as the incompetence, bordering with the total legal illiteracy of the holder of the office, is important to ask the questions of the minister. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u261	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u262	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hadzhigenov, yes, it is. A check is carried out on the issue you have put by three ministries: the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior. Since our examination required more time, I asked for a little extension because it couldn't happen, like in Justice, where the question had to be answered whether one year of theoretical-practical internship Ivan Geshev had passed or not? As far as the question is concerned, I will say the following: Yes, we have established in an inspection, appointed by me, at the moment the Academy of the Ministry of Interior that Mr. Ivan Geshev was enrolled as a student in the Faculty of State Security, a specialty of security of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. There he continued his studies and after two years later this specialty was closed, this Faculty of State Security, he went to the next Faculty of National Militia. He studied for five years, ten semesters. It was found that he had passed an exam on Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure on June 6, 1994, under Citizen's Law and Process on July 21, 1994, and under the Special Schools, I do not know what they are, 12 September 1994, after which he was employed at a police station here in Sofia, as an operative in the service of criminal crimes, then, apparently, he started his theoretical-practical service. Meanwhile, at the end of the year he was appointed as assistant investigator in the National Investigation Service until his theoretical practical internship probably expired. With regard to the Higher Special School, which has undergone many transformations over the years, at the Higher Institute of the Ministry of Interior Georgi Dimitrov, then the Higher Institute for the Training of Officers and Research of the Ministry of Interior, and finally, in recent years, this is the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. Then, when we checked with the Ministry of Interior, I have copies, stressing this: copies of some of the documents relating to the education of Mr. Ivan Geshev's originals remained there, he did not slow down to send two people prosecutors to see what we were doing at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, and I believe that they ordered a publication in one place, then followed the explanation that the prosecution had self-sessed. You mean, under the pretext that the Ministry of Interior inspection officers will go to the Ministry of Interior Academy, imagine now, and destroy documents?! And since we didn't find her there anyway and we didn't find her anywhere, I asked the Supreme Judicial Council to give us a chance to check into his personal personnel case there. And we were denied. Is the time running out, Madame Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u263	To run out, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov, you are entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Minister, in so far as normal lawyers have all performed internship, which is mandatory, is established in the law and it is full-time work, is it possible to be employed as an employee at the Ministry of Interior as an operative and to conduct an internship at the same time? Justice Minister Yanaki Stoilov made it clear last week that there was some kind of decree, if memory serves, which allows such an opportunity for assistant investigators. That is, at a later stage Ivan Geshev was an assistant investigator a few months later, and then his internship was respected. In the next place, the issue of Ivan Geshev's missing diploma is curious. Even when he was running for chief prosecutor, I took the liberty of conducting a private investigation, to call him, it has been more than two years since then, and then Ivan Geshev's diploma was not in the archive of the Ministry of Interior. Now, notice, the Minister of the Interior cannot establish: does Ivan Stoimenov Geshev actually even have a diploma? This is the man who holds the position of Chief Prosecutor, who, after an assistant investigator, worked as an investigator, I personally had the pleasure of confronting him while he was in the Transport Investigation, then was for two Friday and a half prosecutor, and the CTB case launched him as Prosecutor General at the moment. And that's an interesting question. Thank you, Madame Chairman, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u265	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Mr. Minister, you're entitled to a double for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u266	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hadjigenov, one of the questions that we wanted to clarify by checking Mr. Geshev's personal personnel work at the Supreme Judicial Council is this question that you asked me: is it possible to intern without the permission of the Minister of Internal Affairs, respectively, without the consent of the Head of the relevant Investigation Service from the moment when he joined as Assistant Investigator? This question we have not been able to clarify because we have not been given the opportunity to verify that. I personally spoke with the present High Judicial Council Mr. Grozdev, he asked me to write him an official letter and apply your decision which I have made. I made, naturally, a written request, pointed out the person of the Ministry of Interior to carry out the inspection, after which this walk.......................................................................... I could answer that question. I could answer other questions if there were, of course, documents there and we were allowed to do so. In the Supreme Judicial Council, the answer is that on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council there is a copy of the diploma. There's deleted data in there. There's been a blackout. We cannot do an accurate inspection of what we are doing. I also do not know whether it is within the authority of the Minister of Justice to see whether this internship is the one-year-old, theoretical-practical, who has passed Geshev, is related to relevant permissions: by the Minister of Interior while he was an officer of the Ministry of Interior, then by the relevant investigator and so on and so forth? So for me, the issue of this verification stands: we have not done a comprehensive objective examination of this issue, which you, as representatives of the high authority in the state, have decided and asked us to verify. That's my conclusion at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u267	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the third question to Minister Rashkov from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u268	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Rashkov, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, I have recently received a lot of signals from Bulgarian teachers and principals of kindergartens as a popular representative from Sofia area for being used to regional governments in the respective municipalities to explain whether they are members of a political party, whether they have campaigned at the previous early parliamentary elections on 11 July for a particular political party. This greatly worries both me and them and looks like political repression and fear-making. Bulgarian teachers, like every Bulgarian citizen, are entitled to a Constitution under the laws of our country to exercise their right to vote. Bulgarian teachers are very aware of their rights and obligations and observe them strictly and know that when they exercise their profession and within their duties, they cannot campaign, but they can join parties. The feeling remains that you treat Bulgarian teachers as criminals, and at a time of continuing a pandemic of Kovid, in which a second year in a row they should organize the distance training. Let us not forget that the elections are held in the Bulgarian schools and teachers are one of the main participants when the schools need to be prepared to hold the elections. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: Is it true and on what basis are called principals and teachers from schools and kindergartens from Sofia-district: from Samokov, Ihtiman, Kostinbrod, Slivnitsa, Gorna Malina, Pirdop, Zlatitsa, Svoge, Etropole, Botevgrad, Dolna Banya, Kostenets, Koprivshtitsa Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u269	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u270	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, specifically to the question, as it turns out that we have very little time. In the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Sofia received a signal from principals of schools and kindergartens from Sofia district, which reported abuse of office by Mrs. R.I., who works in the relevant regional management of education. Data are shown that the same lady has been running around schools and kindergartens in Sofia area in a service car and has organised meetings with directors, campaigning to vote in favour of a political party, which I will keep secret for now. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] In connection with the signal, a real inspection was carried out by the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Sofia, on the facts and circumstances. Yes, indeed, they are 12 precinct police stations, in each of these stations are not called up and not to explain, because they are invited by phone to report to the precinct police stations to answer specific questions regarding this signal. I can show you the signal. But I'll say something else along the way. Those teachers who have been summoned to see, they have not confirmed the signal. They haven't confirmed the signal, and why they haven't confirmed the signal is interesting to tell you: because they're afraid of being fired, so they haven't confirmed the signal. [[Heckling]] These materials, of course, are sent to the prosecution to rule. In the same sense, in one of the district police departments, because the pressure was great, huge then, at the time of the election campaign, Mrs. Angelkova, one teacher, school principal did not succumb to the pressure and what happened to her, do we all know?! She was fired. It's about Godech. Do you have such a thing in your information? And if you do, you won't, of course, expose it here. This lady's name is Ilina Nikolova. She had nothing left to lose, so she communicated this information to the district government, to the governor. Since the anonymous signal, Mrs. Angelkova, has been sent not only to the Ministry of Interior on the basis of which we have undertaken an inspection, but also to the governor and to the Minister of Education, I have also collected information from these ministries. Turns out there's a lot of similar signals there, and they're anonymous because people are afraid of getting fired, so they didn't sign the signal below. In this regard, I would like to tell you something interesting. With the participation of people from the educational system, a deputy.. will not say the position, because the investigation was actually conducted and completed, but the deputy mayor went before the elections, of course, to one principal of the school, asked from her and she started campaigning for the benefit of a party, which I will also not say in order to buy votes of 50 leva. That was the price, by the way. But why not this party is not in plenary. With your permission, I would say that this is about the Bulgarians.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u271	Mr. Minister, your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u272	I'll continue if the MPs ask for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u273	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u274	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Rashkov, from your answer I understand what we already know that Bulgarian teachers and directors are accustomed to giving explanations. I also understand that by anonymous signals that you have, but you don't want to show us, as well as the wiretap signals. However, I understand, and we are all aware that the 11 July elections were held during a period in which he managed and still manages the office of the office, the dismissals and appointments are made by you, the service cabinet, the minister of education. [[Noise and lines.]] In fact, you, using the entire state machine and apparatus, are trying to make people fear and worry about their work, to give explanations and data so that you can fire uncomfortable people in the RIOs and not only in the public organizations and institutions, using the machine of the Ministry of Interior, to call them for 24 hours, to be afraid, to be ashamed of their relatives and friends, to treat them like criminals. Understand, this is psychological harassment of the educational system, which is extremely fragile and stop treating teachers like criminals. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u275	Here you are, Mr. Minister. You have the right to the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u276	I don't know if that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u277	It always makes sense to say, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u278	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am ready to present immediately the anonymous signal to the Ministry of Education. Why there first? The Ministry of Internal Affairs with a copy to me and a copy to the district governor with whom I have spoken and he has confirmed, as well as Mr. Denkov, Minister of Education, too. Here you go. [[Passing the signal of the MP Nikolina Angelkova.]] Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that yes, talks with representatives of the educational system in Sofia-district have been held. Mrs. Angelkova, this isn't about 24-hour detention, please, it's about talking to them! None of them are in custody at all, even less in 24 hours. Third, since I see your willingness to take the signal that is anonymous, there is also one that is not anonymous. [[Applause from IHN.]] It speaks, but I won't give it to you now. It talks about two things about Botevgrad, about an activist of yours who works at the same school and please... [[The National Representative Nikolina Angelkova reached out to take the signal in question.]] Is this how you greet guests in parliament?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u279	Mrs. Angelkova, take your seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u280	Will I decide whether to give Mrs. Angelkova and this specimen? I'll be the judge of that. [[Heckling]] We'll multiply it and then I'll give it to you. That's why I'm showing it to all the MPs, not for anything else. There are two parts in this signal, which is also visible. In one part there is talk about the legal use of euro funds for repair of school, and in the other part there is talk about pressure from the principal on the school staff to vote for one party. I won't tell you who she is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u281	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes the questions to Minister Rashkov. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u282	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you are in parliamentary control and you are obliged to answer the questions. In this context, I ask you to say which party has been tried to buy the votes because the elections have ended.. you will not violate absolutely no law if you inform the Bulgarian citizens and the MPs who have done these things. Otherwise, it just can't make sense of this parliamentary control. Madam President, my procedure is to ask the Home Secretary to tell which party the signals are for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u283	Mr. Svilensky, do you seriously think this is a procedure to conduct? Mr. Minister, tell them if you wish, I can't force you. After all, it's your right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u284	Of course, I'll tell you that there's even one convicted very quickly after the last election for such an act of six months on probation and a fine of five thousand. lv. It is obvious that this is under art. 78a of the Penal Code, Montana District. This isn't about unknown people and so on and so forth. Once again, it is about an impact that a political figure has had on a head of a school. So when you talk about pressure and political repression, almost, which the Ministry of Interior has been putting on teachers, educators and so on, it's just lies. There is no such thing in the Ministry's practice. Please, if you have specific information in this direction, pass it to the Ministry we will check it and take the necessary measures immediately to never repeat this again. In a way, Mr. Svilensky's question here today is legitimate. You need to know that. In many cases, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated. It's no accident that I mentioned them to you about 100 people across the country. It's not right for me to say which party he's against, and I'll explain why. Because the initial information may have pointed to one party as dealing with a paid vote, but subsequently the investigation itself finds that this is not the case or that it is an activity carried out by another political party. Therefore, it seems to me that it would not be right for the parliamentary tribune to sound exactly those parties that were involved in this activity. Perhaps later, when the criminal procedures are completed, it would be justified, but it is now too early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u285	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the question of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Georgi Todorov. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u286	Dear Madam President, ministers, honourable Members! After Bulgaria spent nearly 2 billion. lv. for the e-government, 2 billion, notice, now for all of us who have cars, perhaps you, too, ministers, have one, we will have to buy an eco-tricker, which costs 10 BGN. and expensive the technical review with 10 BGN. This will cost the economy, which is important for Mr. Vassilev, the Finance Minister, between 20 million and 30 million. lv. per year, which makes this eco-tasker, quasi-tax. Twenty-thirty million leva a year, an additional cost for all of us. Many people asked me the question: how do we make an e-government, we spent 2 billion. BGN, you struggled so long to have electronic wineries and they're electronic, and now someone has decided to put ecoticers, which, by the way, is one big thing that sticks under the mirror. For some models cars it is extremely strange to call it that and make it even difficult to see good in the car. Mr. Todorov, even KPCONPI, who I don't know about otherwise wrote an opinion, but on this topic they have written an opinion that this idea is not a good idea. Because these ecotricks were introduced by a regulation. [[Heckling]] Don't talk to me about the Atmospheric Air Act. They were introduced by Decree N-32. You can remove them within the term of office, the question is to solve it. Because this is how you have to act by seeing something that is not fair, is not smart, which is quasi-tax, loads the economy, contrary to the idea of digitalization, e-government, you can remove it. So I call on you, as by the way, to do your colleague Violeta Komitova for the passportization of the buildings. We've talked to her many times. The woman approaches wisely and responsible again was a regulation, it was still insane, it would cost 3 billion to the economy, it reacted and the issue was solved. Here you have to approach it the same way. I urge you to take action and not tell me that you are only a minister of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u287	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u288	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, the amendments to Regulation N 32 aim, first, to improve the quality of periodic tests for the testing of road vehicles and to overcome some of the control and technical points of unauthorised practices. The amendments are an instrument for the subsequent regulation of low emission areas in restricted access cities for vehicles that pollute with a view to improving the quality of the air in the major cities of the country. Existing video surveillance systems can be used by municipalities to control the introduction of restrictions on the entry of certain categories of motor vehicles and this is implemented as the functionality of the system. It should also be taken into account that under poor weather conditions.. snow, heavy rain, fog, as well as contaminated vehicle numbers, the quality of control is significantly reduced. It is also extremely difficult to capture the numbers in large cities where traffic jams are formed, in the case of dense traffic of cars behind each other, because the front or, respectively, rear of the vehicle is interfering with visibility. This problem is solved by a chip sign which, under experimental conditions, allows the vehicle to be identified from 14 meters at a speed of more than 140 km per hour. The data from the chip can be effectively used by the control authorities. If the control bodies are equipped with RFID readers, they will be able to take distance identification data on road vehicles, allowing automated administrative activity and reducing processing time, which will also have an anti-corruption effect. Because the remote reading device will automatically report the motor vehicle with a chip and the control will not be able to close its eyes and miss its check. Parking control in large cities will be able to automate and cross a possible corruption risk. Another major problem which aims to be addressed with the new technical examination signs is to ensure that the vehicle on which a technical examination is to be carried out is actually submitted for inspection at the technical point. The control and technical points have found that there are no single cases of installation of registration numbers of technically correct vehicles or the printing of registration numbers of road vehicles which are abroad and the installation of another vehicle which is to undergo a technical examination. Given that about 2 million reviews are carried out annually, it is impossible and inappropriate to rely only on video surveillance systems at control stations. The addition of these systems in order to ensure in full the necessary and effective control during the technical examination is possible either by ensuring the physical presence of inspectors by the Agency or by introducing chip signs. Control through the physical presence of inspectors cannot be identified as effective due to the lack of sufficient inspectors, and subsequent control is almost impossible because there is no environment in the information system to verify that another road vehicle has passed instead of what it needs to pass. To overcome this flaw, the introduction of the chip sign is envisaged. In this way, the review will also begin after reading the data from the sign. The attempt to remove the sign and mount another car damages its antenna and makes it readable. If the vehicle is first examined, there is no sign of its specimen, or the vehicle is damaged for any reason, the number of the frame of the vehicle will have to be recorded at the technical point because otherwise the review cannot be initiated. Information on all vehicles that have passed a review will be received at the Executive Agency....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Given that in a year's time almost all cars will have passed a technical examination, the Agency will have a database of photos of all the numbers of ramps on road vehicles. The number of road vehicles without reading data from the sign will be small, allowing control of video surveillance systems to focus on such reviews. This measure will minimise the possibility of carrying out an ineffective review, reduce the corruption risk and end uncontrolled practices at certain points.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u289	Mr. Minister, your time is long gone. I've shown tolerance and given you time to still be able to develop your answer, but we're overdoing it. You'll be able to say something extra within the back. Thank you. Here's a line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u290	Madam President, ministers! Well, according to the same logic, Kiril Petkov, who stands there, could say, "What about us for the Bulgarian Development Bank?" There's nothing we can do! I'm here as a minister of the service. Yeah, I can see there's some bad practices, but there's nothing I can do. Except he didn't say so. He took everything out in public and took action. The question is you, Mr. Todorov. I see, from your words, there's nothing we can do. Then I ask you the following question: how come there is no sticker, there is control? There's video surveillance, and everything happens. Is that your idea of e-government and digitalization? Why load Bulgarian citizens with 20 million. lv. additional expenditure that is quasi-tax per year? Why expensive the technical examination with 10 leva.? Why are you doing this? And don't make excuses. We need to be able to take action. You're telling me that these chips would have readers reading them. How many Chets are there now? Come on, answer me from this tribune! Today, last week, I had a technical examination, so the stickers are there. But tell me, how many readers are there? I mean, how real can these stickers read? It's a crazy idea that may have been good for the last century, but we're years later, in a digital era, a digital age, where video control, Mr. Todorov, is what works and makes sense. This works for the wineries, works for the technical examinations. By the way, the technical examination itself is also filmed by a camera. So I don't see what you're worried about. And filming the technical examination from a camera is a much greater guarantee that it was real than anyone sticking anything. Well, somebody might be putting that stuff on home, Mr. Todorov. That's no guarantee of anything. The point is that with these quasi-taxes that come one after the other, the burden is on the citizen, the burden is on the economy and the development is stopped. The question is: how will people remember you? Like that minister of the service who didn't do anything and had to come next to do the job. You decide for yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u291	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister, within two minutes, if I may.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u292	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, about the cost of the eco-tasker, I should point out that the Executive Agency has concluded a contract. This contract lays down the requirement for the contractor to supply on request a set of documents for the needs of technical examinations and to provide a technical opportunity for online registration of the technical examinations carried out. Part of the documentation package is also the sign of the technicality of road vehicles. All technical stations will receive equipment, computer system, connectivity and access to the Agency's information system, all of which is supplied by the contractor under the contract without the technical posts paying for it. The technical posts pay only the value of the documents requested by them to carry out the activity and the price of the documents for technical examination is increased by 3.30 BGN. without VAT. In view of the information system upgrades, the production and delivery of stickers and the necessary equipment, no public resource is spent for work. For control of the technical points the price of the documents for periodic tests for testing of the working conditions is increased by 3.30 BGN. without VAT. The control and technical posts shall be independent legal entities and may freely determine the price of the services provided by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u293	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes the questions to Minister Todorov. We are moving on with the questions to the Minister of Economics Mr. Kiril Petkov. Question from the MP Maya Manolova. Mrs. Manolova, come in. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u294	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! By decision of July 2018, the government of GERB commissioned the State consolidation company to repair dams according to the attached list. There are 414 dams recorded, claiming that they all need urgent repairs. For this purpose, the Council of Ministers shall provide the DKK with 500 million. lv. from the state budget to make the corresponding repairs. The Civic Platform "Stand up" -- which I am chairman of -- alerted at the very beginning of 2020 that no public procurement procedures are actually being carried out and no repair activities are being started. In time we tried to get information from the GERB government, including one under the Law on Access to Public Information from the DKK, but it was denied to us, which does not mean that Bulgarian citizens stopped worrying about where 500 million of the state budget went. The audit committee opened the page and highlighted the topic that you then continued. Unlike your colleague just now, you cannot be accused of not being remembered as an active economic minister, for which congratulations! You personally showed how the repairs were done in four dams. Furthermore, this time we have received an answer to our question, which is that not just 500 million. BGN and additional DKK took a loan from the BBI for another 130 million. BGN, so the money to repair dams is 730 million. BGN, with which, notice, repairs were carried out only at the cost of 104 million. BGN, while at the same time, of course, the money was transferred in advance, the whole amount for the repair. The point of the insolence is that the last repairs were awarded one week before the 4 April elections, with 90 million being translated. lv. For repairs amounting to 75 million lv. My question to you is: what stage are dam repairs? Is there any final completion? What is their quality? Have they been paid off? Have they been started in relation to other dams? Are there any that haven't even started? How much money is actually invested in repairs and where is the other money? Where and how are they stored and who is operating with them?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have the answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u296	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Thanks for asking. Here's what the exact situation looks like today. They've been transferred to the Montaji company, which has to repair all these dams, 582 million is the exact amount, of which we have only 10 completed dams today, of these 10 only five are full, the other five even stand empty. Why are these five full? After our verification, these five were provided to the undertaking which had to serve it. Otherwise, they weren't even betrayed. Separately, we have 18 completed repairs, but in the process of completing the documentation, the 104 dams in the process of repairing activities are being carried out, 83 in the process of investigation, 52 dams have been terminated with contracts, they were first entrusted, then stopped, and immediately the state lost 3 million and 300 at the moment only because we investigated them and stopped them. Why they're terminated isn't very clear. By looking at the contracts themselves of "Montage" we see a concentration of six to seven companies in which there was no real public procurement or auction. They are simply chosen according to some formula and given to these six companies, as part of these six companies you can see them in completely different places. The same company is the best for Sliven and the best for Lovech. The prices at which the State Consolidated Company paid to "Montage" are twice the market prices of concrete and five times the market prices of transport. According to my calculations, roughly about 200 million is really taxpayers' money that was dumped. In fact, at these prices we have overpaid 200 million for these activities, which is more worrying to me than anything I have never said before. We made a working group to investigate which are the most dangerous or dams with the biggest problem around them, making a clear criterion how close they are to settlements, to key infrastructure and what state they are in. We have established with this task force that there are 33 dams that are in the most severe condition, with the greatest potential bad effect on neighbouring settlements. On the one hand, we have spent all this money, but of these 33 none fall into the top 10 that we have completed, none fall into the 18 which are almost complete, and 11 of these 33 dangerous dams are not even assigned to be investigated. So here we have a situation where these funds have been spent 5 full dams, 10 completed, but none of the dangerous finished ones, and 11 not even on the list of those on which they are working. The Public Procurement Agency informs the DKK and the Montagues that they have violated the Public Procurement Act, so we also have this opinion, and they must cease such practices from now on. Unfortunately, however, all the contracts with these companies have been signed and all the money has been negotiated. Right now, we only have 140 million left and they're all agreed. If we go to break these contracts, they'll sue the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u297	Mr. Minister, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u298	Finally, we also found that it is absurd that these dams are in the Ministry of Economy because when you do not use these dams, they stand empty. It is much more aimed that these dams go immediately to the Ministry of Agriculture, where at least this water can be used for irrigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u299	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, you are entitled to a reply within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u300	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We are all aware that we are talking about a scheme, about another black bank of GERB, this time in the Ministry of Economy and in the face of the State consolidation company, which has a special company for the purpose of creating a company, which in just a year and a half, as we can see, has been able to scroll nearly 700 million. BGN, including from the state budget and taken as a loan from the BBI. The subject is disturbing enough as it is. It is about the state of the dams and what damage and disasters can be caused if they are not in good condition, but obviously the corruption interests are first in front of everyone else. Like the motorways, like Sofecostroi, which the capital Mayor Fandakova created on the basis of the Clean Iskars to build without public procurement, so the DKK during Montage has commissioned close-up companies to repair activities for hundreds of millions of levs. In general, this scheme with friendly companies, with court firms that have grown around all ministries, should be terminated because I do not agree that this is simply about decisions made in the context of inadequacy. This is a serious violation of the Public Procurement Act. It does not allow hollow companies to play the role of mailboxes and money? Hundreds of millions of levs from the state budget to go to the friendly circle of power. It would also be interesting to hear who these companies are. Surely, as with Autoway, as well as in Sofia with the Clean Iskar. These are companies, close either of the former Prime Minister Borisov, or of the mayor of the capital or of the mayor in shadow for the capital, but in any case the interest of the Bulgarian taxpayers is severely impaired. My question to you is: what actions can be taken? I hope that you will have enough time to bring out the truth about each of these dams for each of these companies, but decisions need to be made here. You have enough information and enough expertise to suggest how to close the tap of this brutal drain of the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the backrest in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u302	Thank you. That's what I'm saying. State funds have been drained through this type of procurement without public procurement, without tender, under the hat of a company which is really only one holding that has no real activity except to cover up this type of lack of public procurement. What are we doing right now? The first thing is, and if we have a little more time, we will realize it.. We have already proposed to the Council of Ministers to raise Montagues to the Ministry of Economy. Stop hiding these types of companies under holding structures. When they are under direct control of the Minister of Economy, we will have much more clarity on how these repairs happen. That's the first thing. The second thing is that we have appointed, with today's date, by the way, a new member of the Board of Directors of the DKK and we hope to see him next week as a new CEO. If this becomes a fact that must be voted by the other members of the Board, who have so far shown some cooperativeity, we will actually for the first time have an absolutely independent person who will investigate in an even greater detail all of the actions of the Board, because in the Montagues was the big scheme, where not only dams, but the government complex, also with one big down payment, is happening. So change the people, raise the Montajs to the Ministry of Economy, investigate in detail and stop the practice without public procurement and without ministerial control. Really, at this moment, I, as Minister, can't say anything to Montagues. They're hiding under the independent board of the DKK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u303	Thank you. We move on to the second question to Minister Petkov. From the National Representative Mincho Hristov Kuminev come in, Mr. Kuminev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u304	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, you have provided enough information in the media about what was going on in the Bulgarian Development Bank, I would say bravely the outrage that has been done there. When I came to parliament, I went to the Development Bank. I congratulate you on making a fancy limo, which, as I understand it, was worth about 400,000. lv. To former bank chief Stoyan Mavrodiev. What I want to ask you. Of course, I will also ask you about how much Stoyan Mavrodiev received, how did the funds of the Bulgarian state disperse? By the way, I asked the Prime Minister earlier. Turns out, for that 400,000. lv. Four high-speed fire extinguishing jeeps can be purchased for the luxury limo. I'll leave the comment to you. How many loans are granted to the Development Bank; which are the main borrowers and the most important thing I would like to ask you: are the loans in question guaranteed; will the Bulgarian State recover these loans; what way is it to recover them and what is your opinion on this issue? I'm asking you not about anything else, but because it's about $2 billion. lv. The money of the Bulgarian people. To the Bulgarian people! And it's high time we took account of those who were trying to steal from this people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u305	Thank you, Mr. Kuminev. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor for an answer within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u306	Thanks for asking. First, to give some statistics on what the Bank's portfolio looks like on 30 July: 2 billion and 200 million is the entire portfolio to individual customers with 141 exposures. However, real exposures classified as non-performing and with the worst internal rating already in Phase 3 are of a total amount of 545 million. The biggest borrowers of the Bank are: DKK, Market Investments JSC, Rhoudway Construction, "Bulgartransgaz" (Bulgartransgaz), "Industrial Solutions", "Technologis", "Blagoevgrad BT", "Sunchev day", "International Investments", "Sentral Districts", "Transpect-Union Ivkoni", "Colect BG" and "Bulgarian Maritime Fleet." These 10 have a total exposure of 1 billion and 300 million. The other problem of these exposures is that the so-called loan-to-value (LTV) ratio, or the ratio of debt to a reduced value of collateral is within the limit of 80% of many of them, but there are exposures that are close to the 100 percent, which we know is a red line for anyone who understands the banking sector. And if I were to quote: "Industrial Solutions" "Technologies" "Previously" "Blagoevgrad" is 99%. It's a debt-to-security ratio. It is 100% on the Transspect- Union Ivconi. It is 121% on the Central District. So, yeah, we have a pretty big problem with some of these credits. That is why this year the net result of the Bank will be minus 250 million, because we will improvise part of these loans, which we do not really believe we will get them this way. But when we financed the Bank with 1 billion and 400 million of taxpayers' money, it's still and it's very liquid. We have a capital adequacy of 37% because we also have funds in the management of the Bank, which are quite liquid If we draw the line, what do we see? Huge loans, a very high-risk part of them, but without creating a problem for the Bank because the taxpayer paid a billion and 400 of the capital money, so it remains highly liquid. A few things we do so we don't just talk in the past tense. We are currently negotiating and negotiating for more resources to have a lower price resource in the Bank, with the EIB and the Council of Europe Development Bank. If we look at the loans given during our government, we have in the micro-financing 6 credits with an average of 80 000, we have 150 new credits in the guarantee programmes in June with a total value of 24 million, or 160 thousand on a credit average, and for July 94 credits with a 23 million budget, or an average of 245 thousand on credit. This is how we think the Bulgarian Development Bank should work. This is the size of the loans that must be given from there. Unfortunately, the others will slowly start following them, negotiating with them, and slowly reducing them. I am pleased to say that 60 million of the large loans have already been reduced by negotiations, so this is the work of the Bank's Board of Directors. Now they're talking, debating how we can melt this huge portfolio of huge loans, as far as we can, and all the money we take from these big loans, we can give it to small and medium-sized enterprises. These values of me personally like between 160 and 250 thousand on credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u307	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u308	My supplementary question is: of this 1 billion. 400 million Bulgarian citizens' money in this bank, how much do you think will be returned and who will be criminally responsible for this? And at all, can anyone be criminally responsible? I, colleagues, will tell you that 2002, at the time of the government of citizen Simeon Borisov Koburggotski, three of his MPs offered to drop the penal responsibility for handing out unsecured loans. Now, as far as I know, any banker, any banker can hand out the money to the depositors he wants and he knows he won't go to jail. Perhaps this, colleagues, if we could do it while this meeting is working, would be extremely good. I'm hiring myself. By the way, I offered it repeatedly 15 years ago, rejected it on the grounds that you see, it was not the money of the depositors, but the banks, which I replied to: colleagues, what money do banks have, where that money comes from? So maybe that's what I want to tell you, and that's my specific question: how much of that money do you think can be returned and how? And what can we MPs from this unfortunate parliament help to raise people's money? Because it's all of us's money, colleagues. And I really expect you to... I'll put in a proposal like that. I expect support from all parliamentary groups. Let's at least do something good before we loosen up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u309	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u310	Yes, thank you. As I said, exposures with the worst internal rating at the moment in the Bulgarian Development Bank are 545 million. In other words, we have a great risk that the Bulgarian taxpayer will not see that money back. At the moment, the provisions that we are going to make for this year are 250 million, which means that by the best standards we expect that 250 million of this portfolio will never see back, so this is the answer. And let me just say about the car, because it wasn't one... That was a metaphor for me. When you spend $400,000 on a BMW limo and it is one of the five best cars sold this year across Europe and this is paid by the Bulgarian taxpayer, yes, someone has completely forgotten with whose money he works with and what is the purpose of this bank. And my call to you is... Yeah, these things can't be unpunished, can't everybody pay taxes and end up walking around like this and disappearing in the pockets of this kind of person. Well, deal with it, people! You have the entire legislative opportunity to change how to work the prosecution in Bulgaria. In any normal country, if they escaped from a bank funded by our taxes, they would have great consequences in court. So, the other thing we're talking about here from morning till night... People, the other thing are our clients of the Bulgarian Development Bank. Well, now there's going to be a crisis. If you do not vote on this budget update, we will have even more problems with the small businesses that we want to finance. Four hundred and thirty million are currently waiting and money is ready to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises during the next wave of the crisis and the only thing that is required of you is to vote on them. So you have a responsibility. We can't just try to make things right from here from morning to night. Do your job. This budget needs to be updated. Thank you. [[Applause. Knocking on banks, noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u311	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your guidance to the MPs. Mr. Hristov, come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u312	Well, attitude towards colleagues. Colleagues, it's really important what the minister said. I'm not his lawyer, but if there is no budget update, there will be no pension money, there will be no money for hospitals, there will be no money for the most basic needs, so the update is really urgent. I appeal kindly to all of you who were knocking on your door just now. People have sent us here to do something useful for them. If we push the country towards political, hence the financial crisis, do not think that people will forgive you. We must be accountable to our own voters. That's what I think. So the update is really pressing. And now to the Minister. From what I've heard from you, I just don't have anything to comment on, you were talking about 250 million. I'm sorry I can't ask you this, but I think my question is more about colleagues. We need to find a shape, colleagues, to punish those thieves who stole 250 million. We need to find a legislative form, not a political one. These people have to go to jail effectively so they don't steal the next bankers like this. I won't remind you of what happened to KTB and another bank. So that's our responsibility. Not to bang on the tables, not to be offended like carts, sorry for the expression. People sent us here to work. I say it well-meaningly to all parliamentary groups. I was gonna ask you some more questions, but maybe I'm out of time already?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u313	Yes, it's expired, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u314	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u315	Thank you. We move on to the next question from Veska Nencheva, Manol Genov and Atanas Zafirov concerning You're welcome to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u316	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, VMZ Sopot is a construction company in the military industrial complex for the state and one of the main employers for the region of Podbalkana. The enterprise employs about 4,000 people and their income depends on the income of their families. There are few periods in which there is no tension of a different nature in the IMP and all of this is at the expense of those working there. The last calm period for IMP was in 2013 when the Ministry of Economy with Minister Dragomir Stoinev managed to secure long-term contracts for IMPs, calm work and income for workers and employees. Today, tensions are being created again in the IMP. From the media we get acquainted with the demands of the unions and upcoming protests if their demands are not met. What requires restructuring of the DKK and subtracting the IMP from its structure? Does this also mean removing the enterprise from the prohibition list that protects it from privatisation? Will the existence of SOpot, as a state enterprise of strategic importance for Bulgaria, be guaranteed? In this regard, we have information about several inspections in recent months made in the enterprise. What action will the Ministry take on the basis of these checks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u317	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u318	Thanks for asking. First of all, the restructuring of the DKK is in no way related to the IMP itself. I personally believe that many of the companies under the DKK should simply go up to the Ministry of Economy in order to have greater transparency of what is going on with them, because at this point, I, as a minister, the only thing I can do, in the case of the MFF, is to write letters to the State Consolidated Company and to guide them and ask them, but they have an independent board and say: "We decide, we are an independent board..................................... and there is also the Public Enterprises Act, where I do not even have the right to fire them just like this. Yes, so from this point of view, the DKK needs to be restructured as much as we can from businesses to take them directly to the Ministry of Economy, the more transparent we would have done it and the more transparent the management of these companies would seem. In relation to the very problems at the IMP. There is tension between the new board, which was appointed April, and the Executive Director, who has been there for a longer time, as well as the trade unions and trade union structures at the IMP. I've had a lot of conversations with them, and we've come together under the general idea that this company, in order to work well, we need to make sure that there are no thefts. In order for there to be no theft, there must be maximum transparency of the actions of each and every one of them, and we have proposed to appoint two procurators at the IMP who can at least tell us the full information about what is happening and where this tension is coming from. Unfortunately, the independent board of IMP rejected this proposal, and the independent board of the DCC said: "Well, we will do our best to investigate the issue. " I very much hope that, with today's appointment of the new Council member to the DKK, who I very much hope will be elected next week as CEO of the DKK, will give us the opportunity to go directly into the VMH, to listen to the calls of the trade unions, which, by the way, have one common goal with ours, and that is if money does not run out in the wrong way or there are no obstacles at the entrance and at the exit of this company, there will be money for wages. So we are now in coordination with the unions, we are in coordination with part of the management of the IMP and we are literally waiting for next week to get into control of the DKK, which will give us the opportunity to investigate the matter, not just write letters from morning to night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u319	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u320	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I thank you for not answering officially and in your reply I feel concern about the future of this extremely strategic and subject to the national security of the country enterprise. After all, there are two issues that really excite both the employees of the Bulgarian Ministry of Education and Bulgarian society. The first one is and it is not meaningless: really how the state guarantees and will guarantee the preservation of the state ownership of the enterprise? It is not devoid of meaning because in recent years the management of GERB has made several attempts, including by removing from the ban list, with a Programme for Privatization of the Enterprise. So we feel that this is unacceptable and we insist that the state really take the necessary measures. And the second, no less important issue, concerns the preservation of jobs. That's the question that excites people. Keeping jobs goes through, as you said, securing orders, guaranteeing jobs, and in such a volume that would allow the preservation of these jobs. Therefore are both my questions to you, as well as the question that was asked: to say more if possible about these checks that have passed, and what have they established?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u321	Thank you. You've got two minutes for the back, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u322	Thank you for these two questions. Indeed, the IMP is a structural-determining enterprise for this area. I believe that his place, as part of the country's portfolio, is in the right place. The only thing that needs to be changed, however, is that the state must be a really good owner. This means that, as a private company has shareholders, in this case private shareholders, so in the case of the MFF in fact, being a state company, there are shareholders taxpayers. My direct answer is: the strategy of the Ministry of Economy is to leave the Ministry of Economy in the list of enterprises of strategic importance owned by the state, but not just to be there, but to be actively managed, to carefully monitor what is happening. Priority number one is, of course, to keep jobs in the company, but priority number two is to manage that this company actually gives money back to the state. We need to get into the role of the good owner, and this is through transparency, direct control, full information about the companies that are suppliers, who are the companies that are customers, and we need to make sure that both groups of companies are selected for one and only purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u323	Thank you. We move on to a next question from Radomir Cholakov on late payments under the procedure - Support for small enterprises with a turnover of more than 500 000 BGN. to address the economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u324	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, our voter Mr. Peter Ivanov asked us to ask you this question. It is about the support for small enterprises with turnover of more than 500 000 BGN and as Mrs. President said. The guy owns a small enterprise. The caretaker government has announced that it grants funding to an amount, if I understand correctly, at 106,5 million. lv. He applied, he's approved, he's on the list and they tell him there's no money, you wait. The question is very simple: will it wait for our voter, or will it not wait? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u325	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u326	Thanks for asking. The short answer is yes, it will wait. The long answer is that 6090 proposals were submitted under this measure and the Evaluation Committee launched the evaluation procedure on 16 March. In view of the process, the Commission has adopted simplification of the rules and has taken relatively rapid action in order to be able to process this huge list of companies that want to participate. The Managing Authority issued a total of 1097 refusal decisions on July 7th, but started the negotiation process for 1555 companies. So if your client is in them, these companies on 28 July are actually invited to enter into contracts and already 501 candidates from these companies have filed their papers and 163 contracts have already been concluded. Meanwhile, the Managing Authority has taken action to increase the overall budget under the procedure and, as you rightly said, the overall budget has increased to 184.6 million. BGN, which will allow the financing of a total of 3700 enterprises. Within the month of August, the process has been further changed and we hope to simplify even more ways to process so many companies next week. I hope that your client [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] He'll see these funds soon enough. The point is with 6090 clients, I think we've made some pretty good progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u327	For a line, Mr. Cholakov. What kind of client are we gonna find out? [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u328	I thank you for the answer of the Minister. I give it to the lapsus on your part and your way of thinking that everything should be paid for and that everything is customers, deals, businesses and commissions. Voter, Mr. Minister, not a client! I said selector. Voters are more important than customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u329	For the coat, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u330	Thanks for the fix. I want to say that when the state sees every company in Bulgaria's economy as a customer that it has to serve, and every taxpayer as a shareholder, I think that Bulgaria will be managed in a more transparent and good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u331	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question to Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev from Georgi Kadiev about the actions of the Executive Director of the NRA Mr. Rumen Spetsov when selling shares of his company in 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u332	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, on 14 May 2021 you appoint Mr. Rumen Spetsov as Executive Director of the NRA. Mr. Spetzov has a long-standing internship in the NRA's system in Dobrich and Sofia until 2015, when he leaves the system. His highest-ranking position is the head of a sector of 12 people at the Department of Special Cases Investigation (NRA) in the Directorate-General of the NRA (Sofia). According to an investigation of the site Bird.bg and an inspection in the Commercial Register after leaving the Agency in 2015 on 16 June 2015, Mr. Spetzov bought out the shares of the company "Granex Trader" Ltd. On 7 April 2016, several months later, he sold his shares to a minor with participation in over 25 companies. At the time of the sale of the shares, Granex Trader Ltd. was in revision, and in all likelihood there has already been a revision report. The exact date of the revision report and the recipient of the report can be immediately established in the NRA system, as all revision reports have been available in this system since 2012. There you can see the exact date of the start of the revision, who received the audit notification and the periods covered by the revision. Seventy days after the sale of the shares of the company was issued a revision act in the name of the new owner and manager Danail Nikolov and was served by service under art. 32 of the DODK, which is used when not finding the person at the address. All this means that the revision started in a period in which Mr. Spetzov was the manager and owner of the company, was aware of the periods that covered the revision, as well as the expected conclusions at the time when he sold his shares to a person with criminal registrations. As a result of these actions, the company never covers its obligations and to this day owes more than 1.5 million. lv. NRA principal plus interest. Despite your requests for verification of these actions by Mr. Spetsov, the results have not been announced for more than 75 days. The realistic time for carrying out this verification in the NRA system shall be no more than five minutes. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: on what date has the revision started of the Granex Trader and to whom has the audit order been issued? What periods covers the revision and covers periods during which Mr. Spetsov was the CEO of Granex Trader Ltd.? What date has the revision report been issued, which precedes the revision act, and from whom has it been received at Granex Trader EOOD? And last question: do you consider as a minister that the sale of shares was carried out to avoid payment of tax liabilities? Thank you. [[Applause. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u333	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. For an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u334	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. I think that this issue is important to be cleared, as it is about the largest revenue agency in the country. As you know, we have asked the Attorney General to carry out a check of all these actions, we have done a check in parallel to answer your questions. According to the Trade Register, as you said, on 16 June 2015 a transfer of all company shares to Mr. Roumen Spetsov was entered. To the question: when did the audit begin? A little less than two months after the transfer of company shares began revision. The revision began on 10 August 2015 with the issuance of an order for the award of a revision. The order was given to the manager on September 23, 2015 at this date, Mr. Spetsov, that is, two months after he bought the company, Mr. Spetsov entered the audit. To the question: what periods does the revision cover? The revision covers the determination of VAT liabilities for a period from 1 January 2014 to 31 May 2015 and corporate tax for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. The revision in question, as you can see, does not cover periods in which Mr. Rumen Spetsov was manager or owner of the company, i.e. the revision covers a previous period before he was manager or owner. Mr. Spetzov sells a company of Granex Trader Ltd. on 7 April 2016. At the date of the sale of Granex Trader there are no obligations to the NRA, there is no handwritten act. The act was awarded on 17 June 2016 and was served, as you said, indecently under art. 32. At this time Mr. Spetsov was not the manager or owner of Granex Trader. About your last question. According to the DPC, it is possible that, if legal entities do not pay off, the managers who were at the time of the accumulation of those obligations could be held liable. In this case, the obligations and the revision cover a period in which Mr. Spetsov was neither a manager nor a co-owner. In order to verify all the facts and to confirm them, as you do not necessarily believe me as Minister of Finance or the Government, we have asked the Prosecutor General to take all possible action to establish these facts and, if there is a need to take further action or checks, to notify us as well as to inform the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u335	Thank you. For a line, Mr. Kadyev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u336	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. What I understand from your answer is that the revision does not cover periods in which Mr. Spetsov was the manager and owner of the company. The answer you did not give, however, is: on what date was the revision report submitted and from whom was it received in Granex Trader? The revision report precedes the revision act. It enables the person to make comments, additional comments, additional data on the basis of which the NRA already issued the revision act. If the audit report was issued at the time Mr. Spetsov was the manager and owner, he knew what he was writing, he knew what revision act to expect, he knew where things were going. My question is actually: did he sell the shares because he knew that he was coming after 70 days of revision, in which he had obligations of about 1 million. BGN, then interest is accumulated for another half million leva additional and in fact the purpose of the sale of the shares is to avoid the payment of tax liabilities to the NRA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u337	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u338	As far as I can see, the revision act, as you said on 17 June 2016 under art. 32, unattainable. As to whether Mr. Spetsov sold the company one or... [[(Noise. Replies from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u339	That's the act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u340	I'm gonna have to answer that because he's not in front of me... [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] We'll check for the report as well. But there's something else I want to tell you, which is also important. The revision covers a period.. as you said, as I told you, when Mr. Spetsov is neither a manager nor a co-owner. So whatever comes out in this revision, it has nothing to do with Mr. Spetsov, who acquired the company afterwards, as you very well know, as it is written in the DOD. So I don't see why anyone would be afraid of any act or report, provided that it covers a period in which he didn't have any cashiership at all to the company concerned. And as for the sale of the company, in a private conversation I asked Mr. Spetsov why he bought, respectively why he sold the company, what he told me was that the company had a license to trade grain. As soon as he enters the audit, this license is obviously starting to become.. absolutely denying him credit from banks and so on until the revision is completed and he sells it even before the revision and delivery of the act. At that time, in his day, the company had no active economic activity. So I don't think there's any cause for concern. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] As I have repeatedly stated, Mr. Spetsov is doing an excellent job at the NRA, raising significantly the collection rate. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] If there's anything you want to say, you can tell me outside on the sidelines. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u341	Mrs. Alexandrova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u342	I have complete confidence in Mr. Spetsov, as I have repeatedly stated. I say again that we have given it to the prosecution and that they should have the appropriate checks..................................... for these problems to be taken appropriate measures by the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u343	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u344	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u345	Really? Okay. [[Relations of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] That's right, I didn't see you in the stands today.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u346	That's right. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, parliamentary control, as in the Rules of Procedure, is about asking questions and getting clear answers, which we have been continuing to receive for three months now from the Ministry of Finance on a very simple and simple question. We are not getting an answer, but we expect the same people to manage the state's finances, to manage the state's budget. As you cannot check for three months a simple fact, how can we expect to see the update of the budget that you are preparing and importing to the National Assembly? How can we believe that if you can not handle the most simple check, as Mr. Kadiev has said for five minutes, you have managed to make a decent bill to change the state budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u347	We get it, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u348	There's still time, Madam President. That's why I only have one request. Mr. Vassilev, resign! Give way to someone who understands, who can submit a decent bill, explain it and present it qualitatively to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u349	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. We expect the date of the revision document from the Minister, just as he made a commitment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u350	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u351	Here you are, in the manner of conduct! I hope you can at least tell us what the specific violation is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u352	Dear Madam President, why do you allow procedures in the manner of conduct that are not in the manner of conduct? [[Heckling]] Now we had to clearly understand that GERB would vote against the update of the budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u353	Oh, they didn't say that. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u354	How could they not say that? They just said they don't trust the budget update. [[Comments from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u355	Mr. Delchev, let us not enter into the stage of discussion of bills, this is now a completely different phase.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u356	They don't have confidence in the extra pension payments, they don't have confidence that business should receive funds, they don't trust that medical workers should receive....
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u357	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. I understand that Mr. Vasiliev is glowing his passions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u358	...supplementary means for the first line. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] You don't trust me!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u359	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u360	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u361	We move on to the Minister of Defence Georgi Panayotov on a request from Velizar Shalamanov and Kaloyan Yankov on the implementation of the Program for the Development of the Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria You're welcome to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u362	Thank you. Madam President, Members of Parliament, Ministers! Mr. Panayotov, our question with Mr. Iankov is focused on an extremely important issue related to the rearming of the Bulgarian army. It is an issue that has been on the agenda for at least the last 20 years. For a very long time, in fact, we did not have a re-arming plan that would be financially secure, supported by parliament and adequately controlled its implementation by parliament. We are addressing you because of the high trust in the caretaker government, with respect to your experience in NATO, Afghanistan, in the United States and the experience gained over the past two months in the Ministry of Defence, because we want to work together to improve governance in the field of defence. First of all, this is the Program for development of the defence capabilities of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament in 2015. [[Shows it.]] But to this day, we have no record of the implementation of this programme, an assessment of the implementation of this programme. So the first question of asking is: how many billion have been spent implementing this program? What abilities have been acquired? What is the assessment of the adequacy of these capabilities to the requirements of the objectives of the forces and of the interoperability requirements in NATO? There is a very specific solution here with which this programme has been adopted. It says that the total number of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria should be not less than 37 thousand people................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to point out further, although this programme has not been assessed, no report has been submitted to parliament, in February 2021 Parliament has been practically without debate and without participation in the plenary of the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence adopted a Program for the Development of Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria until 2032. The programme continues to be quite vague, but such numbers are mentioned, such as 36 billion. BGN, 188 abilities and other important numbers. So my second question on behalf of Kaloyan Yankov and on my behalf is: what is your assessment of the reality of this programme adopted by Parliament? Has an investment plan-programme already been developed? How many billion do you plan to spend on what abilities? Will this really result in Bulgaria's vulnerability to maintaining arms and equipment from the Russian Federation, Belarus and other countries outside NATO and the European Union? Finally, as a sub-question: in 1999 we introduced a system for planning, programming and budgeting in the Ministry of Defence. In 2014 we introduced a project management system "Prince 2" and there was a decision of the Council of Ministers to expand with a system for management of programs and a system for management of services. Is there a capacity in the Ministry of Defence to use these models for the professional management of projects, programmes and services, so that these 36 billion provided for in Programme 2032 lead to public benefit and in a most effective and sustainable way and the risks faced by this type of programme are completed in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u363	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. Here you are, Mr. Minister. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u364	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Shalamanov, Mr. Yankov! I would like to say immediately that six fundamental questions about defence policy have been asked, the answer of any one of them can fit in within two hours, but I am forced to comply with the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. About the evaluation of Programme 2020. The draft annual report on the state of defence and the armed forces for the last year included a separate section on the implementation of the 2020 Programme and the Development Plan of the Armed Forces by 2020. The main conclusion of the analysis and assessment is that with the implementation of the Programme and the Plan the Bulgarian Armed Forces have entered a qualitatively new stage, setting the beginning of their re-arming and their modernisation. A sustained increase in defence spending has been achieved, and with the financial resources that have been spent over the years, I stress key capabilities for the armed forces. However, the practical objectives of the 2020 Programme are taken into account in the 2032 Programme. What are the unfulfilled goals? No investment plan-programme 2020 has been adopted, the main projects for modernization of the armed forces have not been implemented, the capabilities objectives of NATO Package 2017 have not been fully met, and we also have a problem with personnel. Regarding the plans of the Ministry of Defence for implementation of Programme 2032. The 2032 programme is a strategic document with a time horizon of 2032, synchronized with NATO defence planning processes. The programme is the basis for planning, building and development of the minimum necessary defense capabilities within the allocated financial resources in the budget and according to the National plan for increasing the cost of defence to 2% of Bulgaria's GDP by 2024. The Programme 2032 noted that there are more capabilities that can and must be built if additional resources are provided for this, as you rightly mentioned....from 188 objectives are actually being implemented, 38 are being built. It should be noted that, for 2021, for this year, the defence expenditure is estimated to be below the GDP set out in the National Plan 1.64%. Amendments and additions to the Defence and Armed Forces Act have been made for the implementation of Programme 2032. By order of the Minister of Defence, the structures of the armed forces are defined, in which organisational and state changes will take place under Plan 2026 in 2021, the deadlines for implementation and the number of military formations. The transformation of the structures and the development of the armed forces of Bulgaria, as set out in Plan 2026, are in line with the identified priority projects. On whether a project for an investment plan was available until 2032 and when it will be presented to the National Assembly, the project for an investment plan-programme was prepared and examined at the end of April, namely on 27 April 2021, at a meeting of the Defence Council to the Minister of Defence, it was adopted for information and a decision was taken to be reviewed and detailed. Although it is within the powers and must be adopted by the Council of Ministers, I think it is useful that the draft investment plan-programme is also presented and discussed in the Committee on Defence and why not in the Committee on Budget and Finance of the National Assembly, taking into account their recommendations. To your question: according to the available estimates under Programme 2032, what part of the armed forces will still rely on the weapons produced in the Soviet Union by the end of the period and whether it is possible to avoid payment to Russia and Belarus in the budget 2022. This is an extremely important issue and I can say the following: Despite the new weapons and equipment acquired in recent years and signed contracts, in the coming years, the reality is such that we will have to continue to rely on an essential part of the available weapons systems produced in the Soviet Union or under the license of countries from the former Soviet Union, with the clear aim of removing them from use until the end of the period. For the state of assembly with personnel in the armed forces, the incompletion is approximately 19%. Its overcoming creates favourable conditions for recruitment, development and preservation of appropriate human resources and achieving an adequate level of pay for people's work in defence under labour market conditions. I would immediately like to answer your question in relation to the methodology introduced in 2014. The methodology "Prince 2', the project approach based on this methodology, the full name of which is "Management of projects in a controlled environment "Prince 2', as you are well aware, has been introduced in the Ministry of Defence in 2014 and is applied to the entire portfolio of the projects of the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. In this regard, in 2016 the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria added a function of the Minister of Defence for the implementation of the general management of the Ministry's project management.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u365	Minister, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u366	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u367	Mr. Shalamanov, you are entitled to two supplementary questions with a total duration of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u368	Madam President! Mr. Minister, thank you for your specific answers to most of the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the two supplementary questions are related to the specifics of Programme 2020, namely what part of the maintenance and modernisation of the main weapons Su-25, MiG-29, MI-17, MI-24, Te-72, radar, anti-aircraft missile complexes and other equipment is carried out directly or through subcontractors outside NATO countries and how many million levs have been spent within Programme 2020 for such activities that are carried out outside Bulgaria and outside NATO and the European Union? Do you have an estimate of what part of the Bulgarian taxpayers' money under Programme 2032 will continue to be spent in countries outside NATO, outside Bulgaria instead of being used to develop our defence industry and industrial cooperation with NATO and European Union countries? My second question is quite specific: where in Bulgaria are produced the notorious 50 armored machines for the special operations forces - a contract with which the Minister of Defence Karakachanov was very proud for 50 million? And what part of this production is being implemented by subcontractors of companies outside NATO and the European Union? This is an extremely important issue, as we have talked here about how much money is needed for helicopters, for firefighters and so on, and these armored machines were suddenly taken as a high priority. By the way, I can assure you that they are not part of Programme 2020. Finally, I would like to point out that, in "Democratic Bulgaria" we are seriously concerned that already 18 years of NATO membership, the main costs of maintaining arms and equipment go beyond Bulgaria and, in particular, to countries outside NATO and the European Union, and we believe that this should be terminated with the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u369	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have three minutes to answer the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u370	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. What is the amount of su-25, mig-29, mi-17 and so on? I can then give, at the moment I do not have the exact number, but I can immediately confirm that some of the technique you have referred to specifically Su-25, naturally MiG-29, are being repaired in countries outside the European Union and outside NATO. As is known, Su-25 aircraft were renovated in Belarus, while MiG-29 are being renovated by the Russian airline MiG-29. That is, it's called MiG. No 29, but it's repairing MiG-29 aircraft. Under a framework agreement that expires in March next year, but which is practically exhausted. I mean, all the amounts provided for under this agreement have not yet been paid off, all the services have not been delivered. We are waiting for this to happen after about a month or two RCK MIG to fulfil its obligations under the framework agreement. But, yes, it is a fact that Bulgaria pays countries outside the European Union and NATO to repair its military equipment. Again, the exact amounts for all repairs I commit to providing you with further. About the armored machines. You're talking about armored machines for Special Operations. However, as you know, the project for armored machinery for the needs of land troops has not been implemented. This is a project to be implemented. The public order on it practically failed. T-72 tanks are currently being renovated in Terem and are refurbished by a country that is outside the European Union and NATO, which is being upgraded with the participation of a company from the state of Israel. That I can answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u371	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Shalamanov. You have the floor for expressing respect for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u372	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Panayotov, thank you for your answers. It's a really big theme. As you have pointed out, it is about the EUR 2032 million that has been reported in. BGN, but in fact the topic is much more significant because it is a huge amount of equipment worth billions, which is subject to utilization, and this should be done in the best way for Bulgaria, for the Bulgarian taxpayers, as well as opportunities for offset policy with a financial dimension in the interest of development of the Bulgarian economy and technological renewal with the amount of this funding, which is greater than the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the stand-up BG! There is such a people for the support next Friday to have debates on this issue and to take a decision. That's why I'm making this request. [[Passing it to the President]] because the issue of re-arming is extremely important. We see that there are already populist speeches to remove him from the priorities of the National Assembly. We have spent a lot of time and we will continue to spend time on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which is a plan with European money - 12 billion and something - and we cannot find the time to devote to the most important issue for the Republic of Bulgaria - the re-arming of the armed forces, which under art. 9 of the Constitution guarantee the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here is the moment, I use this high tribune to express on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria my respect and recognition to the uniformed officers of the Ministry of Defence, who not only protect territorial integrity and sovereignty, but in every crisis in the event of fires, floods, a type of crisis, are on line one. Therefore, the re-arming of the army and the development of the armed forces is an issue which I believe should be at the attention of the Bulgarian Parliament on equal terms with all the other issues that we are debating here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u373	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. In connection with the previous inquiry, by letter No 46-154-00-12 of 13 August 2021, submitted today at 10:46 p.m., a request was received to hold a debate on the question No 46-154-05-19 of 4 August 2021 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Velizar Shalamanov and Kaloyan Jankov to the Minister of Defence Georgi Panayotov on the realization of the Defence Capacity Development Program of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2032 and an assessment of the implementation of the Defence Program of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020. The proposal for debates and the draft decision are signed by 50 MPs. The requirement of art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure more than one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly shall make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting, designated for parliamentary control. That concludes the questions to Minister Panayotov. We are moving on to Stoycho Katsarov, Minister of Health. Question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on the implementation of the vaccination plan in the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the number of vaccines. Here you go, Dr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u374	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! My question is quite specific to you: in what volumes of different manufacturers and in what order have vaccines been ordered in relation to the CIVID-19 pandemic in Bulgaria; what volume of these orders are carried out as delivery in Bulgaria; what volume of these vaccines per producer remain unrealized so far in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u375	Thank you, Dr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Minister Katsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u376	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, regarding the time limits for the delivery of the ordering of vaccines: On August 27, Bulgaria stated a quantity of AstraZeneca vaccine of 4 million 518 thousand 232 doses. On October 21, Bulgaria requested the delivery of vaccines to Johnson & Johnson of 2 million doses. On 20 November 2020, Bulgaria requested the delivery of vaccines by Pfizer-BioNTech of one million doses at a possible quota of 4.65 million doses. On December 4, she requested a supply of 500 thousand doses of Moderna's vaccine. As of August 10, the total number of quantities requested for 2021 is as follows: AstraZeneca Or in total for 2021 Bulgaria has requested 13 million 909 thousand 963 vaccines. The currently delivered doses as of August 10, 2021: Vaxzervia 1 million 183 thousand 200 doses; Comirnaty 2 million 903 thousand 940 doses; Spikevax 519 The following quantities are also applied on August 10th: Vaxzervia
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u377	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u378	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! From your answer, and this has already been commented in the past and in the previous National Assembly, it is quite clear that there is a severe disbalance of the diversification of the vaccines ordered at the beginning, which created the exceptional problem during the worst wave of COVID-19 Bulgarian citizens to remain practically free of vaccines. On top of that, due to the failure of the government at that time, an additional psychological barrier of the nation to one of these vaccines has been created, which proved later that there is no greater volume and seriousness of side effects than its application to individual citizens, but still remains virtually unholy. Therefore, my desire in relation to the publications that are currently present in the media that Bulgaria is in negotiations to donate vaccines is not knowing what are the considerations of the Kingdom of Bhutan and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Perhaps you will explain this to us: from which manufacturers these vaccines will be donated and how, how will responsibility for this wrong diversification be taken, which led to very serious consequences at the beginning of the vaccination calendar in Bulgaria and all resulting from what follows? And my last remark is not a remark, but a mark is that it is currently being discussed by many manufacturers introducing a new type of vaccine. What is your attitude as a principal to this problem and the measures that the Ministry of Health will take for the possible provision of this type of vaccine? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u379	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the backrest in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u380	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, yes, things are just like you said. The reduced number of supplies from the order of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine led to the small number of vaccinations carried out in January and February, for the simple reason that this was at this time the only vaccine that was authorised. And since our request is for a million, but it gets proportional, it's a request for the whole year, so the quantities that are at the beginning are small. As regards the actions taken for donation and resale, the following actions have been taken: for Bhutan 172 500 doses of Vaxzervia vaccines; for Bosnia and Herzegovina These actions have been taken to prevent the destruction of vaccines due to the slow vaccination process in our country. There are enough vaccines available to vaccinate the population by the end of the year. These donated quantities are not an obstacle to providing the population with vaccines by the end of the year. Our country has stated sufficient quantities for vaccination of the entire population of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines, it has entered into the new Treaty of the European Commission for 2022 and 2023. Our country has also declared participation in a vaccine developed in Austria, which is another principle, which is a deadly attenuated virus, a complete one. It's different from the vaccines imported so far. We've made such a request, we're in the contract. This vaccine has not yet been authorised, but it gives an additional opportunity to react. When authorised for use, the country will be able to deliver the required quantities from it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u381	Thank you, Minister Katsarov. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Georgiev Mihailov and Krum Georgiev Donchev on the funds provided for health care in the Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u382	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister Katsarov! Many discussions have been heated about the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and so far things seem to be unsolved for all kinds of reasons from different countries. What we were paid attention to at an international meeting is that in the original plan Bulgaria had planned a relatively very low percentage of about 7% of this recovery and sustainability plan in the field of health. We talked about these matters in private with you. My specific question to you, I have examined carefully what is now being presented is: is there any funds allocated to one of the most early issues in the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u383	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u384	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the percentage is the same that... it can't be changed because that's how the framework is agreed. We have completely revised the Plan, because almost half of it was intended for construction and repair works and isolation of medical institutions, we changed it according to the objectives of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and now the huge part is related to modernization and digitalization of Bulgarian healthcare. There is no specific feather in relation to the National Programme for Transplants for the simple reason that the National Programme in its 14 activities does not include those that could be included in the National Plan. Medical establishments dealing with transplantation activities in relation to the purchase of new equipment may apply at the first point of our project proposal, namely the modernisation of the health system by providing modern innovative medical equipment for hospital care facilities for which 374 million are planned. lv. They can also be used to purchase equipment needed for medical facilities that deal with transplantation in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u385	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u386	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! Over the past three years, the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria has dealt with the late dramatic transplant program in Bulgaria several times. Unfortunately, for subjective reasons, some progress has not been made so far. I do not want to report the figures, they are extremely professional, but they are very sad for Bulgaria with regard to the data on the "European Transplant" in relation to the cell transplantation. I thank you for your clarity. The issue is from here on and the Ministry under your leadership, while under your leadership, and the next principal to pay serious attention to what you said: the first point is the possibility of purchasing equipment. So, I take the liberty of saying this to the esteemed audience, we are at a stage of lag behind some fragments of the Transplant Program that may put us in a situation of inability to carry it out due to the lack of the possibility of exchanging cells or organs in the very next one or two years. And this must be overcome very urgently, otherwise the program itself as an existence is threatened by its nature. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u387	Thank you. Would you like time to do the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? Let's move on to the next question. Question from the National Representative Maya Bozhidarova Manolova on the repealed Regulation on hygiene requirements for the health protection of the settlement environment. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u388	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In May 2011, the Ministry of Health repealed the Regulation on Hygiene requirements for health protection in the settlements Depending on the pollution, these sites should be constructed at distances up to 3 km from the settlements. However, with the repeal of this regulation, the obligation for investors to observe these reservations, which practically untied the hands of dozens of people, hundreds of economically strong entities, oligarchs, local feudals, who built sites that pollute the environment within the settlements. I can give examples, as the civil platform "Rise up БГ!" we have been in dozens of settlements and have defended the causes of the local population against the poisoning of air and water productions. For example, if there was still this regulation, it would be impossible to build the garbage incinerator in the center of Sofia, because there for such an installation the requirement would be 6 km away from the settlement or at least 1 km away from residential buildings, and we all know that against the future garbage burning plant in the center of Sofia a huge residential building is being built at the moment. In the same way, it would be impossible for a company close to Kiril Domuschiev to build other than a hazardous waste incineration plant, but also a landfill to store hazardous waste. Similarly, there would be no problem in Devnya, where several incinerators for hazardous waste are being built near the buildings in the village. I can list the plant for biogas from animal waste in Nova Zagora. People protest constantly, or the burning of waste in the Vratsa village of Beli spring, the pig farm of five thousand animals near the Vidin town of Danube would not exist if this regulation were in force. I promised and will mention several more scandalous cases: the woodworking plant in the petri dish village of Belasitsa, where we have been and people cannot live normally; the Plovdiv careers to Belashtitsa and to Prvenets; the Sofia careers to Dragovishtitsa. Thank God, the citizens, and we from the civil platform. We managed to prevent the construction of installations to burn waste in Shumen and Popovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u389	Mrs. Manolova, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u390	Dear Minister, my question to you is: do you, as minister of the service, take action to restore this regulation, to this sub-legal regulation that will ensure the normal lives of people in many settlements?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u391	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u392	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, in fact, the Ordinance was repealed in 2011 as it was considered that it overlaps with the requirements of the Environmental and Water Act and the making of EIAs of individual enterprises located near or not populated areas. The analysis of the regulations confirms your words that there is a need, as what has regulated Regulation No7 is not fully covered by the requirements of the Law on the Environment and Waters, which is why I have already ordered, a working group has been set up and two things are being worked on. The preparation of a new regulation and the preparation of a change in the Law on Health is not fully covered by the requirements of the Law on the Environment and Waters, which is why I believe will be in the interest of protecting the health and life of people from populated areas and not allowing construction of polluting objects in close proximity to them or even inside them, as you rightly noted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u393	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u394	Dear Minister, it is the duty of the institutions to provide a favourable environment for the lives of Bulgarian citizens, cleared of contaminated air, dirty water or without odors. And in my capacity as Ombudsman, who advocates the constitutional rights of citizens, I have addressed several health ministers, they change quickly there, demanding that the texts of this regulation be restored. Unfortunately, neither official nor regular ministers since 2011 have paid attention to this huge problem. People are waiting for some rules to give them a normal life. I would like to point out that, in the end, the existence of this regulation is not in the interest of investors either, or at least that part of them, who claim to be conscientious. If there are requirements to make them build their industrial sites at distances from the settlements, there will be no civil protests, civil discontent and irreparable damage to the normal lives of the citizens of Peshtera, people from the village of Trud are constantly protesting. Last week there were protests in Kazanlak and Stara Zagora. In Nova Zagora, people have not stopped protesting the smells. But as long as there are no rules, there can be no normal life for Bulgarian citizens and normal development of settlements. So my appeal is: however long the life of the office is, to take all the necessary action so that the work on this regulation will progress and people will be able to live normally in a clean environment in Bulgaria in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u395	Thank you. Would you like to use the back? No. We move on to the final question to Minister Katsarov. A question from MP Desislava Atanasova about hospital care facilities. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u396	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Dear Minister, according to art. 9, para. 9 of the Law on Hospitals, in the territory of a state hospital hospital can operate another hospital care facility only on condition that clinics, wards and laboratories of the two hospital care facilities carry out various medical activities. My question to you is: how many and which state hospital care facilities, despite the requirements of the Law, carry out other medical facilities with the same medical activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u397	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u398	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, in connection with your question to me, I requested from the Executive Agency a medical supervision, which is the control body for compliance with this text of the Law, to report to me how many and which hospitals exist in violation of the Law, as you noted. Their report says that no medical establishment operates in violation of the Law to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u399	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova, no further questions? With this we have exhausted the questions to Minister Katsarov. Next are the questions to Violeta Komitova, Minister of Service for Regional Development and Public Works. The issue is from the National Representative Borislav Gutsanov on the construction of the Black Sea Motorway (Black Sea) as part of the route of the Corridor (North-South) that connects Istanbul, Burgas, Varna and Constanta, including the second bridge in Varna on the navigable sea channel (North-South) lake. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u400	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, more than 10 years ago I started a conversation about the construction of the Black Sea Motorway, but not as a section of Burgas Varna, but as a corridor There were three possibilities that were laid down in Varna's General Development Plan for the construction of this bridge. Despite the efforts of the local legislature and of the local executive power and of the governments between 2005 and 2011, unfortunately this project of extreme importance was frozen not only for Varna and Burgas but for the development of the country. Only in 2019 has a procedure been announced for the development of an extended project with full engineering and geology studies, detailed development plan, plotted plan for the Black Sea Motorway. As far as I know, in October 2020, following a procedure under the Public Procurement Act, a contract was concluded to implement the activities. So I ask you, Madam Minister, to give us an explanation: what is the real value of the contract awarded? What are the deadlines for the execution of this order? Is there a MRRB and the Road Infrastructure Agency (RIT) information about the stage at which the design for the Black Sea Motorway is located? What are the steps set in the Ministry for realization of the project after its adoption and within what deadlines can this happen? Are funds provided for its implementation and from what sources are these funds? Are talks planned with the governments of Turkey and Romania on connecting the route of the Black Sea Highway on the territory of Bulgaria in a common transport corridor, as I have just called it the North-South? Is there a transport link of the highway of the Black Sea with the key water, railway and road freight facilities along the highway route as well as its connection to the highway of Hemus and Trakia Motorway? Is the construction of the only facility currently planned for the Asparuhov Bridge, which is in poor condition, I would say, before the construction of the Black Sea Motorway and the second bridge over Varna? What kind of money is this? Can this repair of the Asparuh bridge be done within normal limits and deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u401	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Madam Minister, you have the floor for a response within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u402	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gutsanov, you are very well aware of the 26 October 2020 public procurement. It's about designing. The value of this design to Plot Plan is the last task of this design, which means a detailed design plan. The value of this design is 9 million. 516 thousand. lv. with VAT. The order period is 365 calendar days. This year is supposed to be the completion of this project phase of the highway on October 20th. What has been done to date? The first project of this project was submitted in May 2021. Accordingly, on 16 July a meeting of the Expert Council was held and it presents the options of the motorway route, which is always done in the beginning, there are three options, three alternative routes in specific sections. These option solutions are subject to an EIA report. This specific choice will be defined by the "Compatibility Assessment" of the sites defined, as the route hardly passes through urbanised environments, but mostly through the "Rest" areas. The second and third stages will continue to be developed after choosing one of the three options and agreeing it with the Ministry of Environment and Water under these two procedures that I mentioned. The second stage of the project covers geodesic activities, situational, universe solution and so on. All these decisions must end with a detailed plan. When we establish the detailed development plan, we have finally specified the route of each road in Bulgaria, including this highway. The third stage already includes the final development of a Detailed Development Plan, which should be adopted and so on and action on alienation, property forfeiture and so on should be taken. With the last stage of the project, when we approve this design route, because it is only a design, we are not an engineering in this case, a public contract should be announced to execute the entire motorway, which we cannot yet pronounce how much it will cost. Sources of funding. The previous government has taken action in this area. We have arrangements to finance this. As far as they will come true, I cannot say, but these are steps taken by API and the Bulgarian Development Bank. They will be the possible sponsors on this route. With regard to our contacts with neighbouring countries. I cannot answer whether the previous regular government has had such talks. In the line of duty, I assure you that no such conversation has been made. With regard to the intended transport connections. Of course, the highway will not pass through settlements, but in certain places links will be sought between road connections and the nearest settlements, as well as a link to the highway We have a very serious problem at the intersection of Varna and Beloslav Lake. Regarding the repair of the Asparuh bridge. From 2016 to 2020, a total of six of the 11 facilities on the Asparuh Bridge were renovated. Now I can't tell you how much these repairs were worth, but in June and July last year road connections have been repaired from and for the district of Asparuhovo. In February of this year API has entrusted to a company Accordingly, there is to be repair of left lane in the direction of Varna for 26 million; left sidewalk console for 8 million. 200,000. lv. The estimated deadline for the implementation of these activities shall be 31 May of the following calendar year. Also in March this year, a technological project was commissioned for facilities 7, 8, 11 and road links to them, which are discussed at the Expert Council in Regional Road Management Varna and to date have been returned for the removal of gaps and remarks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u403	Madam Minister, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u404	Okay. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-13.u405	Mr. Gutsanov, you have the floor for a line, if you like. Colleagues, we have exhausted the time of the vote today, including its extension. We're adjourned. The next meeting on Wednesday 18 August 2021, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
