ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! As of today, the registration is now in biometrics. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly's Work Programme for 28 July 2021: "1." Hearing of the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly concerning statements of illegal wiretapping of politicians and citizens by the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. 2. Termination of the powers of a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. Ilko Zhelyazkov submitted a request for early termination of his powers. 3. Termination of a Member of the Commission's powers of public oversight of registered auditors. A letter submitted by the President of the Commission for public oversight of the registered auditors with an application from Stefan Belchev. 4. Draft decision to cancel the Summer Holiday of the National Assembly for 2021. Importers suppose Victoria Vasileva and a group of MPs. 5. Hearing of Stoycho Katsarov "Office Minister of Health," on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the preparation that is being carried out in the health system to meet a possible spike in the incidence of horse sickness in autumn and what measures the Ministry of Health is taking to address the problems in the management of the medical institutions, discussed widely in recent times, importers Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs, and on the vaccination campaign against COVID-19 and the readiness of the health system to deal with a new wave of Sars-cov-2, importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. 6. Hearing of Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Construction of National Children's Hospital. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. 7. Hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Stefan Yanev on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the financial and economic situation of the state of the caretaker government. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs 8. Hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Atanas Pekanov on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the changes made by the office under the plan and the readiness to submit to the European Commission. Importers: Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, point two for Thursday. 9. Hearing of the Minister of Economy Kiril Petkov on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Bulgarian Development Bank and a development strategy with a main mission to help small and medium-sized enterprises. Importers: Maria Capon and a group of MPs 10. Hearing of the President and the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the consideration and validation of the business plans of the water operators and the formation of prices of water supply and sewerage services through the method of the upper limit of prices. 11. Hearing of the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the status of the level of migration pressure and illegal migration in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of the caretaker government.............................................................................. 12. Parliamentary control under art. 95 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. There has also been a proposal for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs to include a draft decision for a requirement by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to submit to the National Assembly a Report on the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened with regard to Criminal Procedure for the period 1 January 2020. 30 June 2021, and hearing of the Prosecutor General according to art. 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I put to the vote the program I have read for the National Assembly's work for this week. Please, voting mode. Vote 204 MPs: 178 against 1, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov, I will now put your proposal to the vote, but first please specify, if accepted, which item on the agenda do you propose to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u2	Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u3	Tomorrow, after the hearings points. Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs for the draft decision, as I presented it. Vote 194 MPs: 187, against 6, abstention 1. The proposal shall be accepted as a point after the end of the hearings on tomorrow. Switching to taking an oath by a Member of the National Assembly. Please invite Mrs. Antoinette Stefanova. Here you are, Mrs. Stefanova, on the stand and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u4	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u5	I'll read you a few messages. Bills and draft resolutions entered in the period 22 July 2021: Draft decision to cancel the Summer Holiday of the National Assembly for 2021. Importers suppose Victoria Vasileva and a group of MPs. Eighth Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. Annual report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Importer Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Importer Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. Importer Maya Manolova-Naidenova and group of MPs. National Youth Strategy 2021 with attached draft decision. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission to clarify all facts and circumstances for the implementation of the SRS by the Ministry of Interior in relation to Bulgarian citizens participating in the election campaign and election process for the 40th and frequent National Assembly. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Report on the Commission's activities for public oversight of registered auditors in 2020. Importer "Commission for public oversight of registered auditors." A bill to supplement the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers "Maria Capon" and a group of MPs. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importers "Maria Capon" and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importers "Maria Capon" and a group of MPs. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers "Maria Capon" and a group of MPs. Draft decision to submit a report by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers - Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I inform you that today, 28 July 2021, has been submitted and made available to your service e-mails Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the Forty-sixth National Assembly, drawn up by the committee entrusted with this task. The time limit for written proposals shall be 18:00, Friday 30 July 2021. Application by Toma Lubomirov Bikov MP from GERB-SDS parliamentary group: I hereby inform you that on the basis of art. 23, para. 3, p. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am leaving the Chamber of the Temporary Committee for Investigation of Facts and Circumstances in the Use of Tear Gas, the Use of Force and Assistance by the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020, against protesters citizens, as well as to investigate facts and circumstances related to the application of special intelligence means of protesting citizens, opposition leaders and members of political parties from the opposition. Mrs. Capon, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Please put to the vote the inclusion of BNT 1 and BNR cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u7	Mrs. Capon, in connection with the hearings?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u9	I put this procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 187 MPs for 166, against 8, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please activate BNT and BNR cameras. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for a declaration on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The first week of this National Assembly is over. There was a cycle of talks that were initiated by our colleagues from "There is such a people" in connection with the establishment of a government. We believe that after a meeting of our parliamentary group, it is appropriate to give our perspective on how the process is going. The task of forming a government in this fractured parliament with so many dividing lines and with such complex political arithmetic and geometry is obviously complex, but we have promised our voters. I think the whole society expects to be formed not just any government and not at all, but a government that can really change Bulgaria, a government that can transform, and the key concept here for us is corruption. Corruption is what this government must be able to deal with. For us, this will be a test of how to assess whether the government deserves support or not. Corruption is a prerequisite for the implementation of all other policies in Bulgaria. This is what the European Commission tells us when they return notes on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. We are told by international investors, including in the summary of the State Department, where 24 times the word "Corruption" is repeated. I don't know why Borisov reads the evaluations of the agency and doesn't want to read this report? This should be very interesting, by the way. This is what our partners from the United States tell us with the intervention under the "Magnitski" because corruption in Bulgaria is not just an issue of investment climate, it is not just a matter of stopping the stealing of EU funds and of budget funds. Corruption is a fundamental problem of national security, corruption destroys institutions, destroys the republic. That is why we are putting this topic as a cornerstone of our approach in terms of drawing up a government. They tell us, by the way, and most importantly, those Bulgarian citizens who choose not to invest their future in Bulgaria and leave the country. We will support and work for a government that can tackle this problem. There are such people who have called for a series of talks, for which we thank and appreciate, but at this stage these are simply talks and they are not aimed at reaching an agreement. These conversations are conducted without announced names, so that we can assess whether the requests that are made are, firstly, a firm political commitment, and, secondly, to what extent the people who are offered can actually realise these requests, because this ultimately depends on the human factor. Thirdly, what we need to note is that the talks included the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. No one will be surprised that this is not something that we from "Democratic Bulgaria" will look at seamlessly, and this is a serious problem. We have repeatedly called on: the formula for future governance to step up to a clear will to ensure governance, not just the government, because governance is a process, and the government is merely a cabinet composition that is voted on once; the governance to enable it to implement a decisive programme, with a staff that can also offer it in a parliamentary configuration that can provide distance from GERB and from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There is no doubt that for GERB and for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens have voted, whose vote must be respected. There is no doubt that in the parliamentary groups of the two political formations there are many colleagues who can have a conversation and can work with. They are welcome, of course, to support the right decisions. The truth, however, and it has to be said honestly and frankly, is that these two political formations continue to be hostage in their cores of organized corruption groups around Borisov and around what we call the Ssaraya. On this evaluation I insist and am willing to prove it, including in the series of committees of inquiry that will prove this. Until this thing changes, until these legitimate political parties that have their place in the Bulgarian Parliament find no way to get rid of the status of a group of citizens who have a living shield on their corrupt cores, they should not be allowed to influence the future government, impose their agenda, trade with this influence, because this is the door through which corruption will enter. This is a clear reality from which we cannot hide and will not turn a blind eye to it. Yes, I understand arithmetic, but parliamentaryism, democracy, government, especially when we have to rebuild the republic, is more than arithmetic. Yes, I understand that perhaps some Sun Tzu lover seems very clever, so to speak, to use DPS against GERB, to see from a high mountain how the two tigers in the plane collide, but in 2013 we watched this, colleagues. In 2013 we watched this and what happened was that the two tigers tried to legitimize each other, tried to hide each other and cover up the dirty secret of their corruption connectivity. We can't let that happen now. So, if anyone really wants the support of a Democratic Bulgaria, if anyone wants it to be not just a fig leaf or a front, but a real partner, then we are ready. I am saying all this because I want to become a government, but a government that can truly transform Bulgaria. Please and I hope to be heard! We call on cabinet personnel to be selected very carefully by people who attract confidence and do not raise questions. [[Noise and lines from DPS and GERB.]] No, we don't offer our nominations, but there are people in the caretaker government, for example, who attract great trust and huge approval. It is difficult for me to understand: why not make an effort to integrate them into such an office? I specifically want to give an example and it is not limited to these three, but Kiril Petkov, Asen Vassilev, Professor Denkov are people who can contribute with great confidence to the composition of a future government. It will be very important for us that this government has a very clear programme commitment with several topics that are related to the possibility of releasing the Bulgarian statehood from corruption. First of all, a clear political commitment at the highest level to reform justice by changing the Constitution. Yeah, it's complicated, but we have to commit to trying to do it. Secondly, we must have a common vision and it should be shared in the parliamentary configuration that will support this government.. I do not call it a coalition to clear the regulators one by one of the corrupt ladybugs, because we cannot talk about a twist in how Bulgaria is managed anyway. Thirdly, the same way the services. They need to be cleaned one by one so that we can talk about change. We must implement measures that we have previously negotiated and committed to clearing the financial system of dirty money, because we cannot talk about fighting corruption without it. We must take measures to restore Bulgarian energy sovereignty. We need to implement a decisive package of measures relating to the sanctions under the "Magnitski". This is extremely important so that we can restore international trust in Bulgaria. Last but not least, although not directly related to corruption, we will expect a very clear vision of a political commitment with a clear programme to deal with the next wave. This is extremely important. Based on these programming priorities, we will expect a system of agreements or an agreement which, however, clearly configures the support for this management so that it can really keep at the pace of the movement for rights and freedoms and GERB. I say all this again, knowing and declaring that the most natural move is to try to create a government with the first term. Of course, we are ready to look at all other options, including us from the Democratic Bulgaria to be opposition. After all, if this Parliament cannot broadcast a meaningful government, let us return to the court of voters. I'm saying this because we really want to give support, but to give support to clear parameters, which I wanted to expose now. I know it's complicated, but it's because it's complicated that we have to try, and it's because it's complicated that we have to make every effort, not just looking for some easy tactical solutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u11	Your time is up, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u12	Yeah, just two sentences. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Sometimes tactics lose strategy. Because we love concrete actions, today we will start collecting signatures under a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to monitor the implementation of the measures under the "Magnitski" which will also answer the questions: why and how did the Bulgarian authorities sleep 700 million in gambling, why and how Peevski was absolutely untouchable so far? I think this committee will be a fundamental instrument for answering the question of systemic corruption in Bulgaria. I hope for your support. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u14	Thank you, Madam President. We heard another anti-DPS declaration. Mr. Ivanov, don't try to hide it again with anti-DPS rhetoric. The DPS is not a hostage of anything but is guided by the decisions of its competent authorities, but you are part of and are a product, including, naturally, and a hostage of an organised oligarchic-media NGO political group. [[Applause from DPS.]] It is personal about Mr. Prokopiev as a oligarch and a symbol of behind-the-scenes in Bulgarian politics, as a person who has media and economic power grabs political power without appearing in elections. For us, this is the content of the concepts of a conquered state and a facade democracy, which are your favorite labels for DPS. Whom and what do we refer to in the circle? The answer to this question can be easily found because Bulgarian media, analysts and politicians have been dealing with this topic for a quarter of a century and have well described it. I would just like to point out that political shamans headed by Ivan Krastev are the Bulgarian Confucius, according to the former prime minister, and NGOs from the Bulgarian divisions of the international Soros network. [[Noise and lines.]] One carriage of people has mastered this network and the common thing between you is that for the most part you are people coming from serious communist nomenclature families. [[Applause from DPS.]] Why is that, we let philanthropist George Soros explain. [[Noise and lines.]] We call this group as a joke this round organized criminal group in Bulgarian politics because at the dawn of Bulgarian democracy you privatized the right idea and the right political space, then large parts of the Bulgarian economy. [[Heckling]] You're right. For the media. You are making a cheap attempt to hide behind freedom of speech, claiming that revealing your behind-the-scenes role in recent decades is an attack on the media. We have never attacked journalists from the media controlled by you, but vice versa in many speeches in the media and in the parliamentary tribune we have made a difference between journalists and this group. It is enough to indicate only the instructions leaked in the public space to the journalists about who and what to write about. The recognition of the influence on the mainstream you control is sufficient proof of who is the media monopoly in Bulgaria. For decades you have performed active political engineering throughout the political space, including on external instructions. Examples: you split and destroyed the authentic right-wing SDS party through anti-DPS rhetoric; the same procedure you applied to the NDSV; you actively participated in the creation of the Boyko Borisov project and on external instructions. The list of engineering products is long........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is a serious work on fragmentation of the right political space and as a result for two decades in Bulgaria there is no authentic right party. Overall, this is an obstruction of the democratic process in Bulgaria. You are destroying democracy in Bulgaria. [[Applause from DPS.]] Without attending elections, you have ministers in almost all governments. I will only refer to those from the period of Borisov "Simeon Djankov," Traycho Traykov, Nona Karadzhova, Rosen Plevneliev, or in the words of Mr. Borisov "five-six ministers brought in by Ivo Prokopiev and the circle "Capital." The list goes on, naturally: Hristo Ivanov, Rumyana Bachvarova, Tomislav Donchev, Petar Moskov, Ekaterina Zaharieva. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Add to this almost all ministers from the two offices of Rosen Plevneliev. You claim that we share common liberal values. No! We don't even share anything in a book with you. There's a moral gap between us and you. [[(Loud noise. (Applause from DB.)]] We of the DPS are descendants and continuors of true fighters against totalitarian communist power. [[Lowered noise and lines from DB.]] Some have paid the price of democracy with their lives, others with their health, others with their freedom. Yes, and the investigators and prosecutors of that time we see them in your ranks. [[Applause from DPS.]] You are descendants of the communist nomenclature, riding Bulgarian democracy and serving foreign interests. Your mentor says black doesn't turn white even if we say it a thousand times. Yeah, you're right. You have told the white black a lot more than a thousand times in recent decades, but it is white, and you know that very well both you and the numerous members and sympathizers of the DPS, as well as our partners in Europe. [[Applause from DPS.]] Because of the lack of ideas, goals and priorities you are trying to build your political image through opposition, division and anti-DPS hatred. We DPS have a solid value base. Let me just give you some of the directions. Our valuable base is the basis of the unification of the nation and the unity since the very creation of the DPS to this day. We always have priorities that become national. Examples: NATO and the European Union Our Honorary President in 1991 pointed out these priorities that subsequently became national, and to our great joy and pride when we took part in the executive power 2004, we became NATO members, our Honorary President received a gold medal from the US Congress for his contribution to Bulgaria's NATO membership and for the peaceful transition from communism to democracy. [[Applause from DPS.]] 2007 we became members of the European Union, then we were also part of the power. Since 2016, our priorities are the green economy, high technologies and the inclusion of free and active citizens in the political processes, which from 2020 are priorities of the European Union, and Bulgaria as a member of the European Union will follow them. [[Applause from DPS.]] From history we know that divided society has no prosperity.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u15	Mr. Karadaye, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u16	We call through dialogue between the parliamentary groups to define national priorities, to restore statehood, normality in politics and democracy in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. For other statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In my experience, when the declarations from the parliamentary platform begin, the talks about establishing and supporting a government do not work. That is why I would like to state on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. We are coming! "That we are willing and willing to participate in the talks initiated by the "There is such a people" under the specific policies that will follow the future government. We are in good faith and active because we are aware that this is the will of Bulgarian citizens. People want stability, people want normality, people want security and expect to be created and supported government of change to take their side and deal with the most urgent problems of Bulgarian households. We have set our conditions and our priorities in the talks and their implementation in the next government's programme will also determine our support. First of all, we are talking about the judicial reform of a real, deep judicial reform, which should not be limited to a constitutional debate and changes in the Bulgarian Constitution, but also in a shorter period to start with specific legislative changes, which will allow for a change of the Supreme Judicial Council and a change of the Prosecutor General. That's our intention, that's what we promised our constituents. The revision that we associate with the efforts of both the institutions and this National Assembly is to work on the topic of anti-corruption. The people expect the truth about the waste of the cabinet to become available, to become public, all information about them to be clear and known to the Bulgarian people and then to be held responsible for not being interested, but specifically by all individuals who have participated in the waste of millions of levs, the billions of levs of the Bulgarian taxpayer, to bear their responsibility. We have also set our conditions, which are related to the concrete expectations of the Bulgarians for change in social policy, which means from 1 October recalculation of all pensions, there are opportunities for this in the budget of the state; support for families with children and support for people with disabilities for the most vulnerable groups. We will demand a real recalculation of pensions, which will seriously support the elderly, with the minimum pension becoming BGN 369. and in the event that the approach proposed by the caretaker government for inclusion and promotion through the insurance service is adopted, this should be considered only as a first step in updating and updating, recalculating pensions and, as of 1 January, the second real step in recalculating based on social security income in 2019. For families with children 60 million. lv. It will cost BGN 2000, 3000 and 4000 per month. support for first, second and third children, and 10,000. lv. for the second and third children of families in which at least one parent has been provided in the past two years, as well as a serious increase in maternity money. People with disabilities are waiting for the Personal Aid Act, we brought it in. Its acceptance and inclusion in action from 1 October is also fully within the capabilities of the state treasury. People want a government and expect a government, but a government of change, a government that meets their expectations of integrity, reformation and responsibility to Bulgarian citizens. People imagine and expect this government to be broadcast by the largest parliamentary group, to be supported by the formations of the protest and to have a clear distinction from previous practices and from the corrupt model that has been imposed in recent years. Or in other words, people expect a government in which GERB and DPS have no influence. On that point, we from Stand up BG! We are coming!... we are absolutely clear.. we will not support a cabinet in which we see the long hand of GERB or of DPS. This will also be seen clearly when offering personnel. In the slightest doubt that this National Assembly is preparing a replacement of the expectations of the Bulgarian citizens, of the commitments to them, we will not participate. We will not participate and will expose every attempt to deceive the Bulgarian voters. We're not backing down from this. Today, at 11.30 we have invited... and I reaffirm our invitation to a meeting, the parliamentary group of.. Democratic Bulgaria.......... for the approximation of positions and for the placing of medals that will not allow the replacement of the vote of the Bulgarian electoral. We from Stand up BG! We're coming! We won't allow it! [[(Applause from.. Stand up BG! We're coming!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other statements? I can't see. Moving on to: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS FIGHT-ROCK, ON THE BASIC THING. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON EMPLOYMENT BY THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS OF BUSCO-RASHKOV TROUBLE FOR INDEPENDENT RECOGNITION OF POLICE AND CIVILITY. I give the speaker the floor for a brief statement of the questions. Please invite the Minister. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Rashkov! For more than two months, the topic of listening to political leaders, activists and public figures circulates in the public domain. This topic began conspiracyly with a media bomb by a man, you have served before with this topic of election use to eavesdrop on 32 politicians. Continued with revelations of much more than 75 or 85, even Nastimir, went through cop theories about destroyed SRS at night at DANS and by flooding a storage facility for their storage. The Bureau of Special Intelligence has come up with a background check that didn't establish anything like that. The prosecution shall also refer itself to the prosecution after media publications and shall accordingly suspend proceedings for lack of evidence. During this time it was the election campaign and there were parties and their members who constructed their entire election campaign on your unproven claims for one purpose: suggestion against the political opponent. It came to a precedent that the office prime minister would fall into the vortex of the gate beetle you created for official-militic use and find out from the TV that he was being tapped, although there was a feeling that he had recently been tapped. This is a quote from the Prime Minister of State Stefan Yanev. All services committed to such unproven allegations, even the majority set up a committee of inquiry a few days ago, despite checks at the DATO, the DANS, the Ministry of Interior, the Specialized Court and the District Courts, which did not identify any candidates for MPs in the 45th National Assembly, the President, the Vice President, the Deputy Prime Minister and the parties' leaders being tapped. At least this is the official opinion on the website of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Despite all this, you still believe that the topic of pre-election smoke is important for the public and you use it daily in cases where it is very necessary not to answer the important questions that you are asked in your capacity as Minister of the Interior, albeit for service. And these questions are about migrant pressure, about domestic crime, about the growing number of people killed in traffic accidents, about your personnel assignments, for example, and so on and so forth. In May, when your bombing revelations began, you said that in a newly formed parliament you would speak on the subject, although under the Special Intelligence Act you should not have such information. I hope you know the Special Intelligence Act pretty well, because you've been president of the Bureau for a long time. That is precisely why, because of your request that you will clarify all the data, facts and circumstances before the newly formed Parliament, today by our parliamentary group, we are giving you the opportunity to present and share information concerning those affected not only politically but also the civil rights of the participants in political and social life. However, this information also concerns the trust of citizens in the institution. The opinion and attitude that will form the parliamentary group of the GERB-SDZ coalition, we hope will be due to facts based on evidence that you will present to the plenary and not another ridiculous scenario for professional use. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Minister Rashkov, for an exhibition on matters within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Vice-Presidents of Parliament, honourable Members! Quite critical, and I would say that this statement on content and content was unfounded. Yeah, I know this stuff, I've been doing it for a long time, theoretically, and in practice. I can and will give you, of course, today and not only, but in the coming weeks enough information to support the reverse thesis. I remember very well the criticisms that began with the formation of the Office, I heard them and watched them on TV, there was Ekaterina Zaharieva, former Minister of Foreign Affairs. Even at the beginning of the cabinet's work was said: "Give them, you don't have, give them the evidence that special intelligence funds have been used improperly! " - Well, you will get this evidence. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You'll get one part today. If you call a smoker the illegal limitation of the fundamental constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens for whom data are exported...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u23	Data, data!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u24	...I don't know how society will appreciate this! It does not matter that someone illegally restricted the rights of Bulgarian citizens, it was smoke, let us not pay any attention to them. Is that your political position?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u25	No, we want facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u26	Here, you'll hear. Be patient.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u27	Please do not engage in dialogue with the MPs and the MPs with the Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u28	I listened to you very carefully from where I was and do not interrupt me. So, coworker, if you would please be a little more careful and respectful! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS. Replices from IBGNI.]] It is true that some time ago the prosecution began to check itself. This was addressed by many, and quite expected it came up with a decision that there were no violations of procedures with special intelligence funds in last year's period. Just two days ago, although the National Bureau of Control also said that it had carried out a check and there were no violations, data came out that there were illegally bugged Bulgarian citizens, one part of whom are engaged in politics. As the procedure requires and has been followed so far, the National Bureau has addressed the prosecution with a question: may we, once we have established an unlawful application of special intelligence means, notify the affected citizens? And now I ask you, and you will answer for sure from the first time what is the answer of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office to this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u29	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u30	The Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office has said: "No, do not inform them now. " - Why not inform them now? In order to be unable to exercise their rights and to file claims under the State's liability law for damages caused to them by the unlawfully applied special intelligence means. You probably keep that up after you say there's no violation! It hasn't proven anything. Yes, in such countering the prosecution, on the basis of the requests on which permissions have been obtained and the rights of citizens have been unlawfully restricted, yes, this is nothing to you and has proven nothing. In the same way, the President of the Specialized Criminal Court made a statement in the same sense, and she stated that there was no infringement. And who authorized the use of special intelligence in these cases? Not you, not me. And this court! I haven't answered any actual questions. It just fills parliamentary time with talking here about the migratory pressure, about the transport crime, about the personnel appointments. Well, I have questions about these issues, one part of which I have answered in writing, and another part I will answer on Friday, according to your work plan. Today I will not answer these questions, as the subject is different. I didn't have any special intelligence data as a minister. I don't know who's fooling you, colleague Atanasova, about this? You are also a graduate of Law, as I recall, a student of ours from the UNWE, we know you. So now I'm going to say some things as an answer a little more specifically how I don't have data on special intelligence resources. Well, now we're gonna figure it out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u31	Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u32	I wonder why only GERB MPs do not know about these special intelligence funds, but those standing next to them brought a very solid group of famous politicians prepared materials in this direction to the Ministry of Interior? Ready materials have brought in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u33	What kind of materials?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u34	What kind of materials? I'll tell you! Madam President, they want to talk like they're on the street, maybe! The materials relate to requests drawn up by the Special Prosecutor's Office to the Special Court, to permissions of the Special Court, allowing for restrictions on constitutional rights of protesters Bulgarian citizens last year. There is evidence that, with respect to some of these citizens, surveillance has lasted a very long time, creating doubts about the legality of the deadline. If we have to go back last year, since this period has already been more than a year, of course, of the use and application of special intelligence means, I repeat, mainly against protesters citizens, particularly intensively these secret means have been used since the invading of the prosecution into the presidential institution on 9 July 2020. The reasons with which the permissions are sought are: the persons aim to be undermined, weakened, demolished the power in the republic and carry out a coup attempt, for forceful capture of power in the centre and in the places and so on, which constitutes a crime against the republic under art. 95 of the penal code. I'll only open one clamp here. This legal qualification belongs to two prosecutors from the Specialized Prosecutor's Office: Borisova and Parvanov. In 1996, this parliament was also besieged by protesters. I'd like to remind you that at the time no prosecutor thought a crime was being committed under art. 95, that is, a crime against the republic, and such deeds were not formed. I repeat, although the parliamentary building has been besieged, there have remained MPs here and there have been many events for their safe removal from this building, in a sensitively enhanced political environment, confrontation and so on. I'll say again, the prosecution didn't initiate proceedings for a crime against the security of the republic, for its demolition and so on, for power. Now, however, the protests of the citizens in the center of Sofia are qualified just like this. That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u35	Is this official information, or is it just...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u36	Mr. Bikov, please don't yell. You will ask the Minister in the procedure. Mr. Minister, thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u38	We are moving on to questions from the parliamentary groups. Is there such a people? I won't. From GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Rashkov, you do not really understand today's hearing on what topic it is. If you read the question that we have asked you, the reason for today's gathering is to give us information very precisely, very clearly: who are the politicians who have been bugged illegally and who are the citizens who have been unlawfully bugged? In your exhibition in 10 minutes I understood absolutely nothing and nothing answered the question we are asking you. During the past few weeks there has been a great bad feeling in the Bulgarian society that people, politicians, protesters have been widely tapped. You have repeatedly said, including the first source, from where this theater actually started, from Mr. Atanasov, by passing through Maya Manolova, Babikan, to get to you, so the prime minister who had found out from the media that he had a feeling that he was being tapped. I ask you very specifically, I think that the public needs to know how many are these people we are talking about being tapped by politicians and protesting citizens and I want you to name them with their names to be correct in front of the Bulgarian society? Otherwise, the feeling remains in me, in our group, that this was only used for election purposes and all the excuses for seeing when Parliament came, you would bring out this information, were just a big fake. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u41	Madam President, honourable Members! Why don't you read the Special Intelligence Act? Please read this text. Before you raise such questions in plenary, read this law! There, this law says: The Bureau of Special Intelligence Control annually prepares a summary report to Parliament, which lists generalized data, and the Bureau, which by law can access all the details of the procedures by means of special intelligence means, is not obliged to give you a roll call account of who has been tapped and who has not been tapped. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] It doesn't have to be! I am carrying with me the Bureau's summary data, which has been submitted by the end of May this year, he is here in Parliament. Whoever is interested in this topic can safely read the data, and you want me as Minister of the Interior to list the names of the persons who are subject to special intelligence. Is that right? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] But you have the wrong name, dear Members of the House. My name is not Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Call your right hand of the hedgehog to come here and read the SRS all day long, and read these recordings to the doctors from the Gornooriahov hospital. [[Laughter and applause from IHN.]] [[Laughter and applause from IHN and IBGN]] My name is not Tsvetan Tsvetanov and such information the law does not allow me to give you. No matter how much you insist, that's not gonna happen! But I will tell you something else that we are currently talking about hundreds of Bulgarian citizens who are subject to a restriction on their fundamental rights... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u42	Mr. Manev, please! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u43	...by special means of intelligence, and that's a fact. It's a fact that I can prove very easily. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "Come on! "]] When a parliamentary committee is now being formed, whether it will be polled or not...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u44	It's formed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u45	If it's formed, I'll provide you all, including the classified materials... [[Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u46	...which I have, which will make the picture clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u47	Where did you get these?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u48	Well, where did I get them? I'll explain to my colleague Atanasova now because she doesn't understand anything. [[Laughter]] I have them, colleague Atanasova, from an inspection I appointed immediately after the cabinet was formed. There is one office in the Ministry of Interior "Inspectorat" is said to be entitled to carry out such checks, and this inspection is at its end. Unfortunately, here due to the disease of some of the examiners, we failed to cope within this period, but a large part of the facts have already been established and they are, in summary, I will say, as I do not have that much time, but in summary I will say the following. Hundreds of Bulgarian citizens were tapped at the request of the Special Prosecutor's Office and at the permission of the Specialized Court. Hundreds! The Ministry of Internal Affairs here you have one minister, even two of that time, who has been watching as the Ministry of Internal Affairs in these procedures, some of their services have been performing the functions of service personnel for the Special Prosecutor's Office. They have committed serious violations of the rules of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. The names of persons who have been subjected to special intelligence means have been distributed on sheets which have been subsequently destroyed. They've been destroyed! [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] No reference has been made in this regard. When these employees worked, they worked on exported monitoring points, the information was not described, obviously consciously, in secret notebooks or notebooks, as required by the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. In addition, all requests of prosecutors from the Special Prosecutor's Office have been drawn up in violation of the Special Intelligence Act by the operational workers themselves from these services. I say that this is a violation because the Special Intelligence Act, as well as the Code of Criminal Procedure, provides that the requests in criminal cases of the prosecution are the powers of the monitoring prosecutor and the employees are used, I repeat, as servants of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. If you like this, continue this practice. Next, there is only one reference in relation to a request for authorisation to the Special Court, in only one reference there are mentioned that 19 persons have been observed in order to convince the court that there is reason to grant permission. This is according to the decree written by prosecutor Parvanov, where, as I have already highlighted many times, the legal qualification of the act is a crime against the Republic. Only on the basis of the assessment, on the legal basis of the use of special intelligence means, this crime under art. 95, which is a dead text in theory in our country, only on this basis, if you look objectively at this issue, you will decide for yourself that we are facing a breach of the procedures of the Law on the Use and Implementation of Special Intelligence Means, as the basis is invalid. Such a crime has not been committed, but this plea has been used. Then we can, if we are really responsible, conclude that the unfortunate legal basis for using and implementing special intelligence means makes the procedures unfit. Ergo, this was an illegal activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u49	Could there be a regulation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u50	Mr. Nenkov, there is no limit to the rules. At the moment, in the Draft New Rules, we have set a limit of 10 minutes, but at the moment the Rules allow the hearing person to respond without limitation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u51	There's no answer!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u52	You ask a question and the Minister tries to answer you thoroughly. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u53	They scream, what do I do?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u54	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u55	If you have anything more to say to them, go ahead. If not, we'll move on to the next questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u56	The Department of Home Affairs of the Ministry of Interior was involved in these procedures, although there were no employees of the Ministry of Interior who were the reason for using this office, there was no such legal basis, but since the volume of the secret activity was enormous, they were also included. So many events have been held that these officers at the Ministry of Interior have worked long after their working hours have expired. This subsequently led to the payment of a rather solid budget for this overtime. By the way, I also took the liberty of talking to staff from the State Agency for Industrial Operations. It was exactly the same there. Such a miracle these people have never seen, such tension. This is also a violation of the procedure, as there are persons involved who cannot and are not authorised by the law to take such a part. This is a breach of procedure. The Ministry of Interior has examined all the documents it could see and passed through the office. Of course, a large part of them were destroyed during the period after the inauguration of the office and this was proven in a firm way, including not only from the cameras that were traced, but also from information obtained from the ministry's employees themselves, what they were doing. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u57	Mr. Bikov, no ideas at all. Please! [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Mr. Minister, to the specific question! [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u58	I have repeatedly pointed out that all these materials that have been collected by the Ministry of Interior in relation to these procedures will be provided to a relevant parliamentary committee that will have access to the other institutions that have been involved in these procedures. These are the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, which has a register of requests, respectively, and the permissions, this is the Specialized Criminal Court, which is also with a registry of classified information, and this is the State Agency...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Only with your intervention, as you, in forming such a commission, will perform the role of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence, which this Bureau has failed to perform. This is the only way to get to the end of the investigation of these procedures that have been bugged, monitored, monitored individuals who have not been and for them there is no evidence that they have committed any crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u59	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u60	It's the way it's supposed to be. Okay, procedure is more like it's not the way it's supposed to be. I have a specific proposal. If the House thinks it can accept it and accept my proposal. Mr. Rashkov, I knew what you would answer this question and in this regard I propose on the grounds of art. 50, para. 2 to turn off the microphones and televisions and move on to a closed session. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because you've been very pleased to get away with two things in the last few weeks. First, that you can't and wait for some hypothetical committee to provide an answer to my very simple question, which you didn't need to explain 12 minutes to, and tell me there are 32 people. If you can't say it in front of the cameras, as this is your basis for one, then please, Madam President, allow the vote under art. 50, para. 2 to proceed to a closed session. I think every single MP, and the public needs to hear the answer to my exact and specific question. And don't get away with seeing that in this committee you will provide this information. Well, you may not be a minister tomorrow, and that just stays in history somehow back in time, and it directly affected the last parliamentary elections. That's the problem. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Nenkov, according to the Rules of Procedure, art. 50, para. 2, which you quoted, there the requirement is 1/10 of the MPs. No such proposal has been submitted. A-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. 2 when documents classified under the Classified Information Protection Act are discussed, it is required there to be a clear griff in order to know how to record the meeting. We don't have any documents like that on file right now. For a reverse procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u62	Thank you, Madam President. By chance, if it has not become clear to anyone that GERB are a writer of laws, not a reader, I think it is now clear. [[GERB-SDS.]] It is not possible to export classified information from the stands of the National Assembly. Even Tsvetan Tsvetanov understood it the hard way. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, he'll figure it out. Obviously GERB did not understand, although three of their members yesterday were an audience in the Commission. Such a commission yesterday held its first meeting precisely on illegal wiretaps and police violence from the protests.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u63	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u64	The procedure is that we are making a reverse proposal not to vote on this, although it makes absolutely no sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u65	This shows that everyone makes their own proposals and procedures, which they want, hiding behind the way they behave, that's it. This is proof that day. Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. I will not allow Mr. Nenkov's proposal on the grounds that I myself have stated, quoting the Rules. We continue with a further question from the BSP for Bulgaria. Do you have a question for Minister Rashkov? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, it is not surprising today that GERB asked the topic of the day with your hearing on issues which it is obvious that the answer today cannot be received for objective reasons because the Law, you are right, is so written. The truth is that in the last 12 years the laws have been so written that they are in favor of a ruling majority. In a legal way, it turned out that a number of Bulgarian citizens became criminals without being criminals. I am amazed by the data you have presented that hundreds of Bulgarian citizens are being prosecuted under art. 95 of the Penal Code, which really is a dead text. Whoever's been in law school has been studying it since freshman year. In this regard, since such information cannot be exported here from this tribune, I would ask you to answer me this. I believe you have this reference, precise and specific, at least you can get us out. How many criminal proceedings were brought under this article at the time when the SRS was applied and the exact number of citizens and politicians, I suppose you know, to which the SRS was applied in all kinds? The Special Intelligence Act lists many species not to list them here. The least we can do is find out. I would also like to ask you, as a large part, not to say all of them, are most likely implemented by DATO: will a check be carried out in this state agency and will the appropriate administrative criminal measures be taken if there have been violations in the implementation of the SRS? Will the Director of the DATO be held accountable? That's my request. And for colleagues to know: the Commission will be asked to be brought to the Secret Office by name to teach them who they are. Otherwise, I'm dying to hear it here from the stands, but the fact is, that can't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u68	Madam President! Dear Mr. Ivanov, from the documents we have at the Ministry of Interior and, more precisely, the decrees that have been drawn up by the relevant prosecutors, which I named by name here for a reason, it follows that there are two such prosecutorial acts. However, it is not clear from them how much pre-trial proceedings are. In both acts issued by different prosecutors, the file is under No 1425 of 2020. On one of these decrees and as a result of the checks that we have carried out there, the number of pre-trial proceedings 115 of 2020 is written. We cannot understand more because we have only these two prosecutors' acts. I carry them here. I will present them to the Commission which you have formed so that these documents can be easily checked further. I'll say again, we can't find out because we don't have those documents, they're in the D.A.'s office. But these documents were initially provided to the Ministry of Interior and now, notice, they were given to the former Secretary General of the Ministry and were subsequently taken to the General Directorate of Organized Crime. There, however, in this office, this prosecutorial act has not been brought in. That is to say, the employees of this directorate in practice carried out orders of their superiors without knowing the content of this prosecutor's act. They've been doing what they're told every single day verbally, and I keep repeating, carrying around a list of people's names. It's possible, only so I can say, that there are other numbers of pre-trial proceedings registered at the Special Prosecutor's Office, because I'll tell you what I think. It is a very long period in which protesting citizens are observed here on Sofia. It's a long time! Employees claim no less than 8 months of observation. Secondly, we have encountered the requested extension of the deadlines, especially with regard to a politically active person, who my sequels suggest that either they have exceeded the legal deadline or requests for extension have been taken in various pre-trial proceedings. Here, these are the problems that we cannot clarify, as these documents, this information, we do not have access to it. It can only be accessed by the parliamentary committee. This could also have been established by the Bureau of Special Intelligence Control, but remember, only a month and a half ago they were ordered by the prosecution to begin an inspection. Otherwise they did not self-sit on this line and quickly said that there were no violations. Then they said, here is one of the members a few days ago made a TV statement that there are such cases and that the checks on your applications have not been completed yet. Many of you have sent such requests to check that they were not controlled by the SRS last year, including in the election period. I have doubt even that some who have been on the lists in the election period, despite this immunity that arises, have been controlled by special intelligence means. I have such doubts. As far as the number of citizens is concerned, because I see a great deal of interest in this particular matter, although I am looking at the issue a little more generally and generally, we have data of no less than 100 people. Not less than 100 people! Otherwise, I don't see any reason why these people's names should be in the files we're monitoring and checking. As far as the State Agency is concerned, I have tried to say something, but somehow there is no interest in this issue. It is also very important to know what they have done in order to assess the issue properly with the management of this agency. There the pressure was enormous, of course, as well as in the Ministry of Interior, and they also worked, not to say 24/7, but about exactly like that. And for the first time in years, the management of this agency has been forced to pay overtime to these employees. So in this state agency no one has carried out a detailed, serious examination of the procedures and this can only be done by the parliamentary committee, because another body in our country does not wish to carry out such an inspection or does not want to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u69	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u70	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, the question I am going to ask you is related to the role of the Specialized Criminal Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. You have partially answered this question, but I ask you this in the context of the fact that in the Parliament, a bill amending the Law on the Judiciary was introduced for the closure of the Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office with very clear motives. As is known from the official statistics of the Specialized Criminal Court, half of all cases of the Court are actually granting permissions for special intelligence means. About 3% are cases essentially in the Specialized Criminal Court. So my question is this: what part of all the permissions given to eavesdropping citizens and politicians are given by the Specialized Criminal Court at the request of the Special Prosecutor's Office? What is the approximate, if you cannot say the exact number, and how do you explain that the President of the Specialized Criminal Court denied this fact? And we take that as a fact because different institutions have confirmed that it was the Special Court that gave a large part of these permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I said just now that we can't have immediate data because we can't check the Special Court Register. But I'm using official material, just like I gave you a hint. This is the Annual Report of the Bureau of Special Intelligence Control, which is here in Parliament, of course, and in that part, which refers to the authorities under art. 15 of the Law on Special Intelligence, and in particular the Specialized Criminal Court, it becomes more than clear that this court last year has dealt with and granted permissions, note, for the use of special intelligence resources in 70% of cases across the country. 70% of the cases! And if 71.36% of all authorisations, I quote verbatim from the report, are given by the Specialized Criminal Court, in absolute numbers means 2798 pieces. In other words, what you already know about this court, as well as the Special Prosecutor's Office, should be very carefully examined and take a responsible decision on their existence as elements of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u73	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u74	Honourable Members, Madam President! As the issue is discussed here as to whether there have been requests from the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the respective permissions of the Specialized Criminal Court for the application of special intelligence funds to civil activists and participants in the protests, my response as Chairman of the Civil Platform. БГ! "There should be such requests that we had in which, within pre-trial proceedings under art. 95 of the Criminal Code for Insurrection, for a coup d'état, for a crime against the Republic are literally included the entire office of. All civil society activists. The great criminals in the face of a store manager, accountant, PR citizens who are not even politicians, just actively involved in the protests. Special intelligence means have been applied to them for months, and we have seen in the documents we have, our conversations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u75	Where are those documents?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u76	Would you like, Mr. Bikov, your conversations to be monitored, documented and read in the Offices as a civil activist? I cannot believe that GERB's parliamentary group is behind listening to citizens, politicians and journalists. I can't believe it!? In fact, the purpose of this debate should be that it no longer happens. Tomorrow, the services will not listen to you, and I will be the guarantor of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u77	Mrs. Manolova, I'd like to ask you a specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u78	My question to Minister Rashkov, as we gave in good faith the documents we had at our disposal, to him at the Ministry of Education...................the requests for the SRS, the permissions of the Special Prosecutor's Office. And I really don't understand why you're referring to statements by these authorities...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u79	Your time is up, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u80	...who openly deceive the Bulgarian society? We do, I'll show you the phone records. That's really low-life behavior, and this violation is a crime. And is a wiretap legal, where the request without any facts claims to be a coup d'état? Well, I can charge you with killing the Pope tomorrow...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u81	Mrs. Manolova, your question must be to the Minister and your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u82	...and be officially listened to.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u83	To tell. To bring in evidence. Why isn't he bringing in evidence?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u84	No, because you're asking who? Get the whole office up. I can give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u85	Tell him who they are.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u86	Mr. Bikov, please. Mrs. Manolova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u87	I'll tell you after that so I don't have to take responsibility from the parliamentary tribune, but this is the whole office, everyone... [[The President turns off microphones, the speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u88	What was the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u89	The question was: what did you do with the documents we handed you and did you carry out a check on them?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u90	Thank you. Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u91	And the test results, are there people being punished? Someone did this thing? Is there a punishment?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u92	Madam President! Mrs. Manolova, yes, all these materials that you have provided, which Mr. Babikan presented, Mr. Hadjigenov and one fighter all this is systematized, located with us and we will provide you with all this information. Not only the names of the people, not only of those you have provided us from your office, but also many other Bulgarian citizens for whom no one has officially come to provide us with data, names, addresses and the like, but we have them, yes and we will provide them to the parliamentary committee. It will have this legal opportunity not only to check, but also to inform them, to carry out an inspection as may the Bureau. And since the Bureau did not do it someone still has to take care of the rights of Bulgarian citizens, which were illegally restricted last year. And someone who allowed himself to put a sign of equality between a fair protest and treason as a crime against the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Moving on to the second round of questions. There is such a people? There aren't any. From GERB-SDS-S? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was very interested in listening to Mr. Rashkov's exhibition. As someone who is not familiar enough with parliamentary procedures so far, I couldn't understand the point of asking questions that we don't get answers to? All the other statements that we have read about in the media and learned from various television shows and which are spoken in Bulgarian pubs, restaurants and cafes have taught the Bulgarian people in the last 30 years not to use a straight phone, but simply to use apps because we are very afraid that someone is listening to us and must be very interested in what pantyhose you will wear in the morning or who you will go out to dinner with. To be honest, I'm glad Mr. Tsvetanov wasn't here to produce data, because the way he was doing it was ugly and maybe criminal, but if he was criminal, he should have been convicted for it, and I'm really counting on you to do this thing in the time you're about to rule. However, I hope to get a concrete answer to specific questions, because I, too, as a representative of civil society, have serious concerns about the rumours and allegations that Bulgarian citizens are being overheard. In this regard, Mr. Rashkov, to you is my question and it is this: where did you learn about the eavesdroppings of politicians and citizens during the protests? Specifically from where? I could ask Mrs. Manolova a question, but she's not the Home Secretary, where did she get the information about being listened to and that there were printouts...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u95	I told her.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u96	And where did you get the information...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u97	Please, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u98	I wouldn't want to enter into a dialogue with you. Thank you. I'm just gonna remind you of something that really impressed me. I have heard from this tribune 10 times the following statements, and they are very important.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u99	Your time is up, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u100	One second, I'm done. It has been repeated several times that there is no record of illegal wiretaps. It has been repeated several times that on the basis of the long period during which there was a request for such a wiretap allowed by a Bulgarian court, it is assumed that the number of persons is huge. However, I hope that on this platform we can get clear, accurate and concrete answers, without turning the National Assembly into a speech room and a re-story of everything that lies in the public space...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u102	...and in most cases it's false, and we quote it as data. Thank you. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u103	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u104	Will you give me a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u105	That's not a statement. That's a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u106	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u107	Please, Mrs. Manolova, not from the spot. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u108	Madam President, here I have a folder and in myself, if this committee is in operation at the moment, I will hand it over to you, I will pass it on to the parliamentary committee to start carrying out a detailed check at the Special Prosecutor's Office, in the Special Prosecutor's Office and in some other institutions, such as the State Agency for Industrial Operations and the Specialized Directorate for Operational and Technical Operations. Of course I won't break the law. The law does not allow me here, as some have done, to read names and to name names. No, I say this: here's this information, here's this folder. There are more than 123 people listed in it alone, for whom we have data that we have been subject to a restriction on purpose repeating this to the fundamental constitutional rights of protesters Bulgarian citizens. They're being used by special means of intelligence. Mr. Hadjigenov, if you are the chairman of this committee, I can hand you over against the inventory folder and ask you: start immediately and complete this check in this Chamber of Parliament, if you can. Therefore, maybe GERB will not be pleased, I would do so today, but do not ask me to break the law. Don't ask me to break the law the way some have broken it here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u109	Who's that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u110	You don't understand these things. [[Laughter and applause from ICN and GB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u111	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u112	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, you have presented frightening figures that show that the issue of illegal use of special intelligence means in relation to individuals uncomfortable with Boyko Borisov's sole regime is particularly relevant. Moreover, you have confirmed the thesis that is being done in society that some of Borisov's favourites and GERB's services have actively worked in violation of the law and following these dirty orders. Yeah, you've done a good job. You've done a good job, gentlemen, some as far as we can tell have received additional material resources... [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Please, Mr. Bikov! ...supplementary material resources for this purpose!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u113	Mr. Bikov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u114	Unfortunately, some of these things are also possible because of imperfect legislation, as you mentioned. That is why my question to you is: what legislative changes must be made to never repeat these shameful and shameful things again? And one more question, if I may: are there any politicians illegally bugged by the Bulgarian Socialist Party in this folder? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u115	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u116	As I neglected to say, the BSP was an active part of the protest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u117	Madam President! Thank you for that question. In practice, it is starting to have its major meaning from now on, because what we have done, what we have already found, may also have consequences in this regard, but what is important from now on, what conclusions will be made, what changes should be made. It is obvious that this legal basis, on the basis of which special intelligence means are used and applied in our country, is insufficient, since we are constantly confronted with perversions of the law, which unduly undermine the rights of citizens in favour of one or other interests. We've encountered these violations. I have worked purely professionally in this direction, you know that, and now I see that some of the structures of the judiciary continue in the same way, rather specifically the specialized prosecution and court. What changes could be made? First, it must be strengthened, in my deep conviction, the National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control, that it acquires real powers to control this activity without affecting who is the Attorney General. I would like to emphasise that, in my life as President of the Bureau, the Prosecutor General before Geshev was unhidden resistance in the attempts of the Bureau to carry out objective checks in relation to signals of violations in this delicate area. There were violations at the time by the Bureau, but, as you can see, there are none of the current staff, except those two, which one of the Bureau's members reported to the media. In what direction? Indeed, the Bureau shall have such powers to enable it to carry out the checks in depth and to inform not only the head of that institution in which the infringements are committed but also the relevant authority which appoints that supervisor. If, for example, the Prosecutor's Office is to be the Supreme Judicial Council, which by law should be obliged to take appropriate account of this Head. I have signaled dozens of times the former Prosecutor General Tsatsarov of violations of the prosecution, including not only the illegal use of special intelligence means, but the unlawful storage of results obtained through special intelligence means, which is an element of a single crime even of art. 284c of the Penal Code. No production was formed. In this regard, I believe that you, as lawmakers, can intervene and solve this problem. Secondly, to inform the Inspectorate, who must acquire new content in relation to staff and powers enabling it to intervene in a professional manner and, by external referral, of course, in such hypotheses and to seek responsibility from the heads at different levels in the judiciary. That is, the strengthening of control in this area is necessary objectively, otherwise we will meet somewhere during the year, two or three, and we will talk about the same violations that someone who has felt all-powerful, such as the untouched chief prosecutor in our country, to continue to perform outrage and to restrict the rights of citizens who are guaranteed by the Bulgarian Constitution. The sanctions to be provided are also necessary, because at the moment the Bureau is a body that recommends something to be done, and when no one is taking action in this direction, we can say: the effort has proved absolutely useless, in vain and so on. However, our country has created such regulatory bodies to which it must provide powers protecting the interests of the state and society, and not to protect the interests of leaders of the respective rank. Now I refrain in this hearing to comment at all on whether anyone from a particular party and so on and so forth. Please don't insist. I fell into such an awkward position two or three years ago when he also voted on whether to hold a closed session in plenary here or openly. It was decided to open the session, but it was also insisted that I say whether there was or not by a particular party. I was trying in a possible way to suggest some things that might have seemed to some parts of the plenary annoying, so I will abstain, for which I would like to be excused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u118	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I have a specific question for you, but before that I would like to say a few words. In accordance with art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers ensures the public order and security of the country. This is a division of authorities, and here we have to think about it, I have, of course, my personal opinion, which I have already shared with the prosecution, whether or not it should be an authority that can declare special intelligence resources. Because from what we've been hearing so far, it seems generally that the abuses are out there, and in the sense that the prosecution is making up some crimes, and that's on Chapter One. Imagine making a request for the Specialized Court to grant permissions, and by the time it's dry, it burns wet. But my question is in a different direction. Mr. Minister, you said so yourself at the beginning, mentioned the so-called export points. These are the popular inside of the services accounts. Under the Special Intelligence Means Act, the services, the bodies implementing the special intelligence means, are DATO and that specialized directorate above at the SANS, they apply. At the same time, however, it turns out that my question is in this regard that at the offices of some of the operational workers in the various departments, including the Ministry of Interior, in the Homeland Security, there are points drawn in the DGBOP, where the operational workers who do not apply the special intelligence means have headphones and listen. How is this activity regulated, and isn't that on the brink of law, not to say, outlawed? The data acquired from these operatives, where are they going? Because, in practice, there must be a parallel application of the DATO, which receive the request with the permission of the court, apply, and at the same time at the office of the operational worker at DGBOP someone is also listening. So please explain here what the difference is and what is the legal basis for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u120	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you are, Minister Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u121	Madam Chairman, Mr. Atanasov! These days or lately, the question of the prosecution's power to use and apply special intelligence means is increasingly raised. That's a serious question. That's a serious question. It is worth commenting on and making a final decision. If anyone wants my opinion, I agree that the prosecution should not have such power. It's a secret operation. The prosecution is a body that is involved, implemented, conducts clear actions in investigations which are in art. Paragraph 136. 1 of the PPC. Secrets, unspoken ways are privileged, if I may say so, to the services that, by definition, examine facts and circumstances of unspoken ways. Therefore, it seems to me that there is room for discussion, there is room for a solution in this direction and there is nothing wrong with testing if the prosecution is excluded from the authorities of art. 13 of the Law on Special Intelligence, respectively and from the relevant place in the PPC, will the cases of infringements that are being committed be reduced? Because an out-of-control institution, such as the prosecution in our country, is very easy to afford to break the law with these unspoken ways. We can talk for a long time, but let me stop here, because another non-substantial question has also been raised about the implementation of special intelligence resources. Look what's happening now. The prosecution in the specific cases we are talking about today, in connection with the protests last year, has not even prepared requests for special intelligence. The requests were used by operatives at the Ministry of Interior, written by them on flash drives and carried to the prosecutor's office, where the prosecutor majestically only made his signature so that he could go to the Specialized Criminal Court. In other words, this powerful office, which should concentrate on the detection of crime in the country, as Mr. Atanasov said, is the bearer of state power in countering crime and ensuring public order and security under art. 105 of the Constitution, we have turned, or rather not us, and the prosecution has turned this state body into serving staff of the Prosecutor's Office, that is, it has turned the operational workers from those services, which I have quoted....................................................................... This is the truth that we have established in our investigation. And now for the accounts. These are monitored points, which are said to be slightly more specific, which allow for an immediate hearing perception of the information that is intercepted by the technical service by the State Agency for Technical Operations. And what do you get in practice? It is obtained that it is not the applicant who requests the use of special reconnaissance means for proof in pre-trial proceedings, which it has formed, but another external authority which is not an enforcement authority, as is the State Agency for Technical Operations, to carry out this activity. He controls the conversations that are being held between the persons for whom permissions have been obtained for their, let's say, tracking, generally speaking. Then, notice what happens to the person who is at these points exported because they are not in the State Agency of Technical Operations, but are in premises that are, let's say, in the General Directorate of Organized Crime. This information, which is perceived auditorily, this employee, who is inside the room, he takes notes, then these notes bring to his supervisor and the chief, if he considers it important, brings to the prosecution, that is, some couriers, some typists. That's what the Ministry was turned into last year about these cases that I'm trying to explain. It is a very legitimate question: should officials of the Ministry of Interior who have enough operational and search work to do what the prosecution has to do? Whoever from the prosecution wants to use and implement special intelligence means should be so good as to order such out points in the prosecution and directly control the hearing conversations he needs for pre-trial proceedings and investigations. Finally, I am convinced that this is outlawed. I'll add one more thing. We've tracked down the regulations. There isn't one in the Ministry of Interior! And we, in our report, which I have repeated several times, are ready to pass on to this parliamentary committee, which we have reflected. And in conclusion, on the subject. Someone said, "When are you going to turn him in?" This report, honourable Members, is not my property. It was made at the Ministry of Interior after thorough, rather lengthy checks that are still ongoing. He will be available whether I am a minister or not. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ICN and IBGN]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u122	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No questions asked. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! My question to Minister Rashkov will be relatively brief. Mr. Rashkov, could you tell us, please, if any other means have been used within the meaning of the SRS Act outside the wiretap regarding specific persons related to the protests? The documents that we were pleased to present to you with Mr. Babikan the first date when special intelligence funds were requested was 17 July last year. Could you tell us, please, the starting date and end date of the data that you have, i.e. when the wiretaps and other methods, if any, and when have they been completed? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u124	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u125	Madam Chairman, Mr. Hadjigenov, honourable MPs! Yeah, the answer's very strong. In addition to eavesdropping, other methods have been used by the team, which is available in the Special Intelligence Means Act, in particular, and most often, except for the way under art. A wiretap has also been used to track and monitor. It's a legitimate question. They asked for permissions and received them unimpeded. The follow-up was carried out, of course, where the protesters were citizens. You know that some of these protesters citizens have been led to police stations for an easily explained reason so that they can take their identity, understand their phone numbers, and then it is clear what will be done with them. They needed the data. That's where pretty unpleasant events came from, you remember, in connection with which you wrote and the press for a long time. As far as deadlines are concerned. The deadlines are difficult to track the Ministry of Interior at this stage, because we need to know all the requests that have been made. You betrayed us, we have initial requests for extension. In total, it is apparent from the documentation presented that quite long periods have been used to control these people by special intelligence means, including those from the beginning of this year. You will have the opportunity to check all procedures and their legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to expressing a attitude towards the Minister's answers from "There is such a people." You have five minutes to express your attitude. There aren't any. From GERB-SDS? come in, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u127	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Minister of the Service, honourable Members! Mr. Rashkov, you've moved the air. That's what you've been doing for two or three months to move the air. We didn't hear anything specific. We didn't ask for this hearing to hear what you've been saying in some interviews for the last two or three months. We requested this hearing to hear concrete evidence of the allegations you made during the election campaign. Now it appears from your hearing that the allegations are public and there is no problem to be shared publicly, but the evidence is confidential?! I can't believe this is an honorable position. If you really are the brave person you are trying to say you are, and you are not some socialist militiaman, you should come out of this tribune and say with evidence everything you know, not hide now and mush behind the Law, given that two months you've been pretending to be a man! I'm sorry to talk like this, but this hearing loses an hour of 117,000. lv. of Bulgarian taxpayers. That's what it costs to listen to your interviews two months ago in Parliament! Second of all, I remember the way that wiretap saga started. The dear Mr. Atanasov came out, gave an interview and said that there were wiretapped 28 or 32 people. Then you came out and said, "It's true. There are some. " Now you're saying there are guilty people in the Ministry of Interior. If there are illegal wiretaps there, have any measures been taken? Do you have any punishments? Some people had been carrying paper and destroying it. Who are these people? Did you understand these two months, or were you just saying, "A woman said?" Twenty-five years old militiamen played all of Bulgaria before elections with wiretap scandals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u128	And new militiamen are doing it too!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u129	We are deeply motivated this thesis not to leave it. And we're not leaving her! That's why we asked for the hearing. We will also ask for other procedures in which we will eventually get acquainted with all the materials that you claim to have collected because we have not seen them. We have access as MPs to all of this. Not only Mr. Hadjigenov. You know what? It is true that you have gone to the closure of the campaign of "Rise up" and clearly showed from which political power you are, but that you are not the Minister of the Interior. You are one person who has made a political election campaign for the benefit of one political power and to the detriment of another political power. Our parliamentary group, Mr. Rashkov, has very serious doubts that you even know what you're doing and what you're saying. You don't behave institutionally, you don't act like an interior minister, you act like a person who organizes active events, and you act like analogs. Analog! I just heard you say they used to get people in the police station to take their phones. Mr. Rashkov, there are already mobile phones and cell phones. If the Home Office decides to take someone's phone, they can ask the mobile operator for it. We're not on analog phones anymore, I'm sorry. Something's wrong with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u130	If he knows their names.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u131	Right to you, if you want to give it to me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u132	You say they were listening to citizens and politicians. Okay, okay. However, let us not put citizens and protesters under one denominator. At the protests there were criminals and people who were directly from the criminal contingent. That's why we ask: who are these people who are being tapped? If Mr. Vassil Bozhkov and his organized criminal groups or members of football firms have been bugged, who have attacked the National Assembly with incendiary means and with all kinds of other attributes, it is normal for these people to be investigated in some way and to be at the attention of the Ministry of Interior. Not all protesters were sympathetic and intelligent people who went there with pure feelings. There were, and they were the majority of the protest, but there are criminals there. And it's perfectly normal, and it's the Ministry of Interior's job to investigate these people. If you are against this, if you are against Mr. Vasil Bozhkov being on the attention of the Bulgarian law enforcement authorities, this means that you do not work for the public and for the state. You don't work for society or the state! You're talking about how the D.A. got into the presidency... We're asking you about very different things!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u133	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u134	I don't know what you're always getting into about the president.! Okay, you started working as a PR, not as an Home Secretary. [[Noise and lines: ♪ The Time! ♪]] No, the weather's fine.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u135	Mr. Bikov, you're on the verge of being kicked out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u136	No, don't chase me, Mrs. Miteva. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u137	You can't...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u138	I am the father of your parliamentary group. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u139	Unfortunately, the Rules allow me to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u140	Okay. One sentence. We're not happy with what we heard. We will continue with our initiatives on this subject and will not leave it. It's not only Mr. Hadjigenov who's involved. We will also do what we need to do, and we will do whatever it takes for people to know that you lied for two months. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u141	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u142	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Today's hearing has once again proved that human rights violations are institutionalized in Bulgaria. He proved that for 12 years colleagues from the Political Party GERB and accompanied the only way to keep the power is to keep the Bulgarian citizens under control.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u143	What kind of suggestion is that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u144	Unfortunately, this hearing has shown that the violation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens has passed all limits lately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u145	It's a suggestion!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u146	Here we have heard about over 120 people who have been under surveillance, with the application of any other special intelligence means, eavesdropping, checking phones and anything else you can think of. That goes beyond common sense, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u147	That's a suggestion right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u148	Mr. Ivanov, just to let you know that you are responding. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u149	Regarding the hearing. [[Noise and lines.]] That's right. I have said what I have learned from these answers they ask the Minister. I learned that legislation must be taken very urgently to ensure from now on the rights of Bulgarian citizens, so that there can be no more such perversions with laws and with officials of the state, because they were also forced to do so. In order to leak this information, this means that there are also conscientious employees who have submitted this information about the actions carried out against other Bulgarian citizens - politicians, protesters and whatever they may be. This is not the first case in which a government of GERB, this sole regime, used the services to keep Bulgarian citizens subject. I also submitted when Mr. Rashkov was chairman of the Bureau for such actions. The point is, this is institutionalized. This is already being done legally. It's legal! You have found loopholes in the Law to do so, so that both prosecutors and judges will say: "It's all right! " - Yes, but it's not right. Bulgarian citizens are crushed. Colleagues, therefore, this Parliament in its work in the coming days must find a way out of this situation to stop this outrage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u150	Thank you. Mr. Atanasov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, this hearing today has raised a lot of questions that have been hanging around the public for a long time and waiting for legal regulation. Because it turns out that, in practice, as a result of certain legal gaps, there is an opportunity to abuse these funds. Otherwise, colleagues from GERB say they will be very active on the subject, but refused to participate in the parliamentary Commission, which was formed by parliament. [[Noise and lines.]] This is the toolbox, ladies and gentlemen. The institution should be respected and actively involved in its work, not to do a show here in plenary. With regard to legal gaps or more precisely the created legal possibilities for abuse. The last few years, on my watch, and not only what I've been reading, and what I've been seeing in the public domain, there's practically been a blurring of the line between the executive and some judicial authorities, like the prosecution. As has been seen here and heard from the Minister of Interior, practically an operational director of the Ministry of Interior services and at all the special services turned out to be prosecutors. And there's a separation of powers! This is unacceptable! In the end, because, as Minister Rashkov said, the Prosecutor's Office is a body of supervision for the legality of the activity of the executive and its actions must be public. There are two former interior ministers here, I do not know if they would admit how they worked with the prosecution and where the instructions for their activities came from. Finally, it is very important, on the basis of both this hearing and the Commission's work, to identify those necessary legislative amendments to close the doors for the misuse of special intelligence, because it has obviously been abused. Can in today's democratic Bulgaria a member of NATO and the European Union be formed cases for a coup d'état under art. 95 of the Special Section of the Penal Code? That's absolute anachronism! Another point is that we have been working under the 1968 Penal Code, as they say. This, however, is an absolute abuse. Find out! It is impossible for people who have gone public in the squares to express their attitude towards power to form a criminal case for a coup. Where are the indictments? Why didn't the prosecution take to file indictments to the court against the persons who were preparing a coup? Because all this was invented so that operational information could be collected for political purposes and abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u152	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? There aren't any. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Here you go, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u153	My fellow Members, I am not pleased with the Minister's answers, which could not be any other, however, since we have already created a Commission to investigate the use of special intelligence tools and the use of other tools of the Ministry of Interior. However, GERB asked for this hearing today. And I ask myself, when you are such great lovers of the use of parliamentary time for the most useful purposes, why, when we created all these committees the other day, are we yet to clarify what follows from their work? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] And after they were created using three or four hours of parliamentary time, you're going to this hearing today? For the older parliamentarians it is clear that this hearing is being made so that the parliamentary group of GERB can instill certain things that it wants to instill, and believes it will be in its favour. Okay, that's absolutely resonant. That's what everyone does, so do you. In connection with what you asked well, however, you have suggested that the Minister is not a brave man because he does not want to break the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u154	Saken!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u155	Okay, but the other day Rado Cholakov said: from now on we will be about the rule of law. And I asked you back then, since from now on it means you weren't about sovereignty. Okay, well, like the other day, you said you'd be from now on, so why did you decide not to be on Wednesday? If the law is a law, it is a law and it is passed to be respected. [[Applause from IBBNI.]] Yes, it is known that in Bulgaria the law is a door in the field and it is respected by the suckers, and it is our problem as MPs to break these attitudes in the nation, but in order to break them in the nation we must first break them in ourselves. What are the SRS used for, what are prosecutors used for, and what was all this tools used for last year? If you had any sense of self-preservation, the fact that all these events were used on text for a coup would first take your eyes out. By text of a coup, it is forbidden to use such events! And that means not only illegality, it means a way of thinking when there's a Satrap way of thinking, it's unchangeable, it's political mentality. And I believe that, if parliament has to back down, it has to back up this political mentality, any importer of it. And because now GERB will be in opposition the first thing that should come to mind is that you should be carriers of the breakup, not us others. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u156	Mrs. Doncheva, do not talk to the MPs of GERB, but talk to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u157	I'm talking about my attitude towards the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u158	Is this about the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u159	And, please, Mrs. Alexandrova, you've been taking high enough legal positions to scream like that. There's no need.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u160	Mrs. Alexandrova, don't shout out of the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u161	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u162	We're in touch. There is no change in the law of new, old or none that will do us any good if there is no good will to respect the law and a good attitude that society is not governed by satraps, we are not for here. I believe that our common will and our common desire should be to give another vision to Parliament, another vision to people who are concerned with law and rules. If we are going to be about the rule of law and rules, I ask that we be about the interpretation and the past being so. The Home Secretary told you that he will give you the materials in the committees as well. What you should want is the rule of law. [[National Representative Radomir Cholakov wants the floor from a place of personal explanation.]] Don't give personal explanations, Rado, you won't win anything, like you won't win anything from this debate, because before you want to prove it, does a minister lie...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u163	We don't have any information on that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u164	Mrs. Doncheva, your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u165	...you need to figure out what you want a hearing for? Thank you for your attention. I think I'm right on time. [[Applause from IBGNI and GB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u166	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted the first item on the agenda. Thank you, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u167	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u168	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u169	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I would, in part, agree with what Mrs. Doncheva said. Yes, we have the goodwill and the attitude that society should not be governed by satraps, and last week we saw those in plenary, and we are for the rule of law and justice. We therefore believe that this issue should be addressed precisely in the plenary of the National Assembly, not only by the interim committee. All of us as MPs have the right to hear what else Mr. Rashkov wants to share, so we propose that a hearing of the Minister of Interior be held again next week.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u170	Mrs. Atanasova, this is not the way to conduct it, it's a statement, as far as I can tell.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u171	Mrs. Miteva, I won't take more than 30 seconds. and on the grounds of art. 50 this hearing shall be held in a closed session, and a hearing shall be held by the Chair of the Bureau of Control of the SRS. We understand that the 2020 report has already been submitted to the Office. Ms. Miteva, I give you the necessary signatures that our parliamentary group has collected and this proposal has been submitted to the National Assembly. [[The National Representative Dessislava Atanasova gives the President the document with the necessary signatures.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Moving on to the next point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u173	Time out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u174	Are you suggesting a break on behalf of a group or not, or are you waiting for me to announce it? [[(Replys:]] There is no fixed legal basis in the Rules of Procedure as a recess or an interruption by the President at his initiative. Let's pass the two points with the suspension of authority, and I'll give it a rest. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE TERMINAL POWERS OF A MEMBER AND THE LOADER OF THE NATIONAL BOOK FOR CONTROL OF SPECIAL DISEASES. An application was received from Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov, Vice-President of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Funds on 23 July 2021. I'll read you the official draft decision: Project! DECISION terminating the powers of a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. 6, p. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED Ends the powers of Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov as a member and Vice-President of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence. Please, voting mode. They voted 170 MPs: for 170, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. With this and this point is exhausted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE TERMINATION OF A MEMBER OF THE COMMISSION FOR PUBLIC SUPERVISION OF THE REGISTERED AUDITORS. An application by Stefan Alexandrov Belchev was received from a member of the Commission for public oversight of the registered auditors on 26 July 2021. I'll read your work project: Project! DECISION terminating the powers of a Member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 74, para. 2, p. 1 of the Independent Financial Audit Act HAS DECIDED Ends the powers of Stefan Alexandrov Belchev as a member of the Public Supervision Commission of the registered auditors. Please, voting mode. They voted 173 MPs: for 173, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Once there is a desire to rest 30 minutes, break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u175	Colleagues, let's get back to work. I ask Mr. Mincho Hristov to be invited to the oath room. Mr. Hristov, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u176	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u177	We continue on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO REPEAT THE Summer VACATION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING FOR 2021 Importers.. Victoria Vassileva and a group of MPs. I'm asking one of the importers to submit the draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u178	We propose a draft solution repealing the summer vacation of the National Assembly for 2021 I assume you're aware of why this is necessary? We gathered less than a week ago, and it would be pretty ridiculous to go out on vacation after five days, given that there is no cabinet yet, it is not clear whether there will be a cabinet and there are also some laws that are extremely important, which should be moved, so we propose with this vacation that we do not pretend to be lazy and rob all the negativity of Bulgarian citizens, which will be absolutely fair, to take away this vacation at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u179	Please read the draft decision, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u180	Project! DECISION repealing the summer vacation of the National Assembly for 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 45, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Cancels the Summer Holiday of the National Assembly for 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u181	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Does anyone want the word? I can't see. I put to the vote the so-read draft decision. They voted 121 MPs: 119, none, abstention 2. The proposal is accepted, with this and this point is exhausted. We move on to the next item on the agenda, two hearings: HEARING OF A CAZAROV CASTLE, OFFICED MINISTER OF HEALTH OF A BENEFICIARY Art. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORKING OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING FOR THE SUPPLEMENTARY, WHICH GOES INTO THE HEALTH SYSTEM, FOR THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE ENTITY IN THE AGENCY OF THE AGENCY AND WHAT MEASURES FOR THE SUPERVISION OF THE HEALTH SYSTEM, FOR THE RESPONSIBILATION OF THE PROBLEMS IN THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE ARRANGEMENTS, THE DISCUTATED SHIROCTION OF COVID-19 AND THE GUARDS OF THE HEALTHS FOR THE RESPONSIBILATION OF MECHAYLOV AND THE PEOPLE'S PRESENTSENTS; AND ON THE VAXINATIONAL KAMPIA AGAINST COVID-19 AND THE REP Let's start with the procedure. I give you the floor to make a statement on the issues of the first hearing. Here you go. Let me just say that according to the decision of the morning the cameras of BNT and BNR continue to be switched on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I usually speak my speeches, but since the problem is very serious, there are many points that need to be affected, I will allow myself to read the opinion of our parliamentary group verbatim. At the beginning of 2020, the world was hit by an unprecedented one in recent decades on its scale of health problem. The significance of this phenomenon far outweighs its impact on the health system. It also has a huge impact on the economy, on education, the psychosocial climate throughout the world and in individual countries, the relations between them. In general, it has become an exceptional geopolitical factor. Before we raise the main two issues, we believe that it is necessary to outline the importance of this pandemic and its consequences for the Republic of Bulgaria in the last year and a half. According to data, as of 24 July 2021, the World Health Organisation over 194 million. people in the world have been registered with this infection, with the number of deaths diagnosed with a horse is over four million. According to your report presented in the National Operational Plan at the National Assembly on 27 June 2021, I am referring to the dates you referred to, the number of registered in the Republic of Bulgaria is 421 515 and the number of deceased with diagnosis is 18 027. Given the rules of epidemiology and the course of the disease, it should be assumed that the number of infected people in the whole world, as well as those in Bulgaria, is much greater, which significantly alters the incidence of disease. Nevertheless, the problem was and remained very serious. In the 18-month history of this problem in Bulgaria, we have witnessed a whole series of most often controversial and sinful legislative anti-epidemic measures and changes in the health system, which led to a legal result - Bulgaria has proved to be at the forefront of mortality, both of common, and of Kovid, as well as by the most important indicator of early preventable mortality. I will not go into details, but it is necessary to mention how the legislative decisions of the Kovid infection were erected undeservedly on the pedestal of particularly dangerous infections, along with cholera and plague. However, the most serious deficiencies were admitted in the preparation of the health system for meeting this problem. It was admitted, consciously or not, centralizing the hospitalization of patients in strategic for Bulgaria hospitals, which were practically blocked. This stopped the diagnostic-therapeutic doctrine of control of socially significant diseases and led to devastating results in mortality. Errors were also made in the financing of the system, which also led to sad results, some of them were already exported in checks of the National Health Insurance Fund. Next, you should not miss and mention the deficiencies in the therapeutic strategy in relation to the specific infection The loss of pace at the end of last summer for the restructuring of the system in its practical unpreparedness, poor technology base and personnel deficit led to its severe overload in the autumn of 2020, and due to the personnel deficit, to the burning syndrome literally of all medical professionals in the health system. Their deprivations, Mr. Minister, and ruining them both and their families cannot be paid with 1000 leva. monthly. Serious problems were admitted to the National vaccination policy regarding COVID-19. The disturbance of the balance of the ordered vaccines, the errors in targeting the vaccination plan and the creation of the so-called green corridors, which practically excluded the elderly, could not stand for hours in front of hospitals under adverse weather conditions. All these facts led to the high mortality rates and a low number of vaccinated. There are also serious deficiencies in the explanatory strategy of the Ministry of Health, which should have been implemented in all national public media. And so far, there is uncertainty about the size and directions in which the funds separated from the state are spent to combat COVID-19. About two months ago, journalistic investigations emerged about these problems, which for some reason, however, quickly disappeared from the public's attention. All the time BSP's proposals were related to the strengthening and optimal effectiveness of the measures against the COVID-19 pandemic in Bulgaria. We have repeatedly tabled proposals here for the development of a national operational plan, for mass testing of the population, which has been a practice throughout the global world, for changes in vaccination policy, which were irresponsiblely rejected by the majority of the National Assembly, for a more powerful and clearer explanatory campaign, such as campaigns were conducted in most countries of the European Union. The results are in. In the health system, high mortality rates in all its profiles, brought to the brink of exhaustion medical specialists and also severe problems in the educational sphere, economic crisis, caused by the poor management of the crisis, severe psychosocial climate in the country, serious problems in all areas of public life, culture, sport and much more. We have carefully familiarized ourselves with the National Operational Plan drawn up by you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u183	Your time is up, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u184	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u185	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u186	Ten minutes is the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u187	You've got five minutes to show off.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u188	I'm sorry. I'll finish in a minute. Sorry. We believe that this is all I have to say, Madam President, that several main areas should be discussed: creating as deep as possible clarity of the epidemic picture in the country, a private study cannot fulfil this role; carefully balancing the participation of the various hospital institutions in its characteristics to deal with the pandemic; careful restructuring of the vaccination plan; placing serious emphasis on the outpatient treatment of the Kovid infection; precision of the therapeutic protocol; changes in legislation with a view to optimizing the solutions; optimizing the explanatory campaign and clearly defining the role of anti-epidemic measures in relation to the educational system for the prevention of paradoxical phenomena, open drinking facilities and gambling facilities and closed schools. I'll just finish with the second part of the questioning, since we still have two parts of the questioning. Back in the past, the National Assembly was discussed by all of us that through unspoken changes in legislation justified by our preparation for entry into the Eurozone, our health system was put to the test in one of its most responsible fragments, the structuring of the management units of hospitals. Attempts to amend this clumsy legislation have led to paradoxes in the management bodies of hospitals, which completely demotivate medical professionals, to enter personalities who have nothing to do with the characteristics and strategy of the individual hospital. It is high time to rethink the way to identify the heads of medical institutions, the structure of the management, the way they are exempt from the principle. This is an essential part of the cadre policy. The changes you have made in the management of some hospitals in the country have raised many painful questions...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u189	Mr. Mikhailov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u190	These questions await a legislative answer. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u191	Thank you. I now give the floor to one of the importers of the second question from the hearing. To make a statement on matters in your hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the question of the vaccination plan was asked because the issue is alarming, and the real lack of vaccination campaign can negatively affect the lives of all Bulgarian citizens, their health, of course. Unfortunately, we are currently on the threshold of a new wave of four, from SARS-CoV-2 and tolerating some negligence regarding vaccination is very disturbing for all of us. I will list you several facts, which I think are extremely important, and they are that the Bulgarian government has provided a complete set of all vaccine types for Bulgarian citizens. Precautions were provided, disinfectants were provided, protective clothing was provided, vaccination plan approved. Green corridors have been revealed for all those who wish to be vaccinated, regardless of whether they fall into the group to be vaccinated in the relevant plan, and an awareness campaign has been launched on the importance of why we should be vaccinated. And all this happened long before Europe introduced the relevant requirements for mandatory vaccination in certain groups and areas. The Bulgarian is very scared of the word "suppose" - perhaps because we are individualists, perhaps because we are accustomed to always doing the opposite of what the rules impose on us. But long before these requirements were introduced, the previous government began to explain how important it is that Bulgarian citizens are vaccinated to preserve their lives and that of their loved ones. In this regard, experts show today that new cases of disease are mostly among young people who have not been vaccinated, and this is the main trend in the Delta variant of the virus. I don't know if it was forward-looking what was started a long time ago, but I'm worried about the fact that it's not going on. The policy that has been imposed over the past few months has definitely not continued the explanatory campaign related to how positive it will affect both the health of citizens and the Bulgarian economy the vaccination process if it is carried out to the end. And the data shows the following: among the population over 60 years, for which you made vaccination priority and for which reason you changed the green corridors and for all the younger people who would like to be vaccinated at another time, not only Monday to Friday, but on Saturdays and Sundays, when you are active and working, it is normal to spend on this time during the weekend, led to the following data: 48% of the total number of doses are administered to people over 60 years of age. For comparison, to date, people over 60 years of age have 47.18% of all received at least one dose. As of 18 May, subjects over 60 years of age were 48,46% of all subjects who received at least one dose and this compared to 1.5% less than the previous management period. And that can't be worrying, it only affects the group over 60 years. Vaccines were provided, calmness from the withdrawal of the virus also had, capacity and desire to achieve real results, however, apparently missing. Despite media promises to the nation, the result achieved is a failure of the vaccination campaign. Impression makes in recent days the fierce criticism of the Ministry of Doctors that they have not been vaccinated, and in this regard I will also quote data, and these are the following: 62% of doctors in Bulgaria have been vaccinated, and these are 41 117 doses of the different types of vaccines against COVID-19, with a complete vaccination cycle being 20 453. This is an enviable percentage compared to the total percentage of Bulgarian citizens vaccinated and if doctors are a thorn in the eyes of the Health Ministry, what happens to other citizens who do not have a first dose? And so much for the vaccination plan. I just think there's one missing. I'll also express a personal opinion beyond the group's. I don't know how an antivaxer can convince the strength and meaning of vaccines?! [[Heckling]] I'm done. The readiness of the health system for dealing with a new wave should be described in the National Operational Plan for dealing with the pandemic, which is strikingly similar to the plan that Minister Kostadin Angelov presented to the previous National Assembly and the Bulgarian citizens on 30 July 2020. The update or upgrade of this plan, unfortunately, did not work. Today, we should simply make arrangements to change this because we are at the end of summer. Although August is coming, in September or October, if there is a new wave, it will be detrimental not only to the health of the Bulgarians, but also to the Bulgarian economy. And this is a major problem that we may not be seeing right now, but whose consequences we will all suffer. So with this question, we would like to encourage you to think about how we can speed up the vaccination plan and improve the plan to deal with the next wave, because it is coming whether we like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Mr. Minister, please inform the Members of the National Assembly of the issues at the hearing. You have 10 minutes of questions or a total of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's start with the vaccination plan. It was adopted at the end of last year and foresees four phases. Somewhere around mid-February, the implementation of the vaccination plan was completed without being implemented, any of the four phases. The first phase of the vaccination plan envisioned the vaccination of the medics - about 200 thousand in total. people employed in the field of health. About 50,000 of them were vaccinated. total of those who were subject to vaccination during the first phase. During the second phase of 113,000 to be vaccinated, thirty-several thousand people were vaccinated. On 8 February, the National vaccination headquarters then decided that the phases would no longer be followed, that opportunities should be opened for all other people to be vaccinated, and with the implementation of the vaccination plan December month was concluded somewhere in mid-February, from which time on. The first major mistake made with the vaccination plan is related to the negotiation of vaccines. Bulgaria has given priority to the negotiation of the vaccines of Astra Zeneka. At the expense of the other three vaccines, which have been subsequently approved. Therefore, at the beginning of January, due to the late registration of the vaccine of Astra Zeneca. Bulgaria remains with a very small amount of vaccines due to the reduced initial application for vaccines of Pfizer. For the whole month of January vaccinations were carried out at just over 30,000. Souls. A little over 30,000. doses of vaccines were given for the whole month of January. In February, vaccinations reached 172 thousand. So it's a total of about 200,000. people received one dose of vaccines by the end of February. This is the first major mistake related to the vaccination of the population, the small number of vaccines provided at a time when they were favorably placed before the next pandemic wave. The second big mistake is about the choice of priorities. Unlike almost all the countries in the world and all the countries in the European Union, Bulgaria does not give priority to the most vulnerable group of people over the age of 60 and people with severe chronic diseases. In the vaccination plan they are placed in phase four, after many other categories of employees, workers, social workers, employees on farms of minks and so on and so forth. This is a big mistake, because the mortality rate of the Kovid is more than 80% of those who died from the Kovid are people over 60 years of age. The average age of the deceased was between 70 and 72 years. That is why all countries, apart from Bulgaria, have given priority to the elderly, because when you vaccinate older people, you not only reduce the spread of the virus, but reduce mortality sharply. When you inoculate young people, you also reduce the spread of the virus, but do not affect the mortality process. This error, according to experts, cost about 10,000 deaths related to the next wave that passed March and April. If our country had given us priority to the elderly, perhaps some of these lives would have been saved if these people had been vaccinated. The next mistake that was made during vaccination at the beginning is poor logistics. It is always difficult at first to organise the delivery of vaccines, especially those who have a special temperature mode of operation, and that is understandable. Clearly, it can't happen with a magic wand. Clearly, there will be gaps and things that need to be corrected in time. However, they were not corrected in due course. It wasn't until May that we secured the delivery of vaccines to the private doctors. Before that, many of them had to travel hundreds of miles to get vaccines, come back and put them on people. It wasn't until May that we put as a priority to inoculate older people first, because of this, to save lives. It is not true that other people could not be vaccinated, and it is not true that green corridors have been closed. Nothing's closed! It was simply a priority for elderly people to be vaccinated from Monday to Thursday with the advantage of personal doctors because of the importance of this process in order to save their lives. What Bulgaria has done, unfortunately, is that it has sacrificed the elderly generation in our country. We immunized mostly young and active people for more than five months, immunized athletes and football teams, sent mobile teams to different companies, people who are active who want to travel, but the process was completely abandoned to protect the most vulnerable groups of elderly and old people, and people with severe chronic diseases. This has changed since the middle of May.. We gave the elderly priority. And I'll just give you an official reference relating to age vaccination. From the beginning of the vaccination process at the end of December to 10 May, the number of vaccinated people who received at least one dose of Bulgarian citizens over 60 years of age is 453 thousand. Souls. Since May 10, 490 thousand have been vaccinated. Souls. In fact, this is the only good news from the whole vaccination process to this point, that there has been an increase in vaccinated people in the last two months, an increase in vaccinated elderly people. This suggests that in the next epidemic wave, as we expect there to be, perhaps this is a reason to expect, however, less mortality, because a small proportion of these people have already received at least one vaccine. Otherwise, Professor Kozhuharova, my advisor in the Political Office, sent me yesterday a reference to a comparison of the rate of vaccinations, as I see that there is some speculation on the issue of how quickly they were vaccinated and how slowly they are vaccinated now. The fact is that there is a delay in the vaccination process in our country, it is also a fact that such a delay can be observed absolutely throughout Europe, including in America. It has to do with climate change, with the fact that it's summer season, with people's psychology changing, but regardless, see what the data shows. Professor Kozhuharova has consulted me on these 74 days after 10 May and 74 days before 10 May. So we're not going to compare the month of June to the month of January, because January there were no vaccines and the comparison is impossible, then 30,000 doses are placed in total for the whole month. We're comparing the last 74 days before May 10th and the 74 days after May 10th when it was the caretaker government. From 28 February to 25 May 794 thousand people received one dose of vaccine. From 13 May to 25 July, 966 thousand people were vaccinated more than 170 thousand people were vaccinated in those 74 days when the caretaker government dealt with this problem. With completed vaccinations are 300,000 in the previous period and 558 thousand in the current period. On average, 10,741 people were vaccinated a day earlier, then 13,065 people were vaccinated. Thus, the claim that things have been bad since May 10th simply does not answer the truth. The numbers indicate the exact opposite. I'm not saying this to pick a fight or to make any dividends. I don't need to make any dividends. I am as worried as you are that Bulgaria is the last in Europe in the number of vaccinations. She was the last one from the beginning, and she's the last one right now. There are no serious prospects for this to change despite the enormous efforts being made at the moment. One of the things that is very difficult to overcome and which I think should unite rather all the people who are responsible and look with concern for their country and for the people is that because of the lack of a good information campaign in the beginning, a gap has been created that allows negative attitudes towards vaccines to spread among the population. And such attitudes have already been created towards vaccines for a variety of reasons: some are among doctors, others are among religious communities, third among minority communities, their arguments are different, but once created these attitudes, it becomes very difficult to overcome at the moment. I have held meetings with the EU Health Commissioner, the Director of the World Health Organization and I have had a long conversation about Europe. The two institutions help us and provide us with the opportunity, knowledge and know-how of how to better organize these health information campaigns for the population, but the difficulty arises from the fact that they cannot be copied directly. The culture, mentality, the population of different countries is very different. The messages can't be copied and identical. The release of videos with calls for vaccination, the distribution of brochures, what is currently done in large quantities, continues to give no convincing results. The attitudes created are very difficult to overcome, and I very much hope that the new National Assembly and the new government that you choose here, to approach this issue positively, to engage fully with this issue, not to sit aside and look at the Minister of Health's shit, to cry out: "You now what are you doing? You haven't done anything, you haven't vaccinated people yet, and everyone standing behind it, everyone in common trying to solve this issue because it is a national issue. This is not a question of the Minister of Health or even the Ministry of Health. I say that this is not even a matter of government, and this is a question of all the people who are responsible for the care of the population. We tried to attract and set up a public council on vaccinations. We invited popular people, famous people in society from culture, from music, journalists, so that they with their voice could convince people to influence people to participate in the vaccination process, because the truth is this: if we want to prevent closing and blocking the country, the only effective option is vaccination of the population. All the other measures that we apply to how effective, another matter, in terms of distance and wearing masks, can only model the wave, but not prevent it or limit it, which is very good in the preceding waves. Stepping on the knowledge of what happened last year, of the analysis that we prepared for mortality, of the extremely high mortality that we suffered last year, we prepared such a National Plan for Countering a Next Pandemic Wave. Just two numbers to understand the horror of what is seen from the mortality analysis. Bulgaria in 2019 with 15.5 per 1,000 is first in the world according to the indicator total mortality. 2020 after the autumn wave of a horse we are already 17.8 per 1,000 total mortality. In the spring of this year, the overall mortality rate reached 23.4 per 1,000. For 2020, what may be the most impressive number, in the last 30 years the life expectancy in Bulgaria has increased by nearly five years due to better living conditions, better health and so on, humanity has developed and lived longer. For the last year "2020," life expectancy in Bulgaria has decreased by one and a half years. It's a catastrophic result. In just one year we have a year and a half shorter life expectancy. Twenty-six thousand people in six months from November 1st to the end of April, more have died compared to the same period in which they have died in the last five years. That's more than twice the number of people who died in World War II. These are things that we can prevent in the future if we have a clear plan. We have therefore drawn up such a clear plan, assessed the situation, assessed the risks, assessed the resources and developed a plan that is based on the assumptions how the situation in the country would develop. In four groups, we have divided the possible situations of the green zone as we are at the moment; an orange zone, if the number of cases of the sick and if the number of beds employed in hospitals is increased; a red zone at higher levels of sick and higher number of busy beds; a dark red zone, when the number of beds employed is already in the order of over 9000, as was the biggest crisis in April, and the two extremes are now the situation as it is at the moment, and in the dark red zone, when nothing will work except food establishments, pharmacies and some financial institutions, what was happening during the previous waves. In the two remaining parts, the Plan provides in detail which of the activities will be stopped when it comes to this wave. This allows for predictability, this allows for prognosis, any person can advance an account. This will put an end to the bad practices ad hock at night to announce that tomorrow is closing or tomorrow is opening, as well as to bad practices to open businesses in the midst of the wave or to close without any explanation. Based on this division of zones we have read the activity of the entire health system. The second thing that is particularly important in this case is the prior reading of beds in individual hospitals. One of the reasons that was stated in the analysis that it led to a large-scale spread of the virus is that patients were accommodated in all hospitals at the same time. This is rather contributing to the expansion of the infection, not to its limitation. Therefore, in this plan, which we have also offered to your attention, we have foreseen a phased take of the beds by districts. At the moment, this plan is being discussed in each area. The next hospital is being filled in by the districts in which the beds are being occupied, so that everyone in all hospitals can enter. Of course, in the final phase, patients will be in all hospitals, because that's how many hospital beds there are. Let's hope we don't get there. Based on the information collected, mostly by scientists from the world, not only on the expertise used in Bulgaria, we have developed a uniform protocol of behavior in the case of a species in the outpatient and hospital care. It is available on the website of the Ministry of Health, anyone can download it, anyone can use it. We've put in place a procedure, a public procurement order to provide additional amounts of drugs that were in deficit in previous waves. It's low molecular heparin and corticosteroids. A delivery line has been provided for the only officially authorised breed treatment service. A procedure has been launched that has been delayed, more unknown than I have, several times before I go to the Health Ministry, a procedure for financial support for the repair and equipment of the apartments throughout the country lv. will be paid to 128 hospital care facilities. Municipal and state hospitals throughout the country. The project proposals are currently being collected and funding will be launched so that a large part of this activity will be completed within August. This applies to the equipment of compartments, to install separate entrances, to buy equipment, to prepare clean rooms in hospitals Everyone can see the plan, I won't go into details anymore. It was adopted by a decision of the Council of Ministers, and the idea is that each of the ministers should add, based on this medical plan, which is estimated and financially, how much it would cost the state in full development of such an epidemic wave. The plan is for each minister to add what he believes in his field that should be done so that it is automatically activated when entering the next level. If we enter the orange zone and this provides for an example closure of the discotheques, this means that the Ministry of Economy, if there is a program to support this business, would be 60/40, 80/20 or otherwise, this program should be launched automatically, not to invent at the moment, not to look for someone to be given to, but to know in advance that this programme would affect 100 people, 1000 or 20 000 people would have to receive such an amount and would be affected in this way and this would be an automatic process. It's all written down, sent to the district headquarters. They're talking about it on the spot right now. It is open and can be supplemented and updated if there are such specifics in different locations. The last thing I want to say is about the next pandemic wave. I'm sorry, Professor Mihailov, that I don't have enough time to get to the hospital issue because it's no less important than what I'm talking about, but the last thing I want to say is because I see that time is up. The two main risks to the next pandemic wave, in terms of reducing the number of deaths, is to reduce the scale of damage in the economy and on people's health. The two main risks are associated with more, but one of the main risks is vaccination. The low vaccination process increases the risk of poor results in a subsequent pandemic wave. If this process is not accelerated at the moment, in this summer window we have, we will not have a good foundation when entering the next pandemic wave and the number of infected will not be small. That's 100% for sure. If the Kovid Plan that we have drawn up is strictly followed and implemented, it will probably eliminate the second major risk of mismanagement of the crisis, which was almost the entire past year, that spring of this one. The plan allows for good governance of the crisis. This is a plus that can be used to achieve better results. The third major risk facing the system and in the next pandemic wave is the extremely poor state of the health system. This risk, unfortunately, cannot be overcome within a month or two. Our health system is severely debalanced both in terms of individual specialties and in terms of the ratios between hospital, outpatient and emergency services........................................................................................... This has created lasting attitudes that are very difficult to overcome. The last thing I want to appeal to you in this exhibition is this. Many say: "Kovid there is, this is not a time for reforms!" "No, Kovid is a reason to hurry with reforms, because if the health system is in poor condition, and the best vaccination plan to have, the health system will not be able to react well and cope in the best way. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ICN, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u195	Thank you, Mr. Katsarov. We move on to the first round of questions in the part of the hearing on the issues submitted by Mr. Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs. There is such a people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u196	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, we know that in this House we have MPs with very broad expertise, specialists in many things. I, unlike them, am an expert on very few things, I understand very few things, so I will allow myself to ask questions and comments that mostly concern our voters, the people who have cast their votes for us. They flood us with questions concerning the very large extent and the presented Action Plan. My brief comment on the Plan is: no, it is not good! The plan does not meet the requirements of the population, but ultimately we care the most about how the people live, whether the people feel good, whether people will keep their jobs and whether they will be able to live in a normal way. I've heard in a lot of media that we have about 40 normal days left in which there won't be a very sharp leap of the pandemic, so we have to be careful how we behave these days so we don't escalate the disease. I'm gonna have to say that I prefer and I'm ready to replace these 40 normal days in a year's life in lockdown restrictions. So in this order of thought I will ask specific questions about the Plan and some of the parameters in it. Obviously, vaccines don't work the way we expected them to. Everyone wanted the vaccines to be very good and to protect us 100%. My first question is actually rhetorical: if vaccines worked so well, why disciplined nations like Britain and the Netherlands, who have an extremely high percentage of vaccinees, they are one of the world's leading leaders, why are they currently in the red zone and why do they have such high levels of infected? That's the first question. We, being the last in Europe, are in the green zone, as we all know...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u197	Mr. Chorbanov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u198	...the way we live. The question was just to say about vaccines: why would people entering the country be tested with PCR, I'm talking about vaccinated people? Does our country have a signed agreement with producer companies not to take responsibility for possible side effects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u199	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u200	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chorbanov, I will not argue with you in terms of immunology, I am a specialist in the organization of health, not immunology. Your assessment that the plan is not good because in Britain, people get sick, I don't accept it. It's a very good plan. The plan concerns what are the commitments of the public administration and its structures when such a wave occurs to help people. Don't expect this plan to make people's lives wonderful, it's not his goal. Its aim is to clearly write down the commitments of each part of the administration what it should do when reaching these, these and these levels. Absolutely speaking is the question you're asking. This is not only Britain, this applies to the Netherlands, this applies to Portugal, this applies to Cyprus. These are countries in the red zone where there are over 50% vaccinated populations. Probably one of the reasons is that the vaccine does not prevent 100% virus spread. Probably one of the reasons is that there is still 50% that have not been vaccinated and are a field for the spread of the virus. But what is certain of the data that we see, and I'm sure you'll confirm it, is that the mortality rate of current waves observed in the countries in question is much lower than it was. So you can probably make the conclusion that it is correct that if it does not protect 100% from infection, it, this vaccination, to a very large extent reduces mortality. Even if we assume that this conclusion is true, let scientists say whether it is true, I am not the one who will say it if we assume it is, even for this reason it is worth inoculating people, that is to say that there is no other effective mechanism that we do not have. You know it better than I do. As for the next question that you have raised regarding the agreement with the vaccine-producing companies. The agreement is signed by the European Commission for each of the vaccines. Bulgaria has participated in the negotiation of the terms of the Agreement. This happened in 2020. They are signed under the conditions that are currently. Yes, each Member State of the European Union shares responsibility for possible consequences for the administration of vaccines. The good news so far is that such consequences in our country have not been recorded, we have almost two million vaccinees placed in the country to date................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's the situation right now. Otherwise, as far as contracted vaccines are concerned, Bulgaria has participated in the European Union Agreement on the delivery of vaccines in 2022 and 2023. All European countries have been involved in this agreement for additional delivery of vaccines. If necessary, if there is a variation of the virus and the current vaccine does not work and this requires additional vaccination, Bulgaria also stated purchase of certain amounts of monotonal antibodies that will be necessary for people who cannot develop immunity. Bulgaria has made and is currently making huge efforts to donate some of the vaccines that cannot be used and their expiration date is over to third countries or sold to third countries. Given the way the Agreement was signed with the vaccine producers, this has proved to be an extremely complex procedure. For more than a month it has taken the team of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to negotiate the dispatch of such vaccines, in the case of Bhutan State, but the problem with the vaccines of It must be decided what will be done with these vaccines, provided that the entire population actually refuses to use these vaccines. There is only interest in the rest of the vaccines agreed so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u201	Thank you. From GERB-SDS question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Katsarov, in your proposed National Plan you are talking about the so-called good possibility of low morbidity in the country. In this regard, I would like to ask you how you took advantage of this good opportunity to increase the vaccination range? What are the specific measures that you have taken to catch up on vaccination, given the fact that you have shared that we are the last country in the European Union under vaccination scope? You've spent a lot of time talking about your predecessor, but let's talk about what you're going to leave to the one who comes to your place, about what specific plans you have for the months of August, September, October, November and December, especially that you recognize that such a wave is expected. Are there no doses of vaccines? How many are these deliveries, how many are there in the second half of June so far?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u203	How many questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u204	And do we receive regular vaccines from Pfizer, Modern and Astra Zenetka respectively?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u205	How many questions is he asking? One question! Madam President, they've asked for five!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u206	What is to be done with these vaccines to be destroyed or donated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u207	Thank you. Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. As regards vaccines, there is a risk of the destruction of 22 thousand vaccines by Astra Zenetca, whose expiry date expires at the end of July. There is no risk for other vaccines at the moment. The rest have a longer expiry date and they are not at risk, but some of them will probably have to be donated or sold to third parties. With regard to supplies that have not been received so far, Bulgaria has requested a delay in these deliveries, but the contract has been concluded and we are obliged to receive them. We've paid for it, and we need to get those vaccines. A pre-allocation procedure has been initiated, especially with regard to the vaccines of "Astra Zeneca" before they enter the country that is the easier procedure so that the next government does not face the risk and the need to destroy vaccines, because this may be the worst that can happen. In any case, it is better to be donated to other people to be vaccinated, because vaccination is not just a topic of our country and it is not just within our borders. Vaccines for people in other countries help indirectly people in our country because it reduces the prevalence of the virus in general. As for the efforts we have made to improve vaccination in the country, they relate to several things. The first thing we have provided for the delivery of vaccines to general practitioners to the places where they work so that they do not have to travel and that this is a reason to refuse to participate in the vaccination process. The second thing we did, we distributed pamphlets at the post offices, at the lotto checkpoints. The third thing we did, we translated videos with the cooperation of Bulgarian media. They are broadcast repeatedly in radios, televisions and so on. The next thing that has been done has been created this public council, which I hope you will continue with the next government, to attract more people in it, so that no impact can be obtained by the politicians. People are reserved for what politicians say and are rightly reserved. Again, this is a national task, and everyone should be involved in it. You shouldn't leave this job to politicians alone. We are currently in the process of negotiations with mobile operators, there is a SMS campaign to be held, which is related even to symbolic awards for some of the vaccinated, and such things will remain likely for the next government to continue. But regardless of everything, what I want to emphasize is a fat one, I remain a supporter of the fact that the vaccine is voluntary and that people must, with their own mind, decide for themselves what to do. Therefore, by questioning the issue of giving vouchers, going to the sea, the one who is vaccinated, I say: "My God, what greater reward can we offer to someone from the prize that saves his own life and the lives of his loved ones?! If he doesn't understand this thing, should we lie to him with vouchers or some other reward to do something to save his own life, his parents, his grandmother, his grandfather? Isn't it best to try to make this conversation reasonable, convince people to make this decision for themselves, to do it with the awareness that they help themselves and others? That's the kind of approach I think we should choose. Of course, the example of other countries can always be borrowed. You see what is happening in France, you see what is happening in Greece, and in other countries, obligations are introduced for vaccination of certain population groups. That's not entirely unfounded. It is associated with the risk of transmission of infection to other people. That's the logic, isn't it? You're not only responsible for yourself, you're responsible for those you care about. You, as the National Assembly, may subsequently consider such measures if you consider it necessary, but I continue to be a firm supporter of this: let the vaccination remain voluntary, let us be convinced, let us try to convince people to do so because they feel a need because they feel it is right. This will be a very great success if we manage to achieve such a change in our country's public attitudes, but this will not happen with the efforts of one or two people. This will happen with everyone's efforts if everyone sends messages in this direction. If we continue to send conflicting messages, I fear that there will be no good result, and here every person must assume his responsibility as a specialist, as a politician and as a person, because a word spoken wrong can have a bad effect on many processes and on many people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u210	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! For me as a specialist there are three main things that should be discussed not in the Chamber, because here the majority are not specialists, but should be carefully redacted in your presented plan for working with the pandemic COVID-19 in the Republic of Bulgaria. The first thing I shared with you in structuring the questioning, and it remained undiscuted by you when measures were taken, Dr. Katsarov, against an infection, the first thing the team that takes the measures is to have a clear picture of what happened in the country. You enthusiastically and I share your enthusiasm, you shared with us a private study of a laboratory, you remember that, right? Now, however, it is time for the state to make these efforts within this pace of August, which is zero pace. Here these heartbreaking tales I hear from the yellow sites, how we have the last days, the one who knows how many have been sick in Bulgaria and how many have been vaccinated, very well understands whether there will be last days, when a possible wave will come and whether it will come at all. That's what we'll talk about in the fall. But we must have, first, a clear picture. And this was BSP's proposal, which we have just shared with you here.. do such research, you have a huge number of laboratories... private and state. This will cost you a lot less money than if autumn actually blocks the system, and then it will cost us huge money. The second issue, which is extremely important, I share with you again as a specialist and as a participant in the treatment of patients with COVID-19 in the properly shared by you, but denied here by some colleagues with a swoop, severe in technological terms hospitals across the country. I witnessed whole families arriving and praying to be accepted. I even shared it with my colleague Angelov something, I shared it with the media. I asked you then and you have recorded something that is very important: to focus on the outpatient treatment of COVID-19. This should become the alpha and omega of the Ministry's policy, as I say this to everyone here in this room who are not specialists, this infection in 95% of cases can be treated outpatiently. If the Ministry of Health doesn't put the emphasis on this next month and a half, we still risk slipping through media speculation, creating...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u211	Mr. Mikhailov, I'm asking your specific question. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u212	Second specific question. The first one was...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u213	Only one question has the right to ask now, the second in a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u214	And Mrs. Sacheva asked five questions, if I may, to tell you the truth. Didn't she ask five questions in one? So let's not get into the details now, okay?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u215	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u216	And the last question, which is not the last question, but the last question, not to insult Mrs. Miteva, the last sub-question, is that you shared here, but it is very important to determine the balanced participation of all medical institutions in the system. Because when we open your plan, and when we see how many beds there are in the public and municipal hospitals, and when we see how many beds there are in the others, well, my God, the whole fist will again fall on the public hospitals and not to become the same again. What you didn't pay attention to, but it's the monstrous...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u217	Mr. Mihailov, you've already exceeded time by two minutes, more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u218	Okay, thank you. It's the question that matters. I apologize for breaking it. I'm just finishing up. Mortality, Dr. Katsarov, hasn't come up from COVID-19. There are 18,000 cases. Mortality monthly in Bulgaria is 8 000 people, you know it very well. Mortality is from socially significant diseases that have stopped their treatment this year and a half. That's where the Ministry's accent should be. Thank you, Madam President, for your comments.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u219	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mihailov, it was actually more conclusions and conclusions than questions. A lot of what you said, I share it. The fact is that extra-hospital assistance for one reason or another has remained a little far away from the fight to date. Things have changed with vaccination because data show that the largest number of vaccines to date have been placed by general practitioners. That is to say, from this point of view, there is an activation of their participation in the process of countering a horse. In any case, it is important to recommend that organizational and financial conditions be created for this outpatient assistance to be included more actively in countering the epidemic wave itself in the diagnosis and in the treatment, as you correctly share that 9 out of 10 cases are being treated outpatiently. The point is to do it precisely. A prerequisite for such participation is the established and adopted Single Protocol of Conduct, which concerns both hospital and outpatient assistance. As for the study you mentioned, yes, it is. We showed a laboratory study in May about the number of people who may have met, but it is not representative, as you rightly noted. It gives perhaps just the most general idea of how many people. This study of antibodies conducted across the country, I stress, is not representative and is no reason to draw general conclusions. His data was that about 40% of the population was found in any way with the virus, whether it had been infected, whether it had been vaccinated, but developed antibodies. We are currently conducting such data collection across the country for the entire period of the pandemic. From March 1st of last year to date, data are collected in several categories. All cases where a positive test has been recorded, either PCR, or antigen test, all cases where a diagnosis has been made, or in hospital conditions related to a species; all cases of vaccinated people and all cases of antibody tested over the entire period of time shall be collected. The software has been developed, the data is currently extracted from medical facilities across the country and I am doing my best by the end of the week to be able to collect them, processed, cleared of duplication. They will be available by age, by gender, by settlements, by districts and so on. These data will give us the picture of the smallest number of Bulgarian citizens who have met with a horse. I say the smallest, because the likely number of people who have met with a horse, to put it this way, in terms of a horse, is certainly greater because not a small number of our compatriots have become ill without being registered by the health system as people who have met with a horse. It was because these tests weren't free for a long time, and it kept people from doing PCR tests, or because people didn't want to go into quarantine, so they covered up that they had a disease, that they didn't back up or do their diagnostics to keep it from becoming known and not registering in the health care system. So what we will be able to identify as data and serve as a basis, Professor Mihailov, for better planning ahead, is the smallest number of people who have already met the virus. This will allow us to make some assessment, an analysis of how close we are to so desired by all collective immunity that would allow us to breathe more calmly and not be afraid of closing down the economy, closing down various activities and businesses. So in answer to your question, I hope that if everything goes as it should, and if I manage to fight the bureaucratic machine, we will have it at the end of this week and we will make it available, of course, to all and the immunologists, most of all, to their opinion, we will also rely on an assessment of these data.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u221	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u222	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u223	You can't hear anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u224	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I won't repeat the words of the traitors. We have heard many of the facts that are subsequently the government, which was GERB. What are the consequences? What happened, this mortality that we saw was a series of many mistakes that are irreversible mistakes. Administrations for the Plan that has been drawn up to deal with the impact of the crisis. I would say that with this plan you managed to bring order into the chaos that left GERB. Based on this plan, from now on we have how we can specifically act quickly, adequately and within a few days. Thank you for that. Yes, I have seen and read what the bed base is, how the drugs are going to be distributed, which are essential with low molecular heparins and with high molecular hemogens, these are things that are really good and predicted, but I want to ask you: because in many of the small settlements and in many of the district hospitals, huge is the problem with medical professionals. Would you please tell me if we have a plan for this and possibly how many medical professionals will be prepared to be directed precisely at the species wards that, at a certain stage, will need support from their colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Peneva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I mentioned the severe imbalances in which our health system is located. One of them is in the imbalances a large small town, remote settlements. This was one of the reasons why organized mobile teams were targeted at vaccination, the possibility of vaccination in such small remote settlements, where there are no general practitioners and access to primary outpatient care, let alone specialized or hospital care. We even held meetings with the mayors of the settlements, with the leadership of the National Association of Municipalities, asking them to benefit from these mobile teams, which is available to each regional health inspection, so that those people who are difficult to move, stationary or are too far away from being able to take advantage of the services of mobile teams and to be vaccinated. As for the treatment of patients with horse sickness, there are areas of the country where really the possibility of providing medical care is very limited, including hospital care. The purpose of the Plan is to read the number of the beds, and to make it clear in advance where the next sick are accommodated. There's no way to open new beds and new opportunities. They may be exposed to hell-hock, but this is also with limited possibilities. This is one of the reasons why, by the way, I appeal to you to proceed with changes in legislation so as to make it easier for medical institutions to restructure, to be able to restructure quickly and meet the changed needs of the population. One of the problems my predecessor Minister Angelov faced as Minister of Health is that, in fact, the law does not allow new structures to be revealed immediately. This is a procedure that takes several months and the Health Insurance Act does not allow a contract to be concluded with the Health Insurance Fund in the same year in which the new structure is revealed. In the event of such a type of pandemic wave, the health system cannot react because the law itself forbids it. This has been overcome by circumventing the ban thanks to the exceptional epidemic situation, issuing emergency orders and we continue to be in this emergency mode. The right approach is to change the law and allow medical institutions to be able to rapidly restructure. If they need to reveal more beds, because they are currently looking for more beds and the population needs such beds, they can do so quickly, within a few days or within a week, so that they can respond to these needs, respectively, if these needs are dropped out, they can quickly complete this activity and return to their normal activities. One of the things that I hope will not be allowed, which I report as a mistake during this entire pandemic period, is that in the epidemic period that was last year, for fear or for excessive caution, for a very long period of time, there has been a ban on carrying out planned medical activities. This, Professor Mihailov, helped what you say, that many people delayed their diagnostics, delayed their treatment, and that is certainly one of the factors he has contributed to increasing overall mortality. Only in a critical situation should this planning activity be stopped, which is the main part of the activities of hospital care facilities. My answer is therefore: yes, to whether hospitals can adapt to the needs of the population in these areas, but it is linked to an urgent amendment in legislation and enabling hospitals to quickly be able to be flexible, quickly be able to restructure and be able to discover as many sectors, activities and compartments as necessary, to engage people in order to serve the increased number of hospitals with a horse, if any. And this is something that refers not only to a horse, it's a plus for the health system. This opportunity to be flexible and quick to react will always serve her, not just in cases of a pandemic such as this is at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u227	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Our parliamentary group proposes extending the working hours until the end of the hearing of Minister Katsarov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u229	Until the point is complete?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u230	Yes, until the point is complete. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u231	Thank you. Here's your offer back, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u232	We are making a counter-proposal to extend the working time until the agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u233	That's not the other way around, that's another proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u234	It's another offer, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u235	I mean, you're offering including that. 6, as the remaining points are fixed for tomorrow. Okay. I shall put to the vote the far-reaching proposal to extend the working day until the end of this paragraph. 6 including, on the agenda. [[Heckling]] They voted 91 MPs. There is virtually no quorum. I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend plenary's work until the end of this paragraph. Five on the agenda. They voted 125 MPs: 106, against 5, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. We're working until this point is complete. Thank you. We have come to questions from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, you have already announced that over 500 to 600 million. lv. they will be required to receive from the health system of the next wave of the coronavirus in the most pessimistic scenario. According to the information that is public, and from the stands just now you said that from the Operational Program "Regions in Growth ". lv. will be provided for 132 medical facilities to improve the infrastructure and in general the equipment of these hospitals. You've already pointed them out, not to repeat them. That's good, because you're going to upgrade what was done in the country for needs that would arise. As another source of funds, you pointed to the state budget. You also indicated that several million will be needed to deliver tests, other funds will be provided from the NHIF's budget for first-line workers. Here I would like to open the clamp our position is that we should not and should not have a differentiated payment of the medics, the medical staff who are on the front line, in view of the criterion of what working hours they have worked with. They are in a contagious environment, in a contagious environment, not to say a risky environment, so pay should be more in terms of those who work more hours, over 12, 24 hours, there being a differentiated approach, motivated and properly and objectively appreciate the work of colleagues. And you and I, as doctors, know it very well. Unfortunately, you and other experts pointed out that there could be a wave at the end of August. God forbid, but if there is, we have to be ready for it. In this regard, my question is: are all these means available to prepare the health system to meet the next wave of the coronavirus, if it comes at the end of August, will the medical institutions be ready to activate and can these funds be provided if no budget update is approved? In addition, with regard to vaccines, sharing the arguments that you and your colleagues have pointed out, and in view of the critical level, it is true that colleagues have set an example with England and Germany, but there is another example of Israel, where, as a result of the high level of vaccination of the population, there are almost no patients and the mortality is one of the lowest in the world. We all know that, so vaccination, as a doctor I call from the stands of the National Assembly, there must be. And in this regard, my question to you is: do you think the information campaign that needs to be further developed is sufficient? As I understand it, if I am not mistaken, representatives of the World Health Organization have offered assistance, even funding, to the positive aspects, and to the negative consequences that each of us as a doctor knows that vaccination should be carried out and the population should be vaccinated at the fastest possible rate. But I sum up my question: will these funds be provided because here, unlike other policies, we are not entitled to alternatives and at the last moment to relocation funds from one feather to another feather? These funds must be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u237	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Chakarov, thank you for the question you asked and for the call you made as a doctor. Perhaps everyone, coming out of this stand, should send it to show their empathy for this process. The funds referred to will not be provided unless an update of the budget is made. They are not planned in advance these funds. I must add to them that resources will also be used by the National Health Insurance Fund, not only from the state budget, but also from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, and also to inform you that these are funds that are estimated, which would be necessary in the most severe situation of the health care system. They must be added to the Social Ministry's estimates on social support for socially weak people in the pandemic wave, the funds under the programs of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Economy to support stopped business activities of people who have lost their jobs in the pandemic wave. In other words, the amount of the necessary funds will be much greater than that of over 500 million. BGN, which are only needed in the health system in the worst development of the situation. We can save a lot of this money if we treat ourselves more involved, more responsible to the vaccination process, if we convince our loved ones, if you convince your followers, your fellow parties, your supporters, that this is important if you are even important to the state, and not just to their personal lives and to their personal people, because this account we pay for it all. It may seem imaginary from the state budget, but the state budget, as we all know, is our countrymen's money, that's taxpayers' money. We'll pay the bill, all of us. Much cheaper for our country and our society would be if people were vaccinated. The costs will be significantly less, incomparably less than they would be in the case of the worst situation of development of the pandemic wave. [[Heckling]] The information campaign is not enough, it is also visible from the results. If it were effective and effective enough, the results wouldn't be that. Indeed, the World Health Organization has agreed to assist us, including financially, in the amount of up to 500 thousand. the dollar related to the conduct of such an information campaign. I mentioned some of the things that are currently moving and will start in August, the next government will be able to move and move on, but the efforts in this direction must really continue. It is also important to stress that it should be targeted at each target group, because the motives and arguments of the people of the individual target groups to give up are different in their refusal to vaccination. Thank God, the representatives of the religious communities I want to take this opportunity to thank them, responded to our invitation to participate in this public council, except, by the way, of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, but they are also not opposers of vaccination, drew some other arguments that they could not have their representative present at this time, so I accept that they are also our allies in this process. All religious communities who were represented in the country and who attended this public council stated their firm support for this process. They themselves said that they are assisting each and every religion, the services they hold, their meetings with voters to support the vaccination process. This is what their leaders have said, which I also find positive news. It should also be borne in mind that the results of this campaign cannot be expected to come the next day. It's a process. A well-run campaign would probably give its positive results within the next or the next month. If that's what you see, then she was successful, but time won't wait for us. Time is what it is, the situation is what it is, so every effort at this point is worth doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u239	Thank you. ♪ And from ♪ ♪ Get up ♪ ♪ Get up ♪ ♪ Get up ♪ ♪ Get up ♪
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u240	Mr. Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen! In the previous third wave of COVID-19, although we were constantly listening from the televisions and the media from the government at this time, that our hospitals are fully prepared to meet the upcoming wool, what was really happening in hospitals in the country was as follows: a single doctor was both on duty and in the ward, and in an internal ward or another ward of general character in the hospital, which, of course, suggests about 10-12 times on duty to dress up and strip off protective equipment, giving consultations throughout the hospital, circulating between an infectious ward of his character and the rest of the hospital. This is titled: the Bulgarian model for dealing with the crisis. Are there now specific measures in your country's preparation plan to prevent such personnel deficits in certain regions most affected by the pandemic from happening again, putting the health and life of patients and their doctors at risk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the risk of this thing continuing to happen in separate places exists. We're not gonna close our eyes and say things are pink and everything is done. The plan itself can't cover that risk. However, it can be reduced significantly if the way of financing of this activity is changed, for which there is some level of agreement between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Union, and not only in relation to the financing of the activities in hospitals, but also in search of a mechanism for financing the activities and in outpatient conditions for the treatment of a species of patients. The methodology for paying these famous 1000 leva has already been changed. for the first line in order to focus more on the people who really face the problems of the horse because there was a bad situation in the effort at all costs to help everyone with these famous 1000 leva, money was provided, which reached people who had nothing to do with the treatment of the horse, nor have they met even patients with a horse. Simply the methodology and approach was made in such a way that, along with people who, like you, a colleague, have stripped and changed several times a day to enter one and the other compartment and carried out the entire load of the battle with a horse. Along with them, who deservedly received additional remuneration, received additional remuneration and people, I say again, who had nothing to do with it, including people from the administration, there are signals of such things. This methodology has been changed to direct these funds to really working people and those who are up against a horse to increase the efficiency of the work. The correction, the change in the way the activities are financed by the NHIF and the Bulgarian Medical Union, and what I have said before, which I will repeat again the change in laws and allow hospitals to respond to such situations more flexibility, are the tools that will help not repeat these cases, or, if repeated, to be much less and much more limited things that you have spoken about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u243	Thank you. We are now moving on to the first questions on the hearing on the vaccination campaign. We start with the first question from "There is such a people." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u244	Dear Minister, before I ask the question, I will just point out that you stated just now that there are no serious side effects of vaccines in Bulgaria, which is not true. I can connect you personally to people who have suffered strokes. I'll give it to you. You don't have a problem. I'll give you the contacts and the people themselves will get you back on your feet. My question is this. I would like you to give me accurate data, or if you can't, as soon as you give me accurate data on the following question: how many people in Bulgaria who have spent COVID-19 and have been tested by PCR, how many of them have become ill again? Because there's a lot of cases out there with the vaccines. I'm clear, aren't I? My question is extremely short. I'm hoping for an exact answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u245	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u246	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Yordanov, when I say that there are no severe side effects, I mean that there is a legal system in the country for registration of such side effects. The data shall be published on the website of the Drug Executive Agency. These are officially registered cases. We, as a government administration, deal with these officially registered cases, which have been proven to be related to the introduction of a vaccine.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u247	They're not published.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u248	There is a procedure to determine whether they are related, whether they are a direct and immediate consequence of this thing, or are they a consequence of something else? I would be grateful for any other data to guide the competent authorities, if they are not registered, to check them, because this is important. This is important for all people, for those who use vaccines. We need to be aware of these things as a society, such as government and not recommend something that is not good. So I'd be grateful if you'd give it to us to check it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u249	I'll send you the papers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u250	As far as official data are concerned, I specifically asked, following the logic that truth is the best policy, I specifically ordered the Drug Executive Agency not only to publish the short characteristics of vaccines, so that everyone could read the possible side effects, but to publish all the details of the side effects recorded so far so that no one left the public with the impression that something is being concealed or there is something that is not being said. That's all that's officially registered. I call from this tribune to our compatriots: if you have any doubt about the side effect received, whatever it is important for the Drug Executive Agency, it is important for the state to report this to your doctor, or the Drug Executive Agency, or the Ministry of Health, in order to register and verify these cases. That's how you help all the other people. I told you, I apologize, not on Sunday, but by the end of this week we'll have, hopefully again, if I can fight the bureaucratic machine, we'll have data that will allow me to answer your second question, which you've asked, about how many of the vaccinated people are registered again as patients because they're currently gathering...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u251	That's not the point. The question is: how many of those who have been sick again?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u252	And this question, and those who have been vaccinated and registered cases, I hope that this information will be available and accessible to everyone. Moreover, the system is designed not to collect them once, and it will continue to collect them from here on with accumulation. And these data can be accessible, of course, in an unpersonalized form, to all who wish to see them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u253	Thank you. From GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u254	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, you mentioned earlier that the negative treatment of vaccines was the basis for the small number of vaccines. I totally agree with you. And my question to you is this: will you call all those media, public figures and protesters citizens who burned masks and explained that the virus is not dangerous, to join a positive campaign rather than a negative one? And so far, have you been vaccinated?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u255	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, thank you for the question. Yeah, I've been vaccinated. I've been sick, and I've been vaccinated. I'm double protected. I call on all our compatriots and those who have burned masks, and those who have said that the virus is safe, to rethink their vision and call on people to defend themselves better. I am making this call not for the first time, but for the first time in the stands of the National Assembly. I hope to be heard and repeat again what I said to Dr. Chakarov: to do this to everyone who comes out, to make such an appeal to show which side is in this process. It may not always be, but at least today it says: I am on this side and call on this to be done as I am doing at this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u257	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! One of the worst consequences for society in the last year and a half in connection with the CIVID-19 pandemic in the Republic of Bulgaria was its impact on the educational system. We listened to the beginning of a raging and enthusiastic talk about how online education is very well perceived, everyone is doing great, and we saw now in the statement of both the representative of the Ministry of Education and specialists what disastrous consequences there are for Bulgarian children. I will only allow myself to remind you before the question and the statement of UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres that the world can easily go to an educational disaster that will have a scary effect on every single nation in the next 10-15-20 years. My question to you is. First, in countries like the United States of America, measures are already being taken to vaccinate citizens under 18 years of age. There are also vaccines, one of them has already entered the authorisation regime, the other also enters the authorisation regime. What is your relationship with the Ministry of Education to prepare such a vaccination plan for Bulgarian schools? And the second, looking at your plan, here we talked to our colleagues from "There is such a people"; we see no change, regardless of the many data that came out of specialists and from specialized terms about how it affects this infection of young people. And now in the plan again, at one level of the plan, both schools and drinking facilities are closed at the same time, I give only an example, and the gaming halls. Like most specialists in the world strongly recommend that it was implemented by France, and many other countries, Bulgaria had the most closed regime in terms of education to leave the Bulgarian students to the maximum attendance training. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u259	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the relationship between the management of the two ministries is excellent. They are developing with our participation and support a campaign among teachers with the desire to increase the number of teachers who have been vaccinated, as it is also very low. We are faced with such a dilemma. There is a risk if there is an attendance training, of infection and of the illness of teachers, and at the same time the reluctance of many teachers to inoculate to reduce that risk. As for who closes when, it's not done by my whim or anyone else. I've already had the opportunity to say: I understand health care, I'm not a microbiologist, I'm not an infectiousist, and the plan for who should be shut down is made by epidemiologists, and it's based on the experience that had from the previous two major waves that our country experienced. As the principle that is followed, I can say in general, I know that is the last to close the smallest. The children's gardens are at the end. They will stay to work almost all the time if it comes to raising. It starts with the biggest ones and comes to the smallest ones by planning a gap in hours, then stopping, then the others, the others and finally the smallest ones, when there is no more where to go. As far as vaccination is concerned, yes, one of the vaccines has a marketing authorisation for vaccination above 12 years of age. At any moment, a second vaccine may have been authorised to be given to such children. But to the questions that have been addressed to me so far, I will answer in the same way to you: it is not the public administration's job to tell whether children should be vaccinated. It's the doctor's job to treat them, their personal physician. It's a medical question. He, along with their guardians, must decide whether to vaccinate the children and when to vaccinate them. It's not a problem the administration has to solve.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u261	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u262	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! A study came out yesterday again in the Bulgarian press of the National Health Institute in Italy. From the beginning of February until now, the reason to enjoy the beginning of February as a date is that the actual vaccination in the country has started, and so far in Italy there have been 35,774 deaths from a coronavirus. Of these almost 36 thousand, only 423 are of people who have been vaccinated adequately, that is, twice, which means about one percent The vaccines are working! The vaccines are working! We have to say it from this tribune, and we have to do everything we can to communicate it to people. We need to look for leaders of opinion. Sometimes they find themselves in the most unusual places. There is a tiny island that lies between England and France in the Channel. For example, they had found that the largest leaders of the island's opinion were hairdressers, because women spent there for hours, and there was until recently the highest percentage of vaccinated. I'm not saying that's what we should be doing. What I'm saying is that we should be looking for out-of-the-box campaigns. Bulgaria is emerging as a country that is particularly skeptical of vaccines, including people such as Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Chorbanov, who are leaders of opinion, themselves and their communities, and in general in the country, and they need convincing. We're not talking about persuading people to use force here. Around me yesterday, I counted 26 people close to me died of a coronavirus. One of them is my wife's 27-year-old student, another is my personal doctor. Almost all of them are fathers, parents of my friends. None of them have ever died. Yeah, well, it's clear that Delta sometimes breaks through, and some people get vaccinated, but her mortality is significantly lower there. Yes, in all likelihood, a booster will be needed for some vaccines after the sixth month, but absolutely unimportant vaccines work. My question to you: have you thought of any more unusual campaign? In Bulgaria there are great talented people and I am sure that creative agencies will have people who will be ready to look for options for an unusual campaign that is unifying, which is not disuniting and will not divide people into...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u263	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u264	...controversial groups, but to collect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u265	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Katsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u266	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully share what you said. Yeah, standard approach doesn't work. It is evident that so far mostly standard approaches have been used and they do not work. A campaign is really needed to focus on the different psychology of different groups of people, including leaders of opinion, as you rightly shared. The fact is, I will confirm this thing, in Bulgaria officially the death of Kovid is four percent. Flying is an indicator that measures the number of people who have died from a disease, of course, with the agreement that there are probably a large number of people who are not registered, but these are the data we currently have. About two million vaccines were made. So far, there hasn't been a single recorded case of a man who died after making a vaccine. So even if we argue, but it's not the place here to argue about the effectiveness of the vaccine, it's a scientific dispute, not a political one. Even if we argue about their effectiveness, it is certainly that the vaccine is not dangerous. You can die from the Kovid, you will surely not die from the vaccine. There's not a single registered death. [[Heckling]] Even from that point of view, even from that point of view... [[speaking indistinctly]] ...in our country I'm talking, officially not registered, even from this point of view we should say clearly yes, it is effective or not, perhaps yet additional evidence will be collected, will be studied whether you need another booster dose, and two booster doses are also things science should decide, not politicians. What we need to tell people is don't be afraid, the probability of dying from a coronavirus is a hundred times greater than dying from the fact that you have been vaccinated, and the vaccine will protect you, if not from getting sick in 100% of the cases, it will certainly prevent you from dying.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u267	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, just now in your exhibition you said that Bulgaria is currently in the Green Zone. It is no secret that very soon, probably within the next month we will move on to the following areas that you have signed in this National Operational Plan to counter COVID-19. I am a hot supporter of balanced measures, because it is extremely unpleasant if we come to opposition to medical measures. I would therefore like to comment on this National Operational Plan to counter the COVID-19 from the point of view that it contains only medical measures to deal with the conflict. It is clear to everyone that other measures are needed. Therefore, I would like to ask a question relating to this: do you not believe that this National Plan for Counteracting CoVID-19 should also contain the measures that are within the scope of the activities of the other ministries? For example, at what levels of morbidity and sickness should be included the relevant measures of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the preservation of employment; of the Ministry of Economy to support the business of small and medium-sized enterprises, what is also the topic of colleagues from other parliamentary groups, to support self-insuring persons, craftsmen and so on. All this can happen if the measures of the other ministries are added to this National Operational Plan so that this plan looks balanced enough and covers all spheres of society. Because it is hardly possible for anyone to assume that a ministry in this case, the Ministry of Health, can cope with the next wave of wool, which is necessarily occurring with problems in the other spheres of society. And the last question I would like to ask you is related to this: You, as Minister of Health, can you offer the Bulgarian Medical Union and the National Health Insurance Fund to the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund to offer a new clinical path for the treatment of the so-called post-kovid syndrome? This is one of the problems that creates enough tension in medical facilities, and I am convinced that if it is a good wish this can happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u269	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Katsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u270	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dr. Ademov, of course, can be proposed the creation of any tool for treating patients to supplement the existing National Framework Treaty, provided there is a medical need for this and to be formulated appropriately. I don't know if what you're saying is the best way. It's probably not the only option. There are many others, but it's worth it. I agree with you to consider such options in order to further develop the system of reporting and payment of this type of activity when it is carried out. We're not talking about activities that have not been carried out and are accounted for. I'm making this arrangement. As far as your other question is concerned, of course it is. This is a plan that concerns the Ministry of Health and Structures of the National Health System. The financial projections I was talking about concern the health care system, as I just answered. It is imperative to add to this plan the plans of the different ministries and departments of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in order to prepare the entire state administration, municipal administration, all of our structures, to be completed and to add to this plan the plans of the different ministries and departments of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the issues that you have pointed out; the Ministry of Economy in support of stopped businesses was with loans, either with funds to pay for lost jobs; the Ministry of Education and Science for the way it is stopped, compensated or restored and the learning process is being conducted. In this sense, if the plans of some of these ministries require a correction in some of the points of the plan For this reason, I introduced the health plan drawn up by the Ministry of Health to the Council of Ministers, and it was adopted by a decision of the Council of Ministers, by which a decision was given to all ministries and departments, after being thoroughly acquainted with the plan drawn up by the Ministry of Health, to develop their plans, to propose them to the Council of Ministers and to become part of the entire National Plan for Countering A Cove Wave. You should, if everyone does their job the way they should, speedily, operationally and responsibly, within a week or two this thing should happen and you should have as a National Assembly a complete plan that affects absolutely all spheres of public life and the administration's commitments, and not just the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u271	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u272	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Katsarov, we remember the month of December when the first vaccines were produced when approval began. Then began a kind of competition between countries in the world which country would be vaccinated faster and faster out of the Lockdowns, which at that time had held the world in their grip, with a view to being able to return to their normal lives, with a view to making business work, and being more competitive compared to other countries. Then, as you mentioned in a number of interviews, you mentioned it today, and Bulgaria made some serious mistakes especially related to the one vaccine that was ordered in the largest quantities and was initially not approved to get to the point that January, February and March Bulgaria to inoculate a small number of people, just because of the lack of vaccine when it was the largest boom of the coronavirus, then when there were the most willing, we remember that people waited and could not get enough vaccine in Bulgaria. Then it came down to the Prime Minister to stop vaccination with the same vaccine, which was already delivered, was approved by the European Commission and in the end people could not be vaccinated because of the creation of a psychosis and eventually simply refused to re-inoculate with this vaccine, which the government initially chose and bet on it. Of course we have to look ahead. We're gonna get into this race again. God forbid, in case there is a fourth wave in the whole world, we will be in a hurry again to see who is faster to open, which business will start before the other and which population will be vaccinated faster, because no doubt vaccines are a prerequisite for working business, for a normal society, but we must not forget the mistakes of the past and we must not repeat them. Therefore, my question to you is: did the Ministry of Health analyze the reason why it was originally chosen precisely the vaccine of............................................................. the vaccine of.................................................................................................................................................................................... Why did you take the largest amount of it? Why did it come to donating vaccines to "Astra Zeneka" and to be discarded? What is the financial loss of Bulgaria from these actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u273	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u274	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Delchev, you have also given an answer to many of the questions you have asked. I can only guess why such a decision has been made. Frankly, from the point of view of time, if we can move over August 2020 in time, it doesn't seem so illogical. It's a vaccine manufactured by a renowned manufacturer. It was the cheapest one that was available at the time on the market. Many of the things that happened after that probably couldn't have been suggested at the time. In my opinion, the error is more in that strategically it is not correct in such a situation of complete ambiguity in terms of both the virus and possible vaccines which will come out and whether it will come out at all and will be approved. The correct approach would not be to seek the cheaper and more likely quality or any other arguments, but to bet on everyone. Because you can't be sure which one of them won't crash in the approval process. At this point, none of them were approved. This error in betting larger amounts of the vaccine, which was then late and with its marketing authorisation led to the fact that in January and February the country had small quantities. Additional requests were subsequently made for the other types of vaccines. There are now sufficient amounts of all types of vaccines. These critical months at the beginning of the year have indeed been missed and one of the reasons for this omission is this. I fully share with you and what is said about stopping at some point in the application of the vaccines of Astra Zenetka. It was suspended by the Prime Minister's order, which is unacceptable. This is not a matter of politicians, not even the Prime Minister. There are written clear laws in the country, the one that can stop the application of a medicine is the only Drug Executive Agency based on data obtained.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u275	That's how it was handled with an order from the IAR.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u276	Because then, if you remember, the previous day, the director of the Executive Medicines Agency said in an official statement that there is no problem with the vaccine and it can be applied. A few hours later, the Prime Minister said he was stopping the vaccine. The next day, the Drug Executive Agency argued that it had to be stopped. After a few weeks, the vaccine was released and administered throughout the country. It is also applied to the present day throughout the country. We didn't make financial estimates on how much this thing cost us. I am not sure whether they can be calculated in money the losses we have suffered from this thing, especially if they are calculated as losses, and the inability to limit the scale of the epidemic wave that we suffered in March and April. Perhaps human lives would be saved. Perhaps many, many funds would have been saved, but I am not sure that it is at all possible, at least it is not within the capabilities of the Ministry of Health to make such a calculation of how much the wrong choice of vaccines cost us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u277	Thank you. We continue with the second questions from the first part of the hearing submitted by Georgi Mihailov. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u278	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, then we will have a specific comment on the subject. In fact, we did not get an answer to the question: why should the two-dosed complete vaccination course have to be PCR when entering the country, regardless of the certificate they have? Is this not a problem for both citizens of the country because it complicates and costs their entry and from the perspective of tourists who visit our resorts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u279	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chorbanov, what you are talking about concerns entering our country of citizens who come from countries that are in the red zone. The alternative to this thing is that we do not allow any entry into the country of citizens from these countries. Since we believe that this is excessive, especially with regard to the citizens of the European Union, and given the data that people who have been vaccinated may, in some cases, become carriers of the virus again, as an additional guarantee for the protection of our population has been introduced for citizens arriving from countries in the red zone, they must also have a certificate of PCR testing in the last 72 hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u281	Thank you. From GERB-SDS. Here you go. Do you have a question? You don't. Thank you. Mr. Mihaylov, come in from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u282	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Katsarov, I will move on to the second part of my question, which was put about two hours ago. This problem was well discussed in the National Assembly, but there was no time left to be resolved. I am interested in your personal opinion on this issue, as you have taken action. I'll draw it in a sentence or two. By accommodating ourselves with our preparation for entry into the Eurozone, measures were taken in the legislation which, in practice, I will say an allegoria, which perpetuated the selected management bodies of the medical institutions, creating prerequisites to incorporate people who have absolutely nothing to do with the strategy, the characteristics of the work of these medical institutions. They ended up there, there were people who I didn't want to give specific examples here. You have received from many medical institutions motivated, signed by very large parts of their collectives, requests to take measures. Regardless of the difficulties that the Law has provided you, which have spread in many other areas of life, beyond healthcare, to the government, I mean the service, you have made changes, as far as I recall, in five medical institutions, at least this is my information. "Varna, Sofia, so I think it is, unless memory lies to me. My question is: we will now take a legislative initiative to change this, as it is inadequate legislation, the principal of one direction in public, economic or administrative life cannot manage the governing bodies of its medical institutions in this case. Since your actions raised very painful questions, very posters have raised these, came to opposition within the professional guild, I would like to hear here, before the beginning of our discussion in the coming days and weeks in parliament: what is your personal attitude as a person who has a direct view and as a former deputy minister from 20 years ago, and as a representative of patient organizations, as a publicist and as a politician now and as a minister, to this so serious and neural problem in Bulgarian healthcare? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u283	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u284	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, things are not good in the health system, they are not good in the hospital sphere, they are not good in the public hospitals at all. You are absolutely right that much of them, not all of them, not to put everyone under a common denominator, but a large part of them are poorly managed, are in poor financial condition and do not provide the service, medical care, with the necessary quality. Three of these directors were replaced for serious violations in the hospital management process. These are Government Hospital, Alexandrovska Hospital and Hospital Pirogov is known to everyone. "St. Anna" "Varna," which you mention, has announced a procedure of choice because the term of the previous management has expired. That's the procedure for her. I have taken the trouble of seeing the question you are asking me to bring out the latest data on the state of state hospitals in the country. They're the following. The hospital's obligations towards the end of the first quarter are the latest data available to us. lv. These are the duties of all state hospitals in the country. Of these, 76 million are overdue. lv. The maturity of the debt has passed. Since the beginning of last year only state hospitals have received funding of 1 billion from the National Health Insurance Fund. 470 million. lv. Only from the National Health Insurance Fund. In addition, the public hospitals received subsidies either in the form of capital expenditure paid by the Ministry of Health, either in the form of direct subsidies adopted by a decree of the Council of Ministers or in the form of additional subsidies, up to 85% of the activity reported in January last year. The total amount of subsidies received from public hospitals under these mechanisms amounts to 325 million. lv. In other words, within a year and six months, these public hospitals, around 60, were financed by a total of billions and 725 million. lv. That's a very large sum. Hospitals in our country, including public hospitals, have not received such large sums before. This is related to the fight against the horse pandemic, it is related to the payment of money for the first line, it is related to the payment directly of salaries from the National Health Insurance Fund to doctors and nurses, to nurses, what has been done since the beginning of this year. However, generous funding, the financial situation of hospitals in general is not good. It does not differ radically from not radically, but it is hardly different from their financial situation, as it was before they received these generous subsidies in the last year. This only speaks of the inefficiency of the management of these structures as a whole. Once again, there are exceptions between them that are economically managed effectively, but overall the effectiveness of management is poor. That's why they're bad and the financial results. Yes, where there are poor financial results and poor governance, where hospitals are in a situation of actual bankruptcy, because there are such university hospitals, I do not want to mention the names so as not to create panic, mood or other things, but there are those who are in actual bankruptcy and whose managers, if they comply with the Commercial Law, should ask the court to be declared bankrupt and that it should be entered as a condition in the Commercial Register. With regard to management, you are entitled to change the way the management bodies are chosen and appointed. You are also entitled to change the form of management and, if you will, the type of registration of these hospitals. However, this alone will not improve the effectiveness of either management or increase the quality of medical care. Other tools will be needed to achieve this. As for the Minister of Health, you asked me about my personal opinion. My personal opinion is that the Minister of Health all the time, being and the owner of hospitals, is in conflict of interest because his role and task to form politics through the government of Bulgaria is conflicted with the fact that he is the owner of a small part of the medical institutions. And when laws and regulations require sanctioning these medical institutions, he is in a situation of sanctioning himself or the medical institutions for which he plays a principal role. This is an issue that I put to your attention both in your future discussions and in your future decisions to think carefully about whether the Minister of Health is the right person to be the principal of public hospitals, and whether all these hospitals should be state hospitals, and whether it is better to think whether the district hospitals should be transferred to management of municipalities? Because what does the Minister of Health understand and what information is there about how to manage Yambol Hospital in Dobrich, Silistra Hospital? He will not be treated in these hospitals, neither the minister nor the people who are with him. This is something that directly affects the population of these cities, they are treated in these hospitals. What happens in these hospitals is in front of these people. Isn't it most logical to give these people the opportunity to the municipalities, to the municipal councils, to decide who to manage the hospital, how to manage it, because they best see what is happening because it happens in front of their eyes because they are being treated there and they are most interested in finding good governance and seeking responsibility if this government is not bad?! Because not to distort our soul, the Ministry of Health and the way in which hospital management is currently being determined, the way in which the board of directors is currently being filled, are very often becoming an instrument for satisfying certain party and political interests, and not so much a tool for good management of hospitals. And this thing will probably continue to be the same in the future. If we want these processes to be changed, we need to think seriously about these issues: should the Minister be the principal of all public hospitals and shouldn't regional hospitals be managed and managed by municipalities rather than by the Minister of Health from Sofia? But that's just one side of the story. As I told you, this will not solve another group of problems related not only to economic efficiency but also to the quality and access of medical care. We are the country where patients pay the most for treatment. We are the country where patients' dissatisfaction with medical care is the highest. We have severe disproportions, not only geographically, we have severe disproportions within the individual specialties, severe disproportions between hospital and outpatient care. These are issues that can be resolved, but the instruments for them are not the way in which their management bodies are chosen. The instruments can achieve a better quality of medical assistance are reduced to the centralized funding model, which was built in which at the top of the pyramid is the health minister and the manager of the Health Insurance Fund and they distribute the pieces of the pie called the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Budget of the Ministry of Health, this model must be changed. We need to deregulate the system and get back to the principle: money to go where the sick person goes. The sick man is looking for the hospital, the money goes there. They shouldn't be centrally distributed, they should be following the patient. Thus, we guarantee that they will go where the hospitals really work well, because the consumer has chosen to go there. This is the way to put the consumer in the center of the health system. At the moment it is not at the center of the health system, it is somewhere in its deep periphery. No one cares about his opinion. We have become from a system that must satisfy consumers, we have turned this system into a system to satisfy service providers. We have transformed the system into which you should make the money to receive into a system that receives a preliminary budget, and your quest is not to work out, but to learn this fine term that is used to absorb the budget that has been given to you in advance and to make efforts next year to get an even bigger budget than the people who make decisions. So a built system does not work in the interests of patients. It works in the interests of a group of people, and this group of people is against changes in the health system. It will react to every attempt to reform the health system because it has already settled in the current model, it is used to receiving these budget subsidies, it is used to absorbing these budget subsidies and will resist any changes in the health system. However, the losers of this are consumers who are the ones for whom the health system is built, those who prepay this medical service with their health contributions. And you, as politicians, I also put myself, of course, in that, although temporarily here, you are obliged, or we are obliged, to make efforts to change the system so that it becomes helpful and friendly to the consumer, to follow the interests of the consumer, and not to some specific task of this system.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u285	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u286	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In the 45th National Assembly, Democratic Bulgaria submitted a draft amendment and supplement to the Health Act and then one part of the colleagues who were members of parliament said that this amendment and supplement could not trigger. Mr. Minister, thank you for proving that you can, because this was the proposal to create this plan that you created, with clear parameters when and when certain criteria are excluded. In the 46th National Assembly, DB is again importing this same project, although there is already a plan, and the reason for that is that this planning process is not a process that is done by one government, but is not done by another government, but it is a legal process that ensures that if we have such cases or other cases, it will be standard practice, because when we have it, we can calculate what costs will be, this process can be a learning process. If any of the figures in this plan are not appropriate, it should be changed and the system should be optimized accordingly and become better and better over time. My question to you is this: how can we ensure that this plan, once it has already been established, is a training plan that takes over information on a daily basis or permanently from the environment, from professional organisations, from all stakeholders, including the Economic Ministry, the Social Ministry and all others, so that it becomes better and better, and that this process is an integral part of the functioning of this plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u287	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u288	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear Dr. Simidchiev! You have given the answer to the question. The way to make this plan a sustainable tool, to be able to complement and correct it in different situations is to strengthen legislatively. The fact is, this plan might not have been available. This plan is not the result of a legal obligation of the Ministry of Health to work such a plan, the one I presented to you, this plan is made because of the good will, the desire and responsibility of the current team of the Ministry of Health to present such an instrument, to leave behind such an instrument against the background of the current epidemic situation. We couldn't have done it, we didn't have to do anything, but we think it's our duty, we've done it as a responsibility to our country, to the next government that you choose. It may not be the perfect plan, but you have the wonderful opportunity to improve it and to make it the one that would best suit the interests of our population.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u289	Thank you. Do you have a question from the DPS? No. You're gonna be okay. You're gonna be okay. You're Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u290	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! A few months ago in the National Health Information System, functionalities were started in connection with the vaccination process. Would you please inform us which company was the contractor of this system and of what value? And if this was an information service, was there any reassignment of another inhouse method performer, and are we sure that all the data of all the vaccinated persons have been entered in the system, since, according to public information, the start of the system is after the start of the vaccination process? Also, how do we control the input data so that we can be sure of their correctness, as a lot of patients have appeared in the media who complained in delay, that there is a gap between the input data and what is reflected in the system? However, we witnessed the case in Sandanski with the four municipal councillors from GERB. Is it envisaged that information and reminder campaigns, e.g. via SMS, will be carried out in the system for individuals who have not yet been vaccinated, as in many countries, including Britain, have similar practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u292	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, this system is built by the state-owned company. Unfortunately, I don't have the necessary details for which I have no information to give you a very specific answer. The assurances I received from the company are that all the data is registered in it, although it started later.. This question was asked, but that they were added further. If you wish, I can carry out an additional check and give you this additional information on the issues you are asking. I just don't know them, and I can't answer that right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u293	Thank you. We move on to the second round of questions about the vaccination plan part. There is such a people? No questions asked. From GERB-SDS? I won't. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u294	Thank you, Madam President. I would start with a finding that is my own opinion and does not concern your competence, Mr. Minister, but I personally believe that as long as hospitals continue to be commercial companies, and health continues to be a commodity, our health will be on this line and probably will deteriorate. However, what I would like to ask you is related to several specific issues that may concern millions of Bulgarian citizens. These questions relate precisely to the PCR tests to be carried out. My first question is: what is the price, Mr. Minister of the International Consumables Market for a PCR test? Is it true that the price is about 10 leva.? If so, I think it is in your competence to check and see who wins on the back of the Bulgarian citizens huge money. My second question is related to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u295	There's only one question you have, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u296	They're thematically related.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u297	Questions to understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u298	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u299	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u300	My second sub-question, Mr. Minister, is whether they are recognized, are the antigen tests aligned to the PSUR tests because one cost 90 BGN, the others cost 20 or 30 BGN.? And my third question is...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u301	Question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u302	Question, I apologize, Madam President, is what is the credibility of the PSR tests, because in the German press came out horrific facts about Mr Drosten, who is the creator of this test, and the authenticity of these tests. And if the credibility varies within 30 percent...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u303	Your time is up, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u304	...what do we do and why do these tests at all? I say this not for anything else, but because it concerns perhaps hundreds of thousands or millions of Bulgarian citizens, from whom every month a huge amount of money is taken, which I suppose you know where they are going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u305	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u306	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't know what the cost of a PC test is, I've never dealt with it, I've never bought and sold PSR tests and supplies for them. The latest information, by memory, in connection with an amendment in the tariff for fees collected by the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, which performs the PSUR tests, is of the order of BGN 40. The cost of consumables, but this is only by memory, because there is a financial justification for the price. A proposal was submitted to reduce the price from 130 to 90 BGN for the fee, it is collected as a fee from the National Centre. But most likely this price depends on the different types of consumables, on the different types of apparatus they apply to, from the market conditions in which you buy, from the quantities you buy, so it's hard to answer. If you're holding on to this, I can try to do this type of research for registered prices and sales prices in our country, although I'm afraid it may also be industrial secrecy and not be shared with us as they are. As far as the question is concerned, have the antigen tests been aligned with the SSR tests? Yes, they have been aligned another month of December 2020 with an order from the Minister of Health. The difference in the treatment of tests from the point of view of our country, our conditions, there is no difference. If you look at the code portal and see the number of reported cases and reported cases newly infected, you will see that two thirds of them, and even more, are those registered with antigen tests. They are also recognized in the contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund for payment through clinical pathways, they are also recognized as our compatriots who enter our country and are quarantined, and by antigen test can be released from quarantine. They are not equal in terms of travel abroad and within the European Union. The rules of the European Commission require as a condition for the issue of a green certificate the so-called green certificate, a PRC test or, of course, vaccination. There's a certain difference in treatment. With regard to treatment in our country, there is no such difference. Who was that, excuse me, third subpoena? [[Reply from GERB-SDS It wasn't important.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u307	For commercial companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u308	For the sales companies?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u309	No, no, about credibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u310	What about the credibility of the PSR tests? She certainly is not the person who has to answer the question of the credibility of the PSUR tests....................... it is not 100%................................ it is not 100%........................... The initial data on the initiation of the PSUR tests was for up to 30% false negative results in the conduct of the PSUR tests. This is something, however, that changes and which also depends both on the type of tests themselves and on the type of apparatus used. It is hardly possible to give a single answer for all possible PDR tests and for all possible PCR processing machines, the same answer for what is the reliability. In any case, the overwhelming opinion of scientists is that this is the golden standard for testing and proving a mold. It continues to be so far, although to its great extent antigen tests have already been assimilated to these tests. We also use them not only to prove the presence of a virus in a person, we use them to identify and exactly what this virus is, which of the variations of the virus is. As you know the last weeks in Bulgaria have already circulating the Delta version. This is achieved precisely by this type of study, a PSUR study shall be established as to what the subspecies of the virus is. So this type of study will continue to have a place, regardless of the reports of authenticity, at least to identify the individual species of the virus.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u311	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? No questions asked. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No questions asked. You're gonna stand up for yourself? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u312	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Minister, the analysis of the damage after the first and second wave of the crown crisis and especially the black records that Bulgaria achieved first in the black ranking of mortality at the end of last year up to 18 per 1,000, in the first months of this up to 21 per 1,000, showed two reasons to get to this blackest condition worldwide on mortality. The analysis of the experts showed two reasons. The first is the poor management of the crisis, demonstrated by the previous management of the Health Ministry. And the second is the poor state of the health system, for which, of course, the party has once again contributed, which has been ruling the last 15 years. We have heard what you have done in terms of managing a possible wave to get better and with the plan that you are proposing, which is specifically debriefed at what risk what measures are being taken, including restrictive, so that there are no hell-hock decisions, so that it is not important who is a friend of the prime minister and has called him to close or open certain types of establishments, including which hospitals first take a sick horse, including the supply of medicines. But according to the second component, the poor state of the health system, which is clear that there is no way with a magic wand to be changed, have you taken any action, in what order and what you expect to happen in this direction in the coming months? We are also talking about the lack of personnel, medical staff, doctors, poor pay, poor working conditions, insufficient supplies and equipment, underfinancing of the clinical path and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u314	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, yes, this is what the data from the analysis that I have assigned to the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis to prepare an analysis. This is important. This is important, not as a policy, it is important that we learn from our mistakes and not allow them in the future, so that we do not become record makers again on the indicator of total mortality. The analysis also indicated that the impact on this process also had a negative overall health status of the population. This is true, and we must be aware, however, that the poor health condition of the population is also a function of poor functioning of the health system. It didn't come by itself. So you're right, when you lower them well, we have a bad crisis management and a bad state of our health system. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u315	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u316	The measures I took in my short term to improve the health system are several groups of measures. They are very limited by the fact that a more serious reform of the health system can only be carried out with amendments to the law. I have already told you that one of the reasons hospitals cannot react quickly to the changing situation, to the change in demand for a certain type of medical care, and not only hospitals, in general the entire health system, is this legal ban on changing the structure of hospitals. This is written in the Law on Medical Institutions. It has to be corrected because it will continue to hinder from here on out. What I did after a meeting with the Head of Health and the Chairman of the Medical Association, we agreed on several directions of changes that should be followed from now on. They support them, and I hope the National Assembly will stand behind them. One of those things that everyone agrees on is that the limits of hospitals should be removed, the limits of hospitals at all. We don't need tools like that. This is the laziest way to control expenditure in the health system by limiting them through certain budgets, but also the most ineffective way to control the health system. The second thing we agreed with the representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union and NHIF is that it is high time to give priority to extra-hospital assistance, to become legal documents, to burden them with more responsibilities and with more funding primary extra-hospital assistance, dental assistance, outpatient, specialized extra-hospital assistance, by exempting hospitals from unnecessary activities that we currently have placed on them and they cannot be carried out elsewhere, not because medical science or technology does not allow, but because we somewhere in a legal act have obliged them to do them only in hospitals. That is why we have many hospitals in the country, not because someone is dying to find this type of hospital, but because the rules are written so that they encourage the participants in this process to reveal hospitals. I'll give you an example of eye hospitals. Because of the fact that in the National Framework Contract and in the basic package of medical services it is written that two of the most expensive paid eye surgery can only be done in hospital, all existing medical centres that performed outpatient eye surgery were re-registered in hospitals. As a result, we have an increase in the number of hospitals - 40 more eye hospitals - added to the total number of hospitals in the country. That's completely unnecessary. There's no eye surgery that requires you to lie in the hospital after her. You can go home. They are forced to register as such is the harshest example. There are thousands of those that concern separate medical activities. The Bulgarian Medical Union and the Health Insurance Fund agreed to change that. Those activities which may be carried out out outpatiently shall be transferred as responsibility and financing of outpatient aid. It's better for the patients, it'll help them. We don't have to force them to lie in hospitals, provide them with heating, lighting, water, food and so on, since this activity can be outpatient and they can spend the night at home. Moreover, the law and now allows 24-hour stay in outpatient conditions, if that, despite everything else, is necessary. The next thing the health care director and the President of the Bulgarian Medical Association agreed is to change the prices of medical services. Prices of medical services have led to very severe distortions within the health care system, so that everyone wants to become cardiosurgeons or invasive cardiologists and no one wants to become a pediatrician, no one wants to become an infectious disease specialist. This is a function of the way the prices of medical services are determined, and they are defined in the years mostly lobbyist. No one in our country has ever done valuation or applied any model of pricing of medical services. The policy, if you remember it, has always been such a one goes, becomes a boss and passes, increases the prices of the specialty in which he is himself, then returns to his medical establishment and begins to consume the goods he has provided himself, being in a position somewhere in the health care system, whether in the National Health Insurance Fund, whether at the Ministry of Health. Even before becoming a minister, we had developed a model for adjusting prices with colleagues, since valuation was neither done nor possible to be done in short terms, and it would not give you the real results you expect, borrowed the prices of similar activities in Great Britain and France, applied coefficients to our prices and found out which prices is not some surprise, this is publicly known, which prices are the most underestimated and which are overvalued. But this time we have an objective foundation to set foot on. Both institutions, the Bulgarian Medical Union and the National Health Insurance Fund, agree with such an approach to price adjustment so as to gradually eliminate these disproportions between different specialties and to have candidates for pediatricians as well as not just candidates for cardiosurgeons. The last thing the two institutions agreed on was, in addition to transferring responsibilities and additional funding to primary outpatient aid, to change the model of emergency assistance. That is, since the Health Insurance Fund exists, the personal doctors have been informed that they are available 24 hours a day, as it is clear that there is no way to be, no one can be available 24 hours, they are receiving funding, for providing this kind of aid, which they are entrusting to other medical institutions and, ultimately, in many places in the country, this emergency assistance is practically not provided or is not provided in the form and volume in which it should be provided. This leads to overloading the structures of Emergency Aid, which are also poorly organized and incomplete, and so we close the vicious circle. Walking from hospitals and reaching all levels of the health system, it is severely debalanced. The medical assistance we receive will get worse and the system will continue to be debalanced if no quick measures are taken to correct it. There is an agreement in the professional community already, the dominant one, I will again point out that there are many opponents of changes, those who take advantage of the current situation and do not want it to change in any way, but the majority of people want such changes. They want the good doctors to get the money, not the ones closest to power or who can pay bribes to get a bigger piece of the pie. It will end with the last thing that it is not the last, but let's say it is important to say, in terms of young doctors. With regard to young doctors, we have made changes to the public discussion this week related to the specialization of young doctors and changes related to accreditation of the training facilities of young doctors. Our approach was in the direction of providing a better opportunity for specialization, more places to provide a specialization opportunity and more young doctors to receive financial support from the state in order to be able to carry out their specialization. The changes in these two regulations are directed exactly in this direction so that we support these people, because they are indeed in a very difficult state. They are in the role of being as if their student education continues, although they are now masters of medicine. To stop now that it's been a long time, but these are some of the things we've taken to change. Once again, I hope that they will be carried out, I hope that you, as Parliament, will support this type of initiative, because the health system needs a change, and I think there is no doubt about it, and no one in this House is doubting it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u317	That concludes the second question from the hearing. We are now moving on to expressing attitude towards the Minister's answers. Each parliamentary group shall have a total of 10 minutes. There is such a people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u318	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! First of all, I thank you and those who have spoken a truth that we of..There is such a people.....................that we have been saying for two years. The truth is, there's nothing going on with this Health Services Act. The truth is, we need a whole new law. Our battle will be to make such a law, in which of all that we have spent the last 20 years, and mostly patients have lost, and hence the doctors I am talking about, the honest, small part of doctors who remain who do not think first about money, and then about our patient, we need such a law and we will work for such a law. About what you said on the second point to make me shorter. In the style of your speech, I will say that my family and I have been vaccinated. So we believe that vaccination is a choice, a personal choice and everyone in Bulgaria is given the right and the vaccine to choose and have its way. Everyone can choose and decide how they will deal with themselves and with their family. Again, to close on this second point, there is something that I as a doctor feel ashamed of, which is currently whimpering about, these are the so-called fake certificates received for money. I'm asking you to take action. In the power of the medical audit, if necessary, the prosecution, because we have information that not only in Sofia, but such a story is whirling around the sea. The price of a fake certificate of vaccine fell to 50 BGN. This is a shameful story that in just one month will lead to a strong distortion of the picture of morbidity. It turns out that people we consider to be vaccinated suddenly turn out to be sick. From then on, you know what problems will arise. But it's part of the whole history of health care trade. Regarding the majority of the plan that you provided. On the plus side, we've got something at last. We have long needed such a plan that each country should have, even without a pandemic. For the first time in 18 months, consensus behavior has emerged. Consecutive behavior, colleagues, plays a very big role so that we can have uniformity in the treatment of the sick in Sofia, Varna, Gotse Delchev and Yambol. Otherwise, in many of the patients who have gone through the hospitals of Bulgaria, including through district hospitals, the impression is that they have not received adequate treatment, that the patients in Sofia have received Remdesivir and everything they need, and the patients in Varna or Gotse Delchev have received nothing and are treated with aspirin. It is desirable for this consensus policy to reach all levels, and in the fastest way, because we do not know how many more days ahead. About the Action Plan. It is a good thing that we have a plan at central level, however, we believe that this plan should have started from the bottom up, i.e. from the level of jeeps, the level of medical center. In other words, you should first be given the plans of the RGIs, after which such a plan should be drawn up. Why would such a plan be necessary? In such an extreme situation as we had, it should not be repeated that patients should remain lying in front of the doors of the clinics or hospitals, and that is because there were no doctors assigned, starting from the jeeps, passing through the medical center, reaching the emergency room, what is he doing? What's the Jeep doing? When did he send the patient to the hospital? When does he send him home? Who's he calling? What emergency? Which team reacted? Where's the sick guy going? I ask that in the development of such a plan be started with such details, because, however insignificant, this really in practice turns out to be extremely important, and it leads, as you know, small stones turn the car around. From there, we do not see very well in your plan to enhance the role of hospital care. It's extremely inconclusive. We want to expand the function of medical centers, DCCs and specialized offices there. What started with the construction of exported and separate offices should continue and money should be directed to the medical centers and DCCs for the construction of areas, inputs and approaches to be only for patients with suspicion of a horse mackerel, so that we do not get the mixing of streams. You said 130 million funds were provided for the internal redistribution of buildings. This is extremely important, colleagues, because in extreme conditions in many hospitals, corridors of cabinets, nylons and similar hand tools, which did not give any sterility, gave no separation of streams. However, the question stands.. how will we implement control over the cost of this 130 million? This is very important because at the moment there is a danger in the presence of We are extremely interested in finding a way to control this money. The next thing we don't agree with, and we want it to change, is the admission of patients, bringing patients into hospitals at the very first level of contagion that you give. You define several hospitals in a city, which means you pollute several hospitals. We are absolutely against this. We would like to start with a hospital, usually the largest, and only when filling the capacity to switch to subsequent hospitals, because in such a situation the function of the entire health care is violated. It is clear that in hospitals there are very few who have two scanners. So it turns out that the imaging diagnostics are exactly where the streams intersect, and that's where the entire healing facility burns down. So the biggest hospital, in the second stage, are only the next hospitals. Here we will strongly oppose the inclusion of small municipal hospitals with four and six beds. This is absolutely not serious. Such hospitals do not see how they can provide adequate treatment for patients with such a serious diagnosis. On the list you provided, there's a pretty serious amount of these patients. We definitely want them to be removed from this list and, consequently,.. probably based on the expansion of the volume and beds of large district and larger hospitals that are able to accept such patients. About the big problem here exactly and the colleague from "Rise up" said about the footage. You didn't sound optimistic at all, because in the Plan we want to get and which we need to have developed by RZI and at the national level, there should be accurately distributed the footage that will work in the given compartment 24 hours. The latest wave, in county hospitals, and hospitals of quite serious rank, as smoked meat, residents, students and all sorts of people were used. That was absolutely not serious. There is an opportunity there with missions and with everything else to be directed personnel who can handle the situation more adequately. So this answer, you see, we don't have any footage, and we're gonna send out everyone that doesn't satisfy us. The situation that it was, it doesn't speak well. The media made it sound like a lot of heroism that the mayor, the teacher, and anyone else, treated patients somewhere. This is not serious, Mr. Minister and colleagues, about health care. Because after the mayor and the teacher, comes the third person in history, which is the priest. We don't want this to happen again. Particular attention should now be paid to the anti-epidemic rules in the resort centers. Currently there is, how to say, half Bulgaria has spilled and a bunch of foreigners. We are under the impression that even anti-epidemic measures, which are for normal conditions, let alone those in pandemic conditions, are not respected. We ask that attention be paid and put in the RGIs that are there, some order, because at the moment, you know that today... and colleagues have probably noticed, the number of the infected is 200. The main amount is seaside resorts. That's what we got. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u319	Thank you, Dr. Christov. From GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u320	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am very pleasantly surprised by your behavior and all that you have said so far. An extremely pleasant impression was made on the opposite direction regarding vaccination. More than a year ago, you spoke the opposite of the fact that we should not be vaccinated and that you have reservations about vaccination, and now you say the opposite. I give it as my personal merit and the result of our good information campaign, which [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Minister, she has motivated you to change your mind. Several times out of this tribune, you said you were struggling with bureaucracy. In my day, we ruled the administration without fighting red tape. Let's start with the medical facilities and what you said. Mr. Minister, the only happy thing right now is that you are leaving, and that is the most positive of your talk. [[Heckling]] If you really believe that healthcare and healthcare institutions should become an economy, as you have said in a discussion, and that they should be earned and turned healthcare into trade, I strongly disagree with your opinion. It gives me the absolute right to say that you are a merchant and that you are a health trader. Regarding the vaccination campaign, there is virtually no vaccination campaign. On the other hand, we can all see that Bulgaria is on the threshold of a new fourth wave, from SARS-CoV-2, and we continue to tolerate the criminal negligence with which it is approached to the vaccination of the Bulgarian people. It is a crime because experts show that the new options and the new wave will affect the unvaccinated population. It is criminal because a large part of this population was artificially prevented from being vaccinated in mid-May, when you restricted the possibility of young people being vaccinated, thus creating a prerequisite for each of them to postpone their vaccination, to hesitate or even to abandon the administration of the vaccine. The only thing you had to do back then, Mr. Minister, is very simple and very simple: continue the vaccination campaign at the same rate that it was launched. You had every opportunity to do it. You had enough of all kinds of vaccines. You had a working system, created, good logistics. And then the private doctors received their vaccines on site thanks to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. You can check now and ask the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior Mr. Temelakiev about this. Instead, however, the vaccination has stopped being discussed and the time of the cases has been largely wasted with inactivity and even the artificial suspension of the vaccination process created by you. I also want to say something very important, Mr. Minister. Bulgaria launched with readiness for vaccination of the adult population 27%, thanks to the daily information campaign in all national television stations, in all national radios. Thanks to the daily participation of experts, this trend has been reversed and we have reached 63% wishing to be vaccinated. Of course, at the moment when the changes took place in the Ministry of Health and when from the highest tribune the minister said in his first motivational address to the nation that there were concerns about the quality of vaccines, this inevitably wavered the Bulgarian citizens. And with regard to the accumulated negative energy in relation to the vaccination process, you also have a contribution to this being the case. In other words, in terms of vaccination of people over the age of 60, you have done a great deal of nothing. On the other hand, you refused and hesitated hundreds of thousands of young and active people to be vaccinated in time before the summer season came with the low values of the disease. Why am I saying this? To date, people over 60 years of age, of all vaccinated patients receiving one dose, are 47.1%. By the 18th of May, over the age of 60, there were 48.46%. So actively proclaimed by you to give priority to the vaccination of the elderly population and here you failed, Mr. Minister, and here you failed. The numbers prove it. And that you compare 74 days from May 12th forward and 74 days back, you compare two periods that are incomparable because of the lack of vaccines before May 12th. Compare the months when there was enough vaccine. [[Heckling]] Regarding the criminal negligence I was talking about at the beginning of the vaccination process. It's perfectly normal for a long time since you've been a practitioner, but your post as a service health minister has required knowledge, preparation and a wide-ranging vaccination campaign. Your vaccines were provided. In the end, it made an impression in the last days and the fierce criticism of the Ministry towards doctors that they had not been vaccinated. Although we have not reached the values of the European Commission in the Communication of 19 January 2021, the so-called initiative "United Front for Combating COVID-19" for vaccination coverage of at least 80% of health professionals, we, Mr. Minister, achieved 62% of doctors in Bulgaria to have been vaccinated. Regarding your National Operational Plan for dealing with the pandemic. I do not claim the authorship of our plan since 30 July 2020, because it has been done by many experts, but I say that your plan is built on this plan and I would say that maybe 80% of what is written in our plan is also in your plan. [[Mister Katsarov laughs.]] Also with regard to the Plan, as funny as it may be to you, the Plan was proposed by you, the Plan was voted by the Council of Ministers, it was adopted on 15 July. Bulgaria is currently in the so-called green zone. The Plan sets out clear and precise restrictions on domestic gatherings, private gatherings, and your order has nothing to do with your proposals and a plan adopted by the government. She contradicts him. You yourself, Mr. Minister, are not following your proposed Plan, which is absolutely absurd or at least incomprehensible to me. Regarding the lies uttered in the stands of the National Assembly. I don't see what the preparation of the health care system is and how you prepare it, but what I see, Mr. Minister, is inexplicable how one of the big hospitals in Sofia is taking the money for a scanner yesterday, and the hospital is urgently in need of this equipment for two years back in time. There are absolute documentation in the Ministry on the necessity precisely for the treatment of patients with a horse. Regarding something you like to say about the victims during the coven... [[Reply: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u321	The weather, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u322	To finish my sentence. ...that more people died in Bulgaria than during World War II. If you take the victims in the United States of America from a horse, you will see that they are more than the victims of the United States during World War II. In conclusion, from this high tribune, I would like to call once again all Bulgarian citizens who have not been inoculated. I was the first Bulgarian inoculated with the vaccine. I had accommodating illness. I have them now. I am alive, I am healthy and I guarantee the life and health of my loved ones and my patients. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u323	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u324	Before I put my card on the table, Madam President, I would like to share with you as a parliamentarians now more than four years old that there is a really serious need for amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Here we have detected colleagues, not guilty, of course, Minister Katsarov, he uses his right, but the number of his words, spoken as a linear time, surpasses almost 10 times that of the MPs' ability to place theirs. This is an absolutely unbalanced discussion. She bores the viewers who are watching us right now. It can't be led this way, absolutely. If you're at a university and so you're having a discussion, you'll be suspended immediately from both the department and everything. This without a map, so it doesn't affect my time. Now here come the troubadours who spit on you like that. I didn't expect to tell you, honestly. I'm a little sorry I let you in on that question. I did not expect as a doctor with 40 years of practice that we would throw such mud accusations at the end of this discussion, which was more or less useful to the Bulgarian nation. Because she's not so interested in the problems of the audition, to tell the whole room honestly, but the problems of the Kovid. The objectives of this discussion, Minister, should be three: The first is: what should be done, i.e. how to evaluate your plan? The second is: who brought us here? Since Professor Angelov is no more, I am uncomfortable, but there is a colleague here who listens carefully. He'll tell him. What logistics should you continue, Dr. Katsarov, as the government that ruled before you, left Bulgaria in the scariest period of the vaccination calendar without vaccines?! This is the truth and should be heard by the Bulgarian citizens once again. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't give them any shots! When this government's troubadours went on TV and said: we want to be vaccinated, but there are no vaccines. There's an organization, but there's no vaccines. Not to mention the minks. Not to mention, Mrs. Manolova, for fighting doctors in front of RZI for one or two doses of vaccines. Is this the logistics you were supposed to continue?! If this is logistics, tell him health in such logistics. Of course, the Bulgarian nation gave its assessment of this governance and the management of the crisis that ruled this government and removed them from power. I hope for a long time. Now, in terms of what needs to be done. Your plan concerns many parties to the measures that can be taken. Dr. Simidchiev must still be here. Dr. Simidchiev, it is an extremely risky activity to establish an operational plan for infection in law. Let's talk like doctors. Here many of the colleagues are interested in the discussion now, but do not understand what this is about. Infections are different by their characteristics, by their course, by their virulence, by their consistency. The law is a common way of doing things. And in medicine, believe me, there are rules, there are guidelines, but there are no laws. No, Dr. Simidchiev. So seriously think about whether you will submit such a bill and we will take it very seriously in the possible Health Commission. But there are a few things, Dr. Katsarov, that should be seriously reviewed in your plan, and they were said here by a colleague from "There is such a people." I have carefully examined the beds by districts, and if we now enter into the details of the discussion or sum up the beds in the periodic levels of zones "red, yellow and so on, you will see that the beds you have provided, as targeted in the specified areas, they do not reach at all. It's not enough, Dr. Katsarov. And what your colleague at IHN told you, I regret that I am saying the acronym, this is not disrespectful to the party.There is such a people, there is reason because of the sudden and late reprofilment. Therefore, in our address to you it has been said that echeloning is very important. The formation of patient flow when increasing the disease from a horse is the most important process in order not to overload the system. And that's what your colleagues from.. There is such a people...................... there is such a people....... Otherwise, it will start blocking the system again here they said from the smallest hospitals and I am worried about the biggest ones. Because they stop in practice the strategic process of treatment of socially significant diseases, what Bulgaria suffered, and the mortality, I repeat, the mortality is not of a species. Let's make a deal! Mortality, which has increased devastatingly, is one of the socially significant diseases. Look at the numbers and very quickly any person who understands statistics will navigate. That is, in this direction on the Plan, it should be worked out, it should be carefully adapted, and here yesterday we talked about a very important issue which was mentioned, I will only repeat it. The way of splitting into a hospital unit, in a hospital building in the two streams of patients. This must now be realized, now it must be planned, because if you need to, if you raise the wave level really in a non-imbullatory, and in clinical terms, this separation that happened with mushami, with curtains, it is unthinkable for this infection. It is also what your colleague told you here very well that when a doctor comes in, he, however he changes, he becomes a contagious person, Dr. Katsarov, and you know it very well. [[Heckling]] No, no, I don't want the things I've seen in hospitals, I don't feel like the whole Bulgarian people are looking at us. But the next thing that is next is what to do is ultimately, so that I am not here with a lot of words. Nearly 3.30 hours, four hours listen to us citizens in Bulgaria, but have already been bored with our discussions, to learn the serious lessons from this disastrous global and Bulgarian crisis. You told about a part of them to hear it here, those who for 12 years managed us that our health system is completely unprepared for any crisis.................. whether it will be from a virus, whether it will be another type of health crisis, it is unprepared. It was abandoned, several large hospitals were painted, which were displayed on national media, everything else I am ashamed to think about what I found in municipal hospitals, in district hospitals, such as domestic conditions, technology base, it is a shame for Bulgarian healthcare, which has more than 130 years of tradition. But on another matter here, you will allow me at the end of your address on behalf of our parliamentary group to strongly disagree with you. It's a matter of philosophical vision. Dr. Katsarov, healthcare is part of national security! The state can't back away from Yota from health care, Dr. Katsarov! It must remain in it, it must restore statehood to this health care. Otherwise, the Bulgarian nation is finished. People will leave us, leave the country. They are afraid of two things that they do not have real healthcare and that they do not have real education. That is what our party is fighting for, that is what we want, and I hope we will achieve it. Thank you, Madam President. [[Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, and applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u325	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u326	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, if anyone needs to make a summary of my speech, I would like to say the three words to make a summary: vaccines save lives. Vaccines save lives! In the world, Kovid is not a particularly dangerous infection, but this is the most dangerous infection that has killed more than 4 million people. No matter how safe it is for the last year. More than 18 thousand people died in Bulgaria alone because of this infection, which is not particularly dangerous. We have the means to drastically reduce this with a vaccine because vaccines save lives. In terms of how the health system should be managed, the Democratic Bulgaria has a sustainable vision of what needs to be done and this is not about strengthening a certain plan in the law, but about strengthening the planning in the law, because there is no good plan, there is good planning. Any plan made at some point, next thing you know, it might not be a good plan anymore. But the planning process must be legally fixed so that there are no free writings that do not enjoy the functioning of our nation's system and health. That's why we're gonna work on planning in health care. We will legally strengthen with your help as long as you support such an idea to have planning in healthcare, not a specific plan. The specific plan arises and it is the result of the action of the executive power. However, parliament must give such an opportunity to do so in our country. Because we didn't do this in Bulgaria for a long time. We had separate ministers for a long time, and at this post, the Minister of Health for the past 30 years, do you know how many have come out? There was a joke about St. George's long tail. Sunday. The reason for this is not that we have poor or quality ministers, but that the system crushes them very quickly because the system does not work planically. "Democratic Bulgaria" will help this system to work planary, structured, predictable so that, when we have the Plan, we can calculate how much money we need if there is such a new wave, and if there is not, accordingly, we know what to do. Regarding what we should do with the vaccination campaign, certainly the main problem came up very early in the pandemic process and this was a process of fragmentation of public opinion by public speaking to people with different beliefs and with different facts. We all have the right to our own opinion, but not all of us have the right to our own facts. When we talk about these issues, especially publicly, we need to know that this is responsible for public health, and when we speak from such a high tribune, we directly influence public health. Therefore, speaking from such a tribune should be done with facts, clear facts, and not with personal opinions. I therefore call on all my fellow Members: let us work with facts and data that we can interpret in one way or another, but the facts are published data that cannot be contested. Even for the statement about what and how much the vaccine had a register, everyone is obliged to submit data in this register. In this regard, I would like to call everyone in this House and everyone listening. We have something to do with health care. In healthcare, we cannot function on mandates. Health has a horizon of at least 10 and if not more years. Health is one of the very few areas that requires a very serious consensus. Without a consensus in healthcare, we cannot move forward, and there can be a consensus as long as we talk. We're in Parliament! The foundation of the word "parliament" is speaking. We need to talk to each other in order to reach a consensus in healthcare. Other areas can be politicized. In today's discussion, I initially heard polar opinions about ours, yours. We got into the heart of health care, there wasn't one of ours, and there wasn't one of ours. And finally, when we started discussing, we started again on our own and we started on our own. People, healthcare requires consensus, let us work together health care to move forward so that people can be healthier, more workable. That's where the economy and everything will start. [[Applause from IBBNI, ICN, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u327	We've been saying that for 10 years!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u328	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u329	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, correctness suggests that we welcome today's discussion and thanks. I will not exit today's discussion, the occasion and the subject of the hearing, namely what is the situation and preparation, how we would welcome a possible next wave of Kovid. In this respect, thanks for what the Ministry is doing, and the Office of the Ministry, in terms of preparation and what is to be realized, to be welcomed in the best possible way a wave which, for God's sake, does not happen for the second time. In view of what Dr. Ademov and I have asked as questions, it is appropriate to say that it is good that there are provided funds, at least 500 million. BGN, as you said, Mr. Minister. With regard to the question that Dr. Ademov asked about the clinical pathways, yes, the real factual situation is as you, Mr. Minister, pointed out. But there must also be an active dialogue with the word organizations, with the National Health Insurance Fund, there is a need for such a clinical path and more in view of the consequences. I would move on to the part about the information campaign that you agreed wasn't enough. Since the results of the vaccination level are what they are at the moment, then something is wrong and something has not reached people, and it has to reach, as we have already said, as with the positives we expect, it is a responsibility to both ourselves and to the society and to the people we live with and contact. This vaccination should also continue the information campaign. But it is also appropriate to say the possible consequences... was negative because there are such negative cases. You answered Mr. Todor Yordanov here about filing such cases. And to me, as a doctor, there is a case of a nurse, I will no longer specify, which has neurological complications. In our legislation and in the activities of the NHIF, it is not settled in such cases who is taking over the treatment. They are treating themselves, and I would like to address you for this and for such cases to be taken measures, because it is right and correct for the state not to really abdicate, but in view of the situation and in the future to be taken and treated. However, it must be arranged and this activity should be carried out in accordance with the legislative base in our country. In view of the preparation that you said is envisaged, and what is done will be upgraded, even more by using the Operational Program "Regional Development" for completion with a building fund, with equipment, all of this is good. But we have another very serious concern about the footage, because we have seen, and I have been approached, on the one hand, as well as helping to treat the sick, and so has medical staff. I will not agree with Professor Mihailov here. I do not see him at the moment in the Chamber that our system is not ready at all. On the contrary, the people who work on the health care fund, the medics and the medical staff did wonders and showed heroism. There are also victims in this regard, doctors, nurses and all medical personnel should be mentioned correctly. We should thank them. I offer thanks to colleagues who work, are ready and will continue to work. The security with the staff of doctors, nurses and other staff, you know very well that it is at critical level. I have addressed you not, but to your previous fellow ministers, who were ministers of health, to do a strategic analysis of the personnel resource, of the potential of doctors resident in different directions. This analysis never got it, and I think it's right. Because this is a really very important element of national security to be made such an analysis and to have planning, Dr. Simidchiev, so that in the future we can secure ourselves with footage that we can develop, but also keep them in our country, and not ready personnel to specialize and complete a state order with languages and go to work in Europe. I think it is not correct and we need to see exactly what should be done in the Law, to have changes so that these people fulfill their commitments for a certain time horizon in Bulgaria. You also addressed the issue of specializations. I believe that this step has not been carried out to the end and that we can be consulted on behalf of our parliamentary group. We have pleaded and asked many questions about the process of specializations, and it is not settled definitively. There should be paid special attention and there should be a clear policy, a clear vision, and not as at the last moment happened to be additional numbers for infectiouss, for anesthesiologists, reanimators and so on, for these specialties, which were specifically necessary for the healing process in view of the crown case. There is no way we are not going to come out of the theme today, supporting you for what you said about reforms and what colleagues and Dr. Simidchiev called for. Dr. Simidchiev, I would like to say that from this high tribune you can refer to how many times from the DPS we have called for a non-partisan political consensus to carry out this necessary reform, which is constantly being talked about, but there is no political will. We must all have the political will to make this reform happen. I welcome Minister Katsarov for this, although for a short period, that he also raised this question and we see that he has, to a large extent, a vision as we from the DPS have proposed, but that is not the point. Perhaps we have had an objective approach and assessment of the needs and what needs to be done as a reform. For so long we have had a decision from the 44th National Assembly to complete and shape the overall electronic information system in healthcare and there is a solution, there is an act of the National Assembly to make this happen with a time horizon of two years. This never happened, and the explanation is with public procurement and so on, and this is an extremely important element because this will increase control and know where the resource is directed, redirected and many things need to be done. This is one of the elements. The disproportion that you are talking about, Mr. Minister, in relation to hospital, hospital care must be at the expense of hospital care. Each time the budget is being examined, as well as the relevant areas, we have proposed that this proportion be adjusted so that the burden is carried out in the hospital aid, because there will be much more efficiency in the work of the healthcare system, much more rationally the financial resource will be used and there will be greater prevention, prevention, as in the countries where the healthcare system operates in a more normal way. Indeed, I call for a non-partisan political consensus and to have the will to change legislation so that these reforms can finally be implemented. It may not be within the limits of this mandate alone and for the next term there may be. On our part, on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group, we are ready for such a consensus approach so that there are health reforms. There is a great need for this. Our health care has good traditions, they can be upgraded. We have excellent specialists and medical staff, but the necessary analysis needs to be carried out and the personnel health care system is ensured, and I believe that its functioning could be one of the best, as there have been periods, in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. And stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u331	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister of Health, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your professional attitude on the issue, on the completeness of the country's preparation plan for dealing with the upcoming wool in autumn, and I also congratulate you on the real assessment you have made of the state of the health system at the moment. In this plan, you provide sufficient comprehensive answers to some of the important questions regarding actual readiness, not only on paper, the regions and the Bulgarian hospitals with regard to the available operating equipment in each hospital, on the bed base and its distribution, as regards the creation of a single information system for regulating the communication between the CSM and the emergency rooms so that no patient is required to remain at the entrance of the medical establishment. A lot of proposals have been tabled by other MPs for adjustments that deserve, of course, to be discussed. The CIVID-19 crisis has faced a global challenge because it has put to the test the health systems of each country, including ours, and each system has proved unprepared to one degree or another. Appropriate measures and decisions had to be taken very quickly in order to draw up a concrete plan, and let us not be fooled that there was none at all. For the success or failure of the current policy on dealing with the second and third wave of COVID-19, we can discuss several indicators of a purely medical nature. The first is that we actually achieved the highest mortality rate at the end of 2020. The highest intensity of deaths coincides again with the two waves, namely at the end of December, the second and third, when we reach 36, and in March, when we reach 30. This coincidence with the two hair waves is no coincidence. Here I will agree with my colleague that these deaths are not really just from a horse. With a large percentage, deaths from socially significant diseases have increased - one preventable death. 78% of all these deaths were actually over the age of 60 and up to 89 years. What was the situation? From the very beginning of the pandemic, there was no clear and definite plan. The measures that were taken were chaotic, the measures were taken after events already taking place, and they did not rest on preliminary epidemiological forecasts. Often in these measures there was a political attitude that was unacceptable. It was not based on medical arguments, and often responsibility was also given to regional health services, and that was the case in my city. In Kyustendil in mid-February, our health system was extremely burdened, the cases were growing rapidly every next day, and the Regional Health Inspection took the decision to wear masks in the open air, which was mandatory until 7 March, while at the same time at the national level from 1 March opened the restaurants. It's a paradox. It turns out you can walk in the park, but you have to wear a mask, and the next thing you know, you can sit down and have lunch in the nearest place and take off your mask because... [[Reply: "Angelov" introduced them!]] Okay, I'll complete in that case. Thank you. Yeah, he introduced them, and that's why it was a paradox. This paradox of devoid of any logic measures has derailed the entire population and, in fact, people have lost confidence in the institutions and in the efforts of power to deal with the health crisis at the moment. I'm not going into any further details about what was going on in district hospitals. We will only talk about the insurance with medical equipment, which in most cases is significantly depreciated. At the stage where it was claimed that we had everything we needed, we actually had a single portable oxygen bottle that had to serve the patients of the entire hospital. It is good that neither of us had to decide which real patient to take advantage of it at the right time, because making such a decision would be completely morally impossible. And yes, at one point hospitals were really provided with the necessary means, with the necessary equipment, with the necessary disinfectants, even, but not because of the state-led policy. No! We bought our own disinfectants, part of the protective clothing, relied on the patients and citizens to raise money to buy the respiratory system we needed, and the hospital director was constantly and continuously on duty in the E.R. and in the coffin ward. That wasn't dealing, that was a compromise. In summary: what is the end result so far in the battle that Bulgaria is fighting with COVID-19? We take 21st place in the incidence of horse sickness and at the same time we are 3rd place in the mortality rate and 1st place in the mortality rate of COVID-19. I sincerely believe and hope that when work is done professionally, when the experts' opinion is taken into account and a plan has already been developed with an option for corrections, we will indeed be able to meet the possible next wave of wool more prepared, truly prepared and stronger. In connection with vaccination. The lack of an explanatory campaign from the very beginning and allowing rumors and misinformation, the compromise of a vaccine completely undeserved, which has been elected by the government anyway, all affected people's attitudes and all this led to a tide of the desire for vaccination. Now on the threshold of the forthcoming fourth wave of horse in autumn, we are faced with the difficult task of being able to restore people's trust in the institutions and professionalism to those working in parliament and in the health system, and this can only be done in the strict follow-up of the prepared plan and broad information campaign. I believe that if we put aside at least for a little bit our political attitudes in the background and put our efforts in a common direction, our ultimate goal.. namely, a reform of our health system that will make it the way we see it in our dreams, this can be a real attainable goal. Thank you. [[Applause from IBGNI, DB and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-28.u332	Thank you, and that concludes the hearing for today. Thank you, Mr. Katsarov. We're done with the point, we're done with today's agenda. The next plenary session is tomorrow at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
