ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode. Mrs. Angelkova, hello! I'm also registering you. Mrs. Angelkova will participate in the meeting remotely.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u2	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u3	We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. One hundred twenty-three MPs are registered in the hall plus one remote turn to 124. The necessary quorum for decision-making today is 63 MPs. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I make two proposals for inclusion of points in the Weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: First vote on the Draft for Supplement to the Road Traffic Act. Importers: Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021, which I propose to include as first in the Programme for today, 19 February 2021. Mr. Tzipov, do you have a procedure? I see you've prepared yourself with the map in your hand. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u4	Thank you, Madam President. In connection with the forthcoming vote, I ask for a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u5	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u6	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] Procedure. Mr. Ivanov, let's hear your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u7	Madam President, honourable Members! In relation to the written proposal made by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 113 to be called...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u8	Mr. Ivanov, I'm sorry. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] I'm interrupting because I said I'd offer two points and now we're voting the first point, and then we're gonna... Listen to what I have to say in a moment. What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u9	My procedure is to really include this item on the agenda and to be supported...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u10	I'm gonna take your word for it, because right now, I don't... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] I told you we had two suggestions. Wait for the first vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Your proposal for the agenda will also be proposed for voting. Mr. Ivanov, hold on. [[Noise and lines.]] We're starting a roll call. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- here Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- here Anton Konstantinov Kutev- here Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva- here Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Горги Александров Александров- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- here Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- here Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Cristina Maximova Sidorova- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Krastina Nikolova Taskova- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova (through an internet platform) for video conference) - here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Mikhaylov Savov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here We have a quorum. We're continuing the hearing. I put to the vote the proposal for inclusion in today's programme: First vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Road Traffic Act. Importers: Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021, suggesting to be point one. Vote 159 MPs: 143, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. I suggest, on the same grounds, that it be included as a item on the agenda: Hearing on grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 February 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u11	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u12	There is no procedure, Mr. Ivanov, because the proposal is mine and you have nothing to justify. Do you have a counteroffer? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, tell me: what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u13	First, turn on the microphone. Call Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and Mrs Fandakova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u14	Mr. Ivanov, please don't break the rules again. I will put this proposal to the vote. I will put to the vote one more time: a hearing on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and of the Mayor of Sofia Municipality Yordanka Fandakova in connection with the incident with the electrocuted youth, in front of the University Hospital Ivan Rilski. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov.]] I call on all Members of the National Assembly to vote on conscience. [[Noise and lines.]] I cannot call on anyone to vote as they want. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Vote 166 MPs: 59 against 90 abstention 17. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u15	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u16	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u17	[[Speaks of off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u18	Hold on, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps we should write in the Rules that when a representative of the BSP comes out, the microphones are switched off and when you hear what he says you turn them on. Madam President, I, first of all, would like to congratulate you today that you have placed on your behalf the request that the Prime Minister and Mayor Fandakova come to the Chamber for which I congratulate you! And I'm surprised that the entire parliamentary group boycotted you! And now that we have brought in the proper order, I ask you to submit our proposal, and I hope that our colleagues will...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u20	This is your proposal, Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u21	You said it was yours. Ours is written and please read it. If you want, I can read it and put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u22	You want a re-election procedure right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u23	No, I want a vote procedure on our proposal. Your proposal the parliamentary group of GERB boycotted you and said that the President basically... I'm stopping here so you don't shut down my microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u24	No, I'm not gonna stop your microphone. Read these rules, Mr. Svilensky. Your proposal I can, on Thursdays and Fridays, in special cases, bring a change to the agenda. The proposal is yours for a hearing, but the proposal to include your hearing on the agenda of the Programme and to look into the Chamber is mine. So I am strictly following the Rules of Procedure which I have put to the vote, and now I am going to put your proposal to a re-vote. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u25	You had to re-vote first, then procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I would like to ask you and all my colleagues on the left side of the Chamber to read art. 53, para. 3, where it writes, you will actually read it, but there it is very clearly said that once the previous day has been voted, it must be one month to have the right to reschedule. So...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u27	It's about the laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u28	No, please read! That's why I'm addressing you, Madam President, so let's keep exactly par. 3. I ask very much that the Rules be observed. Actually, it's my procedure. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I am re-voting the proposal of the BSP parliamentary group for a hearing of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and the mayor of Sofia Mrs. Fandakova, which I am doing for inclusion on their agenda, because it is by the rules. Vote 173 MPs: 69, against 92, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 10 February 2021 to 16 February 2021: A bill to supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer "Krasimir Tsipov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also assigned to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill for word organizations and the professional activity of psychologists. Importer Daniela Daritkova and group of MPs. It's been assigned to the Health Committee. A bill to amend and supplement the Forest Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food, to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Financial Inspection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Messages: In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received a Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Central Election Commission on 31 December 2020. The report was submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the Legal Affairs Committee and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 10 February 2021, the National Assembly of the Court of Auditors received a List of the final audit reports sent in January 2021 to the audited sites for financial audits carried out by the Court of Auditors published on its website. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information on: R & D indexes in the section of the R & D &amp; D Section in December 2020; Industrial Production Indexes in December 2020; Construction Production Indexes in December 2020; Employees and Average Gross Salary in the fourth quarter of 2020; Employees and Average Gross Salary in the fourth quarter of 2020; Inflation and Consumer Price Indexes in January 2021. supposed data; main results of labour force monitoring in the fourth quarter of 2020; gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2020. Express assessments. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that a joint Bulgarian-British preparation between the formations of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the special operations forces of Great Britain will take place in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from 22 February to 5 March 2021. The preparation will be attended by soldiers from the Bulgarian country and soldiers from the special forces of the UK with weapons and equipment. The preparation is not related to the conduct of military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military action led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 18 February 2021 by IC. No 103-09-7 and granted to the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u30	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u31	Mr. Svilensky, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u32	Are the microphones on? Thank you, Madam President. Don't worry, we won't call Mr. Borisov. Please leave us the two minutes to talk them out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u33	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u34	Mrs. Chairman! Yesterday on the national air the chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB Mrs Daritkova said that all questions and questions put by the parliamentary group of GERB, addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, are unconstitutional and contrary to the regulations. Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u35	Is this a declaration on behalf of a group or a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u36	It's a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u37	Oh, the way you run it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u38	The National Representatives shall address to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or to a Minister issues of an up-to-date nature which are of public interest and shall be in their portfolio of management or affect the activities of their administration. The Prime Minister is asked questions concerning the government's activities. This is the Rules, Madam President, which we discuss every day in this state a law which is subject to the Constitution of the State. On the basis of these Rules and the Constitution of the State, the MPs from the BSP parliamentary group during the last four-year term have raised 25 questions and 35 questions. Of these 24 questions have been returned and 20 questions have been returned, Madam President. Questions and questions related to: Government policy on Homeland Security are returned to Mr. Borisov; Government policy in the complex episootic situation in the country; Government policy on national security in the context of the global geopolitical crisis....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And we come to the important topics, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u39	Time, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u40	Yeah. Question concerning the activities of the State Agency "National Security."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u41	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u42	One second.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u43	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u44	Wait 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u45	I understand what you have to say. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u46	Madam President, I will also tell you the following: the government's policy on vaccinations against COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u47	Thank you. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u48	Sorry, this is Mr. Svilensky speaking for two and a half minutes. I was extremely tolerant.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u49	Thank you, Madam President, then take them away from me for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u50	Come on, get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u51	Get to the point. Madam President, you are a pillar of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and you must not allow these things to be returned, first of all, to be returned to the questions and questions of the opposition, because they directly concern the management of the state and there is no way that issues which concern the management of the state to be unconstitutional should be against the regulations put forward by the Chair of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u52	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u53	Heavyó of the next parliament, if... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u54	Here's what you had to say for three minutes. I've answered that question many times, Mr. Svilensky. Most of the questions that have been returned, your colleagues have not taken advantage of art. 107, where they may protest before the Conference of Presidents. The questions that have been returned have been unaddressed and left unanswered at all because your colleagues have not re-addressed them, which means they have no interest in these issues at all, but rather only to keep some statistics that are asking questions to the Prime Minister so that this statistic of yours can swell. That was procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u55	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u56	Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, in the manner of conduct. I will try to give you accurate statistics on all issues as numbers and how many, I think, over 15 questions, are not at all re-addressed to other ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u57	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. President, in the manner of conduct. It's embarrassing! Do you understand? There's no common sense in this country that doesn't understand you're covering for the Prime Minister! This is your right, but it is our duty as Parliament to control the executive power and you are preventing the MPs from doing their job. Thirty-five questions, 25 questions, none of them within his competence?! This is absolutely unacceptable! And you continue yesterday on behalf of your parliamentary group through your chairman, and today from the highest tribune to take everyone here and the Bulgarian citizens for... What do you take them for? What do you think you're doing? There is a Constitution, there is a parliament, the parliament controls the government, the government is headed by the prime minister, the prime minister is accountable to the parliament, what don't you understand? And why do you keep talking to us like that? At least be honest and say: we, while in power, our goal is to keep Boyko Borisov out of the loop! Say it! At least be honest with the citizens! But you don't have that either, you don't even have the valor to protect him. Shame and shame! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u58	Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE MOVE LAW IN THE ROADS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 8 February 2021. First reading report of the Committee on Homeland Security and Public Order. Welcome, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a draft law supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 154-01-15, submitted by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021. At its regular meeting held on 17 February 2021, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft for Supplement to the Road Traffic Act No 154-01-15, submitted by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021. The meeting was attended by: Diana Kovacheva The draft and the reasons for the bill were presented by the National Representative Krasimir Tzipov, who informed the members of the Commission that the bill aims to solve problems related to the termination of the registration of road vehicles whose property was changed before the entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act for which the acquirer has failed to fulfil its obligation to register the vehicle in its own name. In the event of an unscrupulous buyer, there is no legal order in these cases in which the seller shall defend his or her rights by reflecting the change of ownership in the registers of motor vehicles and ending the registration of the vehicle. There are even cases where Bulgarian citizens are convicted of crimes committed by road vehicles whose current owners have failed to fulfil their obligation to change the registration of the already registered road vehicle. Legally in the Republic of Bulgaria the problem has been solved with amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act adopted in December 2017 and with amendments to Regulation No I-45 of 24 March 2000 on registration, reporting, suspension and entry, suspension, suspension and restoration of registration of motor vehicles and trailers withdrawn from them and the order for providing data on registered road vehicles. Those changes provide that the ownership of a registered vehicle to a person without a permanent address or an address registration in the Republic of Bulgaria is to be transferred to a person without a permanent address or registration in the Republic of Bulgaria upon termination of the registration of the vehicle and the return of the registration plates with a registration number to the relevant road vehicle registration service, and that the registration of a registered road vehicle to an owner is to be terminated by official registration in the automated information system which, within two months of the acquisition, does not fulfil its obligation to register the vehicle. Following legal changes, in the event that an up-to-date reference on the ownership of the vehicle is requested by the authorities of another State, it could easily be established that persons attracted as defendants and defendants in criminal proceedings are not owners and do not exercise actual authority over the object. However, the amendment of the Law has effect in the future and does not cover the cases that have been welded. On the basis of the above, the project provides for legislative changes to enable persons who made the sale of road vehicles before 27 December 2017 to alert the authorities of the Ministry of Interior of Interior of the change in ownership, allowing for a change of ownership of a road vehicle at the request of the seller. The registration of a registered road vehicle whose ownership has been transferred before 27 December 2017 for which the acquirer has failed to comply with its obligation to register the acquired vehicle within the statutory period of acquisition will be deemed to be officially terminated after submission by the transferor to the department/sector of the road police at the relevant Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate of a copy of a document certifying the transfer. The transferor, at his request, will be issued with a certificate containing information on the date of the transfer of ownership and the date of the official termination of registration by the relevant Unit of Road Police. This creates an opportunity for the seller to defend his rights. Opinions in support of the bill said Mrs. Diana Kovacheva "Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria," as well as representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Deputy Director of the Directorate General of the National Police "Mr. Todor Grebenarov." On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of a Draft for Supplement to the Road Traffic Act No 154-01-15, submitted by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. I don't see any desire to make a statement. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 154-01-15, submitted by Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Tzipov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u61	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is based on art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be subjected to a second vote, because in the framework of the debate in the plenary there were no proposals and there was unanimous support for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u62	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. I'm voting on the procedure Mr. Tzipov did. They voted 119 MPs: 117, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u63	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act Paragraph one: In the "Transitional and final provisions" § 12b is created: § 12b. (1). The transferor of a registered road vehicle whose ownership has been transferred before 27 December 2017 for which the acquirer has failed to comply with its obligation to register the acquired vehicle within the statutory period of acquisition may, by 31 December 2023, provide a copy of a document certifying the transfer of the ownership of the vehicle to a department/sector within the respective Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. (2) In the cases under para. 1 after the submission of the copy of the document certifying the transfer of ownership, the registration of the road vehicle shall be stopped by service with an indication in the automated information system of the department/sector "Travel Police" at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. The automated information system shall record the termination of the registration and record the acquirer, number and/or date of the transfer of ownership document. (3) For the termination of the registration under para. 2 Department/sector "Travel Police" at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior shall issue to the transferor, at his request, a certificate containing information on the date of transfer of the ownership of the road vehicle and the date of service termination of registration. (4) The provisions of para. 1 " 3" shall also apply when the ownership of the road vehicle under para. 1 is transferred to a person who is not a Bulgarian citizen, or the contract is concluded outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u64	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and its single paragraph. They voted 121 MPs: 119, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Georgieva, please come for a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolivtsi.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Levski is that holy word without which we cannot be Bulgarians. There is no greater in our history, and there will be no greater in history. The hanging of Vasil Levski is an event of such magnitude that even today.. 148 years later, we are tingling in front of him. Levski is the emancipation of the great Bulgarian spirit, awakened after centuries of slavery, darkness, injustice and horror. A genius who, in 1872, wrote about a Democratic Republic, about freedom, equality and human dignity, a common human values with which the European Charter of Human Rights began. But today these values are in doubt. We live in a time of moral decay. We destroy our own spiritual foundations, as people and a nation, and we treat other people's ideas and directives, and we deny ourselves and our history. And so much we need at least a spark of the spirit of Levski, of his courage, irreconcilability and sacrifice of love for Bulgaria. If the Apostle were here today and looked at us, what would he say?! Will he smile with his blue eyes, or does he make eyebrows look questionary to us with: People??♪ Who else can say, I have dedicated myself to my fatherland to serve him to the death and to work by the will of the people! ♪ None of us! But the Apostle is here today and is repeating us from the heights of his immortality with all his work, labor, struggle, efforts and dreams: Love Bulgaria, fight for it, do not spare yourself and your powers for a day! If we really believed Levski's words, we wouldn't be indifferent to injustice. If we carried it in our hearts, we would love our country more. If we followed him, we would remember that the people's work is above all things and deeds are necessary, not words. If we believed him, we would fight every hour for Bulgaria. If Levski were in our souls and on our flag, he would say: "Holy and pure Republic." It is today that we should remember who we are, where we went, and where we are going. There is no future for a people without history because time is in us and we are in time. But not the time of false idols and values, but the time of heroes, in which the spirit of Levski will always dwell. Let us humbly bow our heads before the apostle's memory and remember him in our prayers, and in our souls we bow to his suffering and greatness! He lost only himself and won an entire nation. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u66	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Mr. Anastasov, please come for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear compatriots! Today we celebrate one of the most tragic dates in Bulgarian history, namely the tragic passing of the Apostle of Freedom Vassil Ivanov Kunchev. In these days of gratitude in my mind there have always been several verses of another great Bulgarian of the people's poet Ivan Vazov. Allow me to quote a very small part of them. It's the manastir that's too tight for my soul. When a man came here to repent, He must forget the sinful peace, to run away and seek peace. My conscience is talking to me today. This black robe I'm wearing on top, ♪ Don't make peace with me ♪ ♪ With these heavens ♪ And when he lifted up his voice in the temple To sing the hymn of God, to receive heaven, I think he listens to those who weep ♪ in this valley ♪ ♪ weeping ♪ ♪ life ♪ ♪ Unsufferable ♪ And my prayer is lost in smoke, And God was angry with his ear. of the holy song and heruviko. ... I think the man here in the world There's a neighbor, there's a brother, By whom by oath the monk refused, that a higher purpose God has shown us here, that not with that rasso and not with that beard I can get rid of some trouble. From the one who suffers; I think the canon He will make it hard to silence the stone; That my neighbor needs it not in prayer, and in counsel and aid when it staggers; I also think the shepherd is the same. With sheep living in heat and in rain And that my brothers endure him in fear, And I have nothing, and that it is sinful, And that it would be charno to leave it at that. This fence is quiet, from the world far away, and secretly say two or three words new ..to drag the heavy shackles. He said it and came out. ............................................... He went out to shine the brightest star of the Bulgarian starry sky. He went out to awaken the sense of national pride in his brothers and sisters and organized their thirst for national liberation. At one of the gatherings Levski says: "I will break down this regime, but I solemnly tell you that after that I will not become any. " On this occasion, years ago, the great Bulgarian historian and intellectual Professor Andrey Pantev said: "By property and bank accounts Levski today would be worthy of contempt by the successful thugs. " "Really disturbing doubts that the Apostle's name may resume that revival urge in the Bulgarians, which put first the common good and not personal realization. None of today's people want to experience the same sufferings and sacrifices from Levski's times. But they must remember that if we have the right to call it ours and ours, we need at least a fraction of that tolerance, selflessness and selflessness to be restored, even in part, in our modern behavior, and not only in our historical memory! We cannot just think of Levski on this day and at the same time reproach the descendants for not knowing anything about him, because most of the values and virtues that are in place today in our everyday life are in drastic contradiction with the ideas, ideals and sacrifice of the Apostle. That his portrait is in the rooms and offices of most statesmen today, and during the solemn fireworks are thundering salutes, it still does not make either the individual or the offspring adequate to his martyrdom. Levski cannot be just an icon or a test of patriotism. He should be a daily survey of the modern values and realizations of that great, started by Levski. We shouldn't link Levski to just our fight for national liberation. Levski also appeared as a great statesman. He planted his revolutionary committees there, in those places where the natural centers were born later in our country. He also left us the dream of a holy and pure republic! And today, 148 years later, we have no right not to ask ourselves the question: is our republic pure and holy? Is a pure and holy republic where corruption is discussed and condemned from Washington to Brussels?! Is it a pure and holy republic in which our educational system produces such a large percentage of functionally illiterate children, in times less illiterate than its grandparents?! Is the republic pure and holy where healthcare crashes not only because of the global pandemic, but much earlier, leaving whole groups of the population of fate geographically and financially?! Is a pure and holy republic that has allowed depraved proportions of social inequalities putting entire groups of people at risk for physical survival?! The surviving man is not a free man! His consciousness is shrunk only to his daily and simple needs! He's not a free man. Today, we can also ask ourselves: How many times have we betrayed the apostle, and how is the betrayal of 1872 comparable to subsequent betrayals?! Isn't it a betrayal of Levski, isn't it proportionate to betrayal of criminal privatization...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u68	There she is in the front row!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u69	...with corruption, with the failure of our justice system?! [[a line from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev]] [[Radio, GERB lines.]] Don't we betray the Apostle every time we violate the principles of the pure and holy republic?! Dear compatriots, let us today, on this day, each of us choose from the brightest and most beautiful stars of the Bulgarian sky and name it after the name of Levski, so that we may be able to discover from his ideas and from this light, united together, change the model of government and lay the foundations of the pure and holy republic! It's not a dream. It's a very recent reality. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. Declaration please, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! These days the media reported the visit of the MEP from DPS Ilhan Cucuk in Skopje.. as rapporteur for the progress of the RSM on the way to the European Union. Kucuk must submit a report to be voted on in the European Union Foreign Policy Committee. At a joint press conference with Prime Minister Zaev, the DPS envoy in the European Parliament said bilateral issues should be resolved in a bilateral format. The politicians are responsible for political decisions and the history should be left to historians. At the same press conference Mr. Zaev noted that DPS is the only party in Bulgaria that defends a more moderate course towards Skopje. These declarations of mutual love between the representatives of the Turkish ethnic party in Bulgaria and the successors of the Yugoslav communists in Skopje cannot stop the Bulgarian patriots from worrying in both countries! We ask ourselves: what does Cucuk's statement mean that bilateral issues should be resolved on a bilateral basis? Does this mean that the issue of the so-called Macedonian minority in Bulgaria, arranged on a bilateral basis, can be raised by Skopje within the European Union if it is not a condition in the accession process?! Does this mean that the RSM can raise the issue of the so-called Bulgarian fascist occupation during World War II within the European Union and seek compensation on this basis, referring to the Paris Peace Treaty of 1947?! Something that in the media in Skopje in recent months has been launched quite widely. Does this mean that the DPS is giving up the Declaration of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the enlargement of the European Union and the stabilisation and association process of the Republic of Northern Macedonia since 2019? How would the DPS respond from the party, which is declared nationally responsible, pro-European and even sometimes referred to as patriotic, while in practice serves foreign interests that have nothing to do with the Bulgarian national interests? The statement of the European envoy of the DPS practically torpedos the unity of the Bulgarian position and is dictated by foreign interests. This is an attempt to bury the effort of generations of Bulgarian Buddhists, revolutionaries and politicians in the last 143 years. "From Stefan Stambolov and Dr. Konstantin Stoilov to Damian Gruev and Gotse Delchev! Addressing the Macedonian issue, the DPS is entering deep waters. Bulgaria's position for the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union is clear and expressed in the Declaration of the National Assembly and the Framework Position of the Council of Ministers since 2019! Therefore, on the basis of these documents, we at IMRO will offer all political parties a Charter for Macedonia in order to reach national agreement. Bulgarian citizens need to know who protects national interests and who acts as the fifth column of foreign countries! To conclude, we at IMRO state that we do not want to argue with those who want to compromise on the Macedonian issue. Let them argue with Vasil Ivanov Kunchev! In the days of his death we will recall his legacy: "Our goal is to be completely free in our land, where the Bulgarian lives in Bulgaria, Thrace and Macedonia!" Let these Euro-oriented people argue with the Deacon! Long live Bulgaria! Bulgaria above all! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u72	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We continue with the second item of today's agenda. FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATIONAL ORGANIZATION AND PROFESSIONAL ACTION OF THE PSHIHOLOS. Mrs. Daritkova, would you like to introduce us to the Health Committee Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the Word Organization and Professional Activity of Psychologists No 154-01-14, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021. At an extraordinary meeting held on 17 February 2021, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft for the word organization and professional activity of psychologists No 154-01-14, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021. The meeting was attended by Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health; Senior Commissioner Daniela Nikolova, Director of the Institute of Psychology The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The legislation in force in the Republic of Bulgaria does not contain a framework for the professional activity of psychologists. There are no mandatory standards and guarantees for the quality implementation of psychological activities. There is no provision for a word organization of psychologists, nor is there a specific order for controlling and sanctioning infringements committed or admitted in the exercise of the profession. Dr. Daritkova noted that this Draft Law aims to lay the legal foundations of the psychological profession as a regulated profession, whose quality and good faith implementation is placed under the supervision of a word organization of psychologists. The Law aims to guarantee the rights of persons subject to psychological activities, the competent implementation of psychological activities and the rights and obligations of psychologists. The law aims to establish the legal basis of the professional organization of psychologists by regulating its functions and structure. Psychologists must be responsible for the quality and results of their professional activities, as well as compliance with the standards and Code of Ethics adopted by the Society. By validating standards for the implementation of psychological activities, detailed regulation on the necessary qualifications, equipment and manner of implementation of the activities in each professional field in psychology is established. The bill sets itself a task to solve one of the most ill and most important problems for society and the common sense of the quality of psychological activity. It lays down educational and qualification requirements in accordance with the nature of the psychological activity exercised by the specialist, thus distinguishing persons dealing with the so-called coaching, i.e. to train or influence other persons for the purpose of their possible improvement, but without having the relevant professional qualifications acquired at a higher school. The adoption of the Law is expected to result in a number of favourable results for the professional activities of psychologists. First of all, the detailed framework of the profession by defining psychological activities and introducing legal rules and implementing standards will contribute to improving the quality of the services provided. The establishment of a common register of capable psychologists will help to achieve publicity and transparency, and will facilitate the access of third parties to relevant and relevant information on the qualification of psychologists. The regulatory regulation of the professional organization of psychologists and its attachment as a word organization will increase its prestige and contribute to the professional integration of psychologists, on the one hand, and on the other, to the overall development of the profession according to established international standards. Dr. Daritkova informed the MPs that according to the Law, opinions have been received from the Society of Psychologists in the Republic of Bulgaria; section of the Development Psychology at the Society; Department of Psychology at the Institute for Study of Population and Man at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; Sofia University.St. Kliment Ohridski, Philosophical Faculty, PhD. Psychology.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. All these opinions are positive, without comments and express support for the Bill. Many stress the need to settle the legal level of the professional activity of psychologists, their rights and obligations, their membership in a public register, as well as to ensure that quality psychological services are obtained by established professional standards, thereby protecting consumers from non-professional actions and harmful psychological impacts. Satisfied with the fact that the Draft Law preserves and guarantees autonomy in the activities of academic psychologists by providing the signing of standards and regulation of this activity to professionals in the field in accordance with the self-management provided by the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the Development of the Academic Board. The opinion of the Ministry of Interior Academy supports the bill by making recommendations for editing. Ms. Daniela Nikolova presented the opinion of the Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior, expressing the principled support for the bill and the need for such a law, but pointed out that it should be refined after a broader discussion among the guild. In this regard, Ms. Nikolova pointed out that it is good to take into account the opinion of the National Security Agency, the Bureau of Protection of Threatened Persons of the Prosecutor General, the Customs Agency and also the specialists working in the private sector. On behalf of the Society of Psychologists in the Republic of Bulgaria, Professor Sava Jonev expressed on behalf of the Law. In response to a note made, he clarified that the draft law applies only to psychologists, with psychotherapists not within its scope. They themselves are not defined as psychologists and have their own organization "Bulgarian Association of Psychotherapy." The bill is consistent with the specifics of the psychological activity, which in different versions allows and requires different quality criteria. The proposed sectary organization of terms and structure of the Society of Psychologists allows each direction of psychological practice to develop and establish its own criteria and standards for implementation. Prof. Jonev explained that six separate sections have been developed, namely the section "General Psychology" ; the section "Psychology of Development" ; the section "Clinical Psychology" ; the section "Criminal and Medical Psychology" ; the section "Social, Political and Ethnic Psychology" and the section "Trudova and Organizational Psychology." Professor Jonev informed the members of the Commission that even now there is a register which is public and dates back to 2007. On a question raised by the National Representative Nighyar Jafer, Professor Sonya Karabelyova explained that the persons who obtained a Bachelor's degree are not entitled to diagnose and should continue their studies in Master's degree. Regarding persons who graduated from the Master's degree in psychology, but with a bachelor's degree not in psychology, she clarified that this is not a problem, as Master's programmes for such persons have a longer period of training and at a sufficiently high level to obtain the relevant qualification. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the draft for the word organization and the professional activity of psychologists No 154-01-14 submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. An importer's opinion? I won't. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The bill that is currently being proposed to us is another of the last six months, which is being introduced under technology that does not honor the National Assembly. Even in the discussion in the Commission it was seen that between the importer, who is a national representative and, of course, that he has the right to make and propose a bill, and the main institutions in the country in which this activity is realized, such as the Ministry of Interior and his Institute of Psychology, the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health has serious serious contradictions. I would not like, as there will be many speakers, to waste your time here in front of me is the opinion of both the Ministry of Interior and the Academy of the Ministry and the Ministry of Health. Quite rightly, in several main directions they refute entire passages of this bill and believe that it must return to be very thoughtful. Moreover, there has been a strange situation in the Commission itself. It's a single company, and that's a very... Ninety percent of you don't have to understand the problems of psychological help! It concerns many institutions, it has many overlapping levels, but also with too much specific. In practice, from what has been seen and in the Commission, everything aims to turn an organisation into an official one, which will, however, control in an absolute way, the exact word is an indecent way, not to say another which has greater citizenship and the right to practice. God forbid the imposition of punishment, even though it is denied here. There we heard Professor Jonev's zealous words about how all this was already thought out. Moreover, the Commission also talked about the fact that for one year now the company in question, which was only part of this large professional guild, which is a free profession, which is extremely important, I would like to say to my honourable colleagues here that during the pandemic 80% had climbed the needs of psychological consultations, 4 times the calls of the phones related to violence have increased sharply the number of divorces in the Republic of Bulgaria, and not only in Bulgaria. This is an extremely important sector and of social life that relates to the practical survival of the nation. His introduction here in such a primitive way into the hands of a company to declare itself the leader of all this free guild and to determine who will practice, who will not practice, not to mention that the Ministry of Interior quite rightly says that the work of psychologists in individual government institutions, such as the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Justice, is in line with the laws and regulations concerning the activities of these governmental organizations. This bill is practically vaguely duplicated and something else he... the right to qualification and, so to speak, the exercise of the profession to be determined by certain teaching institutions such as universities, departments with the giving of a corresponding level of diploma. How will a company determine by its membership, which will become compulsory, the right to exercise this profession? The last thing I want to say to my colleague Daritkova is that it is so complicated the relationship between the different stunts in this chain of psychological influences of a person that it is extremely rude, unprofessional, ridiculous to cut off that this is only the activity of psychologists, the other is, you see, the psychotherapists, the third of a third kind of specialist. All of this shows, and it was told by the Chief Commissioner as a representative of the Ministry of Interior that it represents an unsuccessful experience, there is no serious professional discussion... This is not the place in this room. Now, if you have decided again with the roller of the majority to impose it at this first reading, it will become certain. However, I would like to tell you that there is a petition going through the Administrative Court against your bill. Things aren't simple at all. They're not simple at all! People are extremely interested in such absurdity not to be allowed as law-making. Because, as a respected lawyer said here, the stupidities that are being created in this National Assembly are already being studied in the faculties as mistakes of the department. We should not, at the end of our mandate, gallopingly adopt a misguided bill after a misguided bill. This does not honor the 44th National Assembly. It doesn't make any sense, and that's what institutions tell you that you should be interacting with as their leaders are broadcast by you. The letter of the Ministry of Interior was signed by his principal and his arguments are very serious, part of which I quoted you. So I don't want to waste any more of the respectable audience's time. My proposal, my wish, is that you, as importers of this bill, should withdraw it so that it can really be carefully adjusted and be in favor of the nation when it is submitted after the relevant consultations and professional and public consultation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u76	- What's the line? I won't. Statements? We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Jaffer, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! To our attention is an important topic and the ambition of the importers of the problem is to regulate a problem that is very important with a socially significant dimensioning. A very broad part of the audience, including the competent audience, does not distinguish between psychology, psychotherapy and psychiatric aid, and this is understandable, it is understandable. We have comments on several things relating to the proposed changes. First of all, the legislation knows several laws about word organizations, with the most popular of them being: The Law on the Word Organization of the Bulgarian Medical Union, of the Bulgarian Dental Union, of pharmacists and so on. In recent years, there have been precedents with other so-called word laws. For us, it would be logical for the proposed changes to follow the logic of these word laws that govern the relationship in a given guild. Secondly, the important question remains what will be the educational requirements that will allow psychologists to be included in a register that will allow them to work. In the Health Commission we did not get a very clear answer to these questions because the proposed opinions had different positions and defended different positions. It should be explicitly stated that the diplomas for Master's degree for the different fields of applied psychology obtained after one year of training at a university cannot legitimize professional competence without the existence of a Bachelor's degree in psychology. This is the position of one of the important organizations of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, which teaches and works with psychologists. On the other hand, the various Master's degree programmes in practice give specialization in a specific applied area of psychology. They cannot replace the fundamental education in psychology, which gives the Bachelor's degree. By law, such short master's programs, for example, can graduate students whose basic higher education is different from psychology. I give you an example: a large number of people who have a Bachelor's degree in pedagogy because they had to have psychologists in schools, have an advanced degree in psychology and they were appointed as psychologists in educational institutions. What will happen to these people next? One question that you educators would most likely put in this room for a reason. Therefore, some of the opinions proposed to our attention defend the position that the draft law submitted to the National Assembly should be subject to wider discussion after legitimate organizational and academic structures. And here we come to the third important question that we think should be answered. Why is the form of MPs again preferred to import such important bills? Is it because it gives a short track for realization of ideas and bills, or is it simply avoided public discussion in the real sense of the word when a bill submitted by the Council of Ministers stands on the website of the Council of Ministers or the ministry concerned and is subject to real public discussion? In conclusion, given the importance of the subject, we believe that a similar bill should be given a chance, but the nonsense, the lack of technological time to refine the texts condemns the submitted Bill of Destiny, which will most likely be like the previous proposals of three or four years ago. We call for uniform calibration, i.e. uniform standards in terms of Bachelor's, Master's degree requirements, as well as specializations. It is not enough that the representatives of the group that offers the changes talk about six types of specializations or sections that they want to argue to work according to the themes. It is as if in the Law on the word organization of doctors, for example, to give the individual specialities in medicine the right to have responsible organizations - for example, the specialists in surgery, in endocrinology, in internal diseases, in pediatrics and so on. Therapy and interventions in the field of psychology and psychiatry are extremely serious. Therefore, associations dealing with this topic must work towards overcoming imbalances in the requirements of standards, as well as of speculations. The conclusion of this pandemic, in which we are still living, is that the need for psychological and psychiatric assistance will be strengthened because one of the main lesions is actually precisely in the field of the scope of these specialists. Therefore, the legislative base should be very carefully made. Unfortunately, I believe that the technological time of the 44th National Assembly will not allow such a public debate and clear all these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u78	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Kutev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear importers of the Bill, I am led by the understanding that with this bill you are trying to solve a public problem that obviously makes sense. That is, there is a problem and it must be solved, and I hope that the intentions with this bill are, in fact, precisely, to resolve certain unfinished things in legislation. One of the problems, as I understand it, after talking to a lot of psychologists over the past few days is that there are actually many people in this area who say that there is some really dangerous incompetence that could threaten, including human lives. I suppose part of what you want to do with the Bill is that, in any way, to create a structured organization that protects against incompetence, from people who cannot exercise this profession well enough and put another barrier. The problem with the Bill, in my opinion, is that if this was the goal, you are actually not doing this with it, because that you are currently giving the sector the opportunity to regulate in the hands of a non-governmental organisation that should have played the role of self-regulation of the sector, in no way alters the requirements for this incompetence, and it is actually not going to be able to combat it at least by virtue of this bill. In it you have written that the so-called expert committees, which consist, as far as I recall, of five members in different areas, i.e. these five members should give a document accordingly, allow the entry of a certain psychologist into the relevant register and his right to work. However, in the terms that you have written in the Bill, what should expert committees really do? Well, let's see if he meets the requirements. And what are the requirements? Yeah, well, he's got to have a degree. Where goes the possibility of regulating competence or incompetence? Perhaps there is something in that ethical committees could then possibly discuss any complaints with which complaints might be imposed by imprisonment there for a year, or something like that with you, in the rules?! But anyway, apart from giving the rights to self-regulation at the moment to one of the organizations, given that there are others and that a large, significant part of the psychologists do not participate in it, you simply do not, in my opinion, solve the main problem for which you are doing the Law. Here the problem would be easier to solve this problem if we took order in the state and made the degree as a psychiatrist, a psychologist to do and get it when you are guaranteed to have a result. Doesn't turn out to be the master's degree in psychology here without a bachelor's degree is a reason. I heard that Professor Some-Who told you it wasn't. Many other psychologists say it is. There may be other reasons why it turns out that some of the psychologists are actually incompetent. But in any case, if we arrange our education and put it in a way that we know that psychologists who graduate from a Master's degree can't come out, which are dangerous or harmful, we will achieve more results without this organization. Among other things, if you want to make a register that is mandatory for a profession, it is logical to do this to a state institution and not to make a state institution from a non-governmental organisation, because that is what you do. You're authorized to decide human destinies and you say, "You can't work." You can't. And now, it's impossible for this non-governmental organization not to actually lead us to the idea that the people who talked to you are obviously lobbying for one organization or another. At the very least, see now........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I've always been afraid of politics when someone says something's being done. What's done? How is the General Assembly organized? Obviously, someone is organizing it and individuals who want to become and have diplomas, i.e. legalize their kind of degree as psychologists, in order to be able to carry out this activity, somewhere they have to submit their documents. It doesn't say where. Obviously, the presumption is that they will submit them to the current NGOs, which you actually want to hold. The other thing is that it doesn't say that here. They should probably think of that. Not to mention that there is no responsibility in this text. What if this isn't created within three months, what about the Bill, the Guild and the incompetent psychologists? It's not a little nagging. This deficiency can probably be avoided between first and second readings by making some regulation in which it is clear where they are submitted. However, the point is that it very clearly shows that in fact all of this is done so that an organization can control the sector, and it is represented by certain people. That is, we, with this bill, are creating the clear conditions for several people to manage the sector. And I say again, because, you know, the order, as I understand it, is the expert committee that submitted to its board and it accordingly registered you on the list well. What can this expert committee do with the incompetent psychologists who have the relevant diploma? When they have a degree, these are required to register them. How do we regulate the sector? What are we really helping with the main problem that we are trying to solve? And that is why the colleagues who said that this should be postponed, to reconsider and to do it in another way, and not in haste at the end of the National Assembly, are, in my opinion, correct. Take your time! Nothing good is gonna come of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u80	Thank you. - What's the line? Are there any other speeches that we continue to make? Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As colleagues said in their speeches before mine, perhaps the intentions to submit such a bill were good because indeed this activity in Bulgaria is not regulated enough. But what is offered to us as a bill for discussion is not just a misdirection of good intentions, but if you go deeper into the texts, you will see that there are things that raise very serious doubts about the well-meaning of submitting this bill. I'm putting it this way so I don't say a stronger word. On February 17th, 13:00 p.m., a group of school psychologists, some of them, of course, failed to sign in time, this group is now much larger, to the President of the Health Commission in the National Assembly on the bill we are dealing with. Of course, there are deadlines that people do not know, but this opinion has not yet been uploaded to the National Assembly's website. I believe that, apart from the Committee on Health, this bill should also be dealt with in the Committee on Education and Science. I believe that those people who have signed this opinion, I assure you, very thorough and professionally done, are an important part of the guild, and it was right for their opinion to be heard. In this professional community, organized on an informal basis, there are members of the Society of Psychologists in Bulgaria, there are also such people who are not members of any organization, they support the need for the existence of the Law on the qualification and professional activity of psychologists, but they believe that it is unacceptable for such a law to be adopted without public consultation. Their concern, as well as mine, as a person who has worked at school for 27 years, and although it is not explicitly indicated for a person who is not interested professionally, perhaps this is not evident from first reading, but this bill would seriously affect practitioners in all spheres of public, private sector psychologists. It also relates to higher education for the acquisition of professional qualifications of psychologists with educational and qualification degrees and scientific degrees, as well as to their continuing professional development. With regard to public sector practitioners, for example, the system of pre-school and school education is even more specific, because at the time of the posts of In this organizational context of the position of the Pedagogical Advisor, or the Pedagogical Advisor, in the Pre-school and School Education Act and Ordinance No 15 on the Status and Professional Development of Pedagogical Professionals, in force from August 2019, the School and kindergarten Directors may appoint specialists who have an educational-qualification degree in psychology of the position of the Pedagogical Fellow, respectively "Bachelor" or "Master" in psychology, or both in a position of Pedagogical Advisor and specialists with an educational-qualification degree of Bachelor or Master in Psychology, pedagogy and social activities. If this bill is passed, becomes a law and enters into force in this form, it will mean that under a specialized law it will also have to be valid for the pre-school and school education system, which implies changes to the current Pre-school and School Education Act, Decree No 15 on the status and professional development of pedagogical specialists and the Ordinance on inclusive education, which directly concerns the activities of all schools and kindergartens. Accordingly, the standards on development psychology, published on the website of the Society of Psychologists in Bulgaria, provided for supplementing this bill, will apply logically without being explicitly written in text. In our proposed Bill incorrect and misleading in art. 7 is determined that the standards for psychological activity are mandatory for all persons engaged in psychological activities in the relevant professional field because they do not specify the professional directions and the relevant activities to them, as well as what are the standards for the relevant directions and professional activities of psychologists. It is also unclear whether and who are in conformity with the national qualification of professions and posts of January 2011 of the National Statistical Institute. In this case, this is misleading because these standards do not fit into the texts of the Bill proposed to us, so this can be interpreted as an opportunity for the Society of Psychologists in Bulgaria to change the standards by decision of the Governing Council and accordingly colleagues to be harmed. Furthermore, if there are directions that are not included in this qualification as professions, is the Society of Psychologists in Bulgaria planning to initiate a procedure for entering new positions in the national qualification of professions and positions? Dear colleagues, in psychology there are many directions, including many directions of applied psychology. As we know, there are clinical psychologists, labor, organizational, child psychologists, sports, aviation, social and so on. The sphere of professional realization is determined in relation to their qualifications and regulations of the relevant services, medical, educational, social and so on, if they are in the public sector, and according to this, the law on the Ministry of Interior applies respectively to the execution of penalties, i.e. prisons, military law, health law, education law and so on. In the private sector there is voluntary regulation for the moment, which hides its unpleasant countries for both workers and customers of such services. It is taken into account that unqualified persons or those who do not comply with ethical standards in the pursuit of the profession, spoken in conversational terms, and those without professional ethics, practice. The standards themselves, published on the website of the Society of Psychologists in Bulgaria, provide lobbying requirements that guide to certain Master's programs, universities and courses. They shall call into question the diplomas for completed education from accredited educational establishments as sufficient for one or another level or qualification which should be legitimate by law and give the qualifications and qualifications described by the universities which were scheduled during the acquisition of those diplomas. There are also paragraphs in the Bill which are parts of the Statute of the Bulgarian Society of Psychologists, which does not in any way change the status of this organization to another, but only expands the possibilities for the maintenance of the company itself, in this case not only from membership and other permitted activities, but also from fines and insurance fees or to introduce fees for examining documents, opinions and so on. This could lead to the self-sustaining of such members and subjective pursuit of uncomfortable in quotes colleagues. The status of such an organisation should be different, as well as its financing, because this could lead to a conflict of interest. In the bill submitted to us, as I have a time limit, I will only mark a few...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u82	Should we increase the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u83	Yeah, increase the time. There are some other misconceptions, such as in Chapter Three, art. 8 is pointed out that the Society of Psychologists in Bulgaria is a word organization, but is asked: which Constitution, who controls it? There is nothing mentioned in the law who regulates its activities, why is its name here unchanged and has the status of NGOs, and as a word organization with the old name? In Chapter 3, Art. 9 are not specified which competent authorities are involved. In Chapter 3, Art. 12 Fully duplicate the authorities that are mentioned with the current management bodies of the Society of Psychologists in Bulgaria, adding only expert committees. There is no National Quality Council by analogy from the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. In Chapter 4, Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 22 with the right to issue a penalty decree in quotes a non-governmental organisation with claims of a word organization shall appear as a judge. It is debatable here whether this is possible in relation to the current legislation in Bulgaria within the meaning of the Administrative-Processory Code. That is, if we look more closely, so even if we look at it, as a teacher I cannot refrain from commenting, in the numerous grammatical errors.......... this bill was clearly very hasty, perhaps bringing it into twelve to five, at the end of the work of this National Assembly, had something else to do with it. And I think I've said enough in my speech what this bill might be about. Unfortunately, the sincere desire of all practitioners of psychologists in Bulgaria to regulate their activities, with this thing offered to us as a bill, is not regulated. On the contrary, attempts are being made to arrange some individual, perhaps private interests, but this will not help in the activities of psychologists in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, I believe that we do not have time, as some of the speakers before me have said, to correct so deeply, because philosophy must be changed to this bill. For this reason, we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u84	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Timchev, come in for a statement. I don't see any other willing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I am not surprised that there are no speakers from the right half of this House, but as a member of the Health Committee, I would also like to express my opinion on the submitted bill. This is another bill which has been submitted according to the model GERB and on the fastest track to satisfy the interests of a certain part of a large word organization, a company. His fierce defenders were on the Health Committee. For example, Professor Sava Johnov, who is the chairman of this company, in his zealous defence of this bill, in which he personally and personally participated, would have won me if he had not said that: "Dear MPs, but we have been working on this for more than a year now. We've made our sections, and we've made a register, and we've got people lined up. You just have to vote on this bill five minutes before the end of this term?! I was in a state of this: I listen and I don't believe my eyes! This law, honourable MPs, will give us the opportunity to take a European certificate, which our company, after legalizing it as a mastite giving the rights of all psychologists in Bulgaria, will issue them a European quality certificate. And then, you see, universities we will force them to increase their qualifications, to improve their quality, to change their training programs. It is no coincidence that Bulgarian education is at this level, and it is no coincidence for me that this bill is not seen in the Committee on Education. Such a model in recent months of legislative activity in Bulgaria is being observed and we will definitely not support such lobbying bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u86	- What's the line? Any other speeches? Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that I am a graduate psychologist and I am not a member of the Society of Psychologists, for which the talkers have suspicion that it will be the successor of everything that has been reflected in this bill. The bill regulating the activity of psychologists regulates many important elements of the profession that equalize us with other European countries, such as certification, registration and public disclosure of the competence of each particular practitioner psychologist. Without this law, the field of psychology is a broken yard. The regulation not only brings the psychological profession closer to the more responsible, such as legal and medical, but also creates a mechanism for protecting consumers when they are not satisfied with the service. The bill provides for the establishment of a register of law-abiding psychologists and only a registered psychologist to be able to exercise his profession. In addition to being listed in the register in which the psychologists are currently 1100, he must be a member of the Society of Psychologists. Until now, the lack of law does not allow European policies and standards to be applied, which in individual areas of psychology are very advanced. The bill would really allow a company to join the European scientific and practical field of psychology, a psychologist could only be a person with higher education in this speciality and at least a Bachelor's degree, there would be standards for the implementation of the psychological activities carried out, which would be drawn up together with the Society of Psychologists and other institutions in the country concerned with psychology. There is currently no order to control and sanction violations. In Bulgaria there are many specialists who have not completed psychology, they do not have the necessary qualifications to engage intensively in the human psyche, and this certainly does harm to people. In recent years, the attitude towards psychology has changed. Psychology is a science that constantly develops and follows trends and changes in human personality, interaction and environment. It does not give recipes that are generally valid, but seeks the individual resource and unlocks opportunities according to the specifics of the personality. More and more people already understand what it is to use psychological support without putting them in any category of prejudices. Going to a psychologist, they do not simply go to state their problems, worries, questions, nor go to be reprimanded or condemned, the psychologist is the specialist who discovers along with the client the causes of the problem situation, condition, crisis. The two together draw the way out with specific tasks, changes, elections. The work lasts long even outside the office, because through psychological support one learns new, more productive strategies. From what has been said so far by the respected colleagues before me, it has become clear that the bill is in line with the specifics of the psychological activity which, in its various options, allows and requires different quality criteria. In line with the democratic traditions of modern times and the needs of words, the Bill stimulates the attraction and participation of a wide range of professionals in the self-regulation of the profession to bring their experience and knowledge into defining the most sustained standards that fit for each individual psychological direction. For the implementation of the bill after its adoption there is a developed, acting at the moment, we understood this, a sectary structure consisting of six sections, secured personnel with broadcast presidents and membership. Dear colleagues, the old normal no longer exists, and this is clearly affecting our psyche. Professor Mihailov said that more than 80% has increased the demand for mental assistance compared to the beginning of 2019, working for more sustainability in helping people, especially during the pandemic, with mental health consultations under the changed working conditions. Social networks are the new modern dependencies for young people. If we've talked about drug addiction in society recently, we can talk about cyber dependence today. There is a real dependence on virtual space, but it should not be forgotten that dependence manifests itself to fill another deficit in life. It is based on the change in biochemistry. On the web one can get excitement, expectations, confessions, and hence illusory acceptance, attention, everything. Very really virtually shakes off us adrenaline, dopamine, then we look for everything over and over again, because the actions that give it to us are actually very simple? just one click and a little click on the keyboard. This addiction is more difficult to understand than gambling addiction, alcohol, drugs, the difficulty of the mass of addiction and it is not overcome without the intervention of a specialist. Current today is also the question: does the virtual space between children and parents create a gap? The gap is not only caused by virtual space, it is in the values that have been changed in depth in recent years. Today's children are very different from children 30 years ago, even 20 years ago, so many behavioral models are not working and parents need new, tailored to the individual characteristics and characteristics of their children. The difference between the new generation and that of our years is in times different. Parents find it difficult to navigate in this world, even experiencing discomfort from their disorganization, so they reject the place where children function and communicate. Children view their parents as misunderstandings and question their authority on this line. All this complements the arguments for the need for this bill. We are convinced that there is a very serious discussion ahead, and today in this House we are opening this discussion. The bill is only at first reading and we represent its philosophy. The public discussion is to be held and this bill will probably not be adopted at second reading in the term of office of this National Assembly. That is why I appeal: all those who have a bearing on the subject to make their proposals between first and second readings in order to avoid the shortcomings have been named part of them. With regard to why a group of MPs are importers, I ask which ministry should submit such a bill? Essential and serious proposals are likely to come from the very guild of psychologists. Yes, there are many critical opinions, but I have been communicating in these days with many psychologists who support the idea and are very awaiting this bill. It's all technology between first and second readings. I call on you to support the Bill at first reading and to actively participate in the proposals until it is adopted at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u88	Thank you. Are there lines? The line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Petrova, I thank you for your efforts for this extensive speech. I just can't understand at the end of my speech You say: "This bill will probably not see the light of day within the mandate of this National Assembly. " - Then what was the point of bringing it in, what was the point of talking about things, excuse my professional remark, doing analogies about the pathophysiology and physiology of man's thinking and his psyche through biochemistry is mildly incorrect. Furthermore, let's talk about Fathers and children on Turgenev how generations do not understand each other, this has nothing to do with this bill. This bill relates to a kind of activity, it is not, as you yourself said, put into serious public and professional discussion, it does not settle the problems, as said my esteemed MP Anton Kutev, of this profession, but deepens them, it pushes as in the fold all working within a company only in the present few. That is, all the technology here with which we are wasting the time of the honourable National Assembly for almost an hour is such that we have wasted the time of 100.. 200 MPs to listen to these things, we will finally pass it at first reading with your roller of the majority, and it will sink, like not a few other bills, and will remain, as we say slangonically of our parliamentary lexicon, of logs. It didn't make sense. That was also the purpose of our speeches and our arguments. There was no point in rushing for something that must undoubtedly be arranged, but not in the way it is being offered to us at the moment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u90	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Is there another line? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u91	Dear Mr. Mihailov, I may have said three times that we are beginning something that the community of psychologists in Bulgaria is expecting. We at GERB are launching a public discussion and I would like to ask you not to make suggestions from this tribune that the existing Society of Psychologists will be successor to this bill. The Society of Psychologists has expressed its position, understandably refers to much of the texts. Of course, there are many questions and many problems that will be cleared, and the bill will be implemented as such in the next term of the National Assembly, probably.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill on the word organization and professional activity of psychologists, No 154 01 14, tabled by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. They voted 93 MPs: 80 against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: PROJECT OF ANNUAL WORKING PROGRAM OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON EUROPEAN UNION'S QUESTIONS (2021) The Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2021) At its regular meeting held on 17 February 2021, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, on the basis of art. Chapter XI of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discussed and adopted the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2021. The draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs has been developed in accordance with the priorities set out in the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union Decision-making process in 2021, adopted by Decision No 58 of the Council of Ministers of 21 January 2021; the European Commission Work Programme for 2021, published on 19 October 2020, and the proposals made by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly. In accordance with art. 118, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union was submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2021. 118, para. 2, it is examined by 16 permanent parliamentary committees. According to bets in art. 118, para. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds should draw up a draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2021 by 26 February 2021. In its Work Programme for 2021, the European Commission proposes 86 new initiatives and 41 initiatives under the Regulatory Framework's Fitness and Effectiveness Programme (REFIT), in line with the six ambitious objectives set out in the political guidelines of President Ursula von der Lyon for the period 2019: 1. European Green Deal. 2. Economics in the interests of the people. 3. Prepped for the digital era of Europe. 4. Keeping our European way of life. 5. A stronger Europe on the world stage. 6. A new impetus for European democracy. The work programme of the European Commission was presented by Mr. Tsvetan Kulanov, acting Head of the Representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria, accompanied by Mr. Nikola Miladinov, Media Advisor of the Representation. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Petya Vasileva, Director of the Directorate of the European Union Coordination of the Administration of the Council of Ministers, as well as Mr. Vladimir Nedyalkov, Mrs. Kamelia Ivanova and Ms. Mariana Vasileva, State experts in the same Directorate. Taking into account the agenda of the European Commission and the programme of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Bulgaria plans to focus its efforts on several high priority areas for the country in 2021: - The European Green Deal; - Coping with the negative economic and social consequences of the pandemic caused by COVID-19; - Multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027; - The reform of the common agricultural policy; - Joining the Schengen area; - Enlargement of the European Union; - European Energy Union; - Promoting economic growth and employment; - Solid management of migration; - A single European digital market. The following considerations were also taken into account in the preparation of the draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2021: - Checks for compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality of the European legislative proposals included in the annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union matters 2021 will be carried out by actively exercising the powers of the National Assembly under Protocol No 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; - The adoption of the new work programme does not interrupt the monitoring and control process of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union included in the previous annual work programmes of the National Assembly on matters of the European Union which have not been examined or finally adopted; - The Annual Work Programme shall prioritise draft acts that are legislative and enable the National Assembly to effectively monitor the government's participation in the European agenda, as well as to participate in political dialogue with the European institutions; - If necessary to the current work programme, the committees of the National Assembly have the opportunity to examine other documents of the European institutions - messages, reports, white and green books, and others outside the current work programme; - It should be borne in mind that in relation to the powers of the national parliaments under art. 6 of Protocol No 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in the draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union matters 2021 does not include proposals made by the Standing Committees to include legislative initiatives under which the period laid down in Protocol No 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has expired or will expire before the adoption of the Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union matters for 2021. After the discussion the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds took place on the basis of art. 118, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose unanimously with 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the following decision for the adoption of the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2021: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 118, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopt the following Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2021) Subcutaneous or intravenous use ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON EUROPEAN UNION'S QUESTIONS (2021) The National Assembly shall be chaired by: - The contribution of the national parliaments to the good functioning of the Union, as established in art. 12 of the Treaty on European Union and their role in formulating European policies; - Compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the European legislative process; - The priorities set out in the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2021; - The need to strengthen the European Union's global role as a defender of democratic values and human rights, of sustainable social and environmental development; - The pursuit of active participation in the process of dealing with the negative social and economic consequences resulting from the pandemic caused by COVID-19; Decided to exercise his powers under art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by subjecting the procedure of parliamentary supervision and control of Chapter Eleven of Art. Art. 118 to art. 121 including the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following draft acts of the European institutions: In the thematic area of the European Green Pact Legislative initiatives 1. Review of the European Union emissions trading scheme ( ETS), including in the field of maritime and air transport and CORSIA, as well as a proposal for a European Union emissions trading scheme as own resource. 2. A carbon correction mechanism (CBAM) and a proposal for CBAM as own resource. 3. Regulation on the allocation of efforts. 4. Amendment to the Renewable Energy Directive in order to fulfil the ambition of the new climate objective for 2030 5. Amendment to the Energy Efficiency Directive to implement the ambition of the new climate objective by 2030 6. Review of the Regulation on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use changes and forestry. 7. Reduction of methane emissions in the energy sector. 8. Review of the Energy Products and Electricity Tax Directive. 9. Review of the Directive on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure. 10. Review of the Regulation setting standards for CO2 emissions from new passenger cars and new light commercial vehicles. 11. Review of the Directive on the energy performance of buildings. 12. Review of the third gas energy package in order to regulate competitive decarbonised gas markets.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u94	The directive jumped something?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u95	Yeah. I think she's clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u96	Say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u97	I repeat. 12. ..12. Review of the third gas energy package (Directive 2009/73/EU and Regulation (EU) No 715/2009/EU) with a view to regulating competitive decarbonised gas markets. 13. A policy initiative for sustainable products, including a revision of the Ecodesign Directive. 14. Minimising the risk of deforestation and degradation of forests related to products placed on the European Union market. 15. New legislation to restore ecosystem health. 16. Review of the Directive on Intelligent Transport Systems, including an initiative to issue multimodal transport tickets. 17. Review of the TEN-T Regulation. 18. Development of emission standards for cars, vans, trucks and buses for the period after Euro 6/VI standards. 19. Rail Corridor Initiative EU 2021, including a revision of the Rail Transport Corridors Regulation and actions to promote passenger rail transport. Non-legal initiatives Round electronics. Action plan for zero pollution of water, air and soil. Action plan for the development of organic production: on the way to 2030
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u98	Mr. Stoynev, tell us the numbering for the protocol, because after that, we don't have to rethink it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u99	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u100	That was 20, 21 and 22. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u101	Do I have to read it again, okay?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u102	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u103	In the thematic area of Europe prepared for the digital age Legislative initiatives 23. It's a data legislative act. 24. Review of the Database Directive. 25. Digital tax and a proposal for a digital tax as own resource. 26. Improving the working conditions of workers through platforms. 27. Follow-up to the White Paper on foreign subsidies: 27.1 Creating equal conditions of competition. 27.2 Public procurement. 28. New requirements for the design and rights of consumers in the field of electronics. Non-legal initiatives 29. Update the new industrial strategy for Europe. In the thematic area of the Economics in the interests of the people Legislative initiatives 30. Facility for protection and facilitation of investment. 31. Review of prudential rules for insurance and reinsurance undertakings (Solvency II). 32. Review of the Financial Instruments Markets Directive and Regulation. 33. Sustainable corporate governance. 34. Creating a European Union standard for green bonds. 35. To the future general scheme of preferences, the legal framework for providing commercial advantages to developing countries. 36. An instrument for deterring and countering forced action by third countries. 37. Review of the banking crisis management and deposit insurance arrangements. 38. Review of the Tobacco Tax Directive. 39. Amendment to the Directive on the general arrangements for excise duty. Non-legal initiatives 40. Communication on a new strategic framework for health and safety at work. 41. Action plan for the social economy. 42. Recommendation on a European guarantee for children. In a thematic area, a stronger Europe on the world stage Legislative initiatives 43. Consular Protection review of EU rules. Non-legal initiatives 44. A joint communication on strengthening the European Union's contribution to multilateral cooperation based on rules. 45. Joint communication on the Arctic. In a thematic area, "Encouraging our European way of life" Legislative initiatives 46. A legislative proposal to create a new European Agency for Biomedical Research and Development. 47. Proposal for a European area of health data. 48. Amendment to the Regulation establishing the Schengen Assessment Mechanism 49. Review of the Schengen Borders Code. 50. Digitalize visa procedures. 51. Legislation to effectively deal with sexual violence against children online. 52. Review of the Directive on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of criminal activity. 53. Proposal to modernise existing law enforcement cooperation within the European Union by establishing a European Union code for police cooperation. 54. Proposal for a directive on asset recovery services. 55. Individual tuition bills. Non-legal initiatives 56. A new European Union action plan against migrant smuggling. 57. A new voluntary return and reintegration strategy. 58. A strategy for the future of Schengen. 59. A European Union counter-terrorism programme: prevention, protection, response, prediction. In the thematic area, a new impetus for European democracy Legislative initiatives 60. Proposal to prevent and combat specific forms of gender-based violence. 61. An initiative to expand the list of European Union crimes to cover all forms of hate crime and hate speech. 62. Digital exchange of information in cross-border terrorism cases. 63. Co-operation platform for joint investigation teams. 64. Digitalisation of cross-border judicial cooperation. 65. Review of the status and financing of European political parties and European political foundations. 66. Greater transparency of paid political advertising. 67. Review of the Council Directive laying down the conditions and procedures for exercising the right to choose and be elected in elections to the European Parliament by citizens of the Union residing in a Member State of which they are not nationals. 68. Review of the Council Directive laying down the conditions and procedures for exercising the right to choose and be elected in municipal elections by citizens of the Union residing in a Member State of which they are not nationals. 69. Initiative against abuse of lawsuits against journalists and human rights defenders. Non-legal initiatives 70. Communication on the long-term vision for rural areas. 71. An EU strategy for the rights of the child. In the thematic area of the European Union budget 72. Initiatives related to the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u104	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u105	Thank you. Honourable Members, the National Assembly shall examine the draft annual work programme on European Union issues on the basis of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 118, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In essence, this programme is considered and adopted every year. It shall be drawn up on a basis and in accordance with the priorities set out in the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process for 2021 adopted by the Council of Ministers, the European Commission Work Programme for 2021 and the proposals submitted by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly. We will support the National Assembly's Annual Programme because in it we see priorities that are priorities and are part of the Program for the accelerated and catching up development of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. It is in the Annual Programme that are presented in thematic areas with legislative and non-legitimised initiatives "The European Green Pact', the Europe prepared for the digital age, the economy in the interests of the people, the stronger Europe on the world stage, the strengthening of the European way of life, the new impetus of European democracy. This programme will also be used by the next National Assembly. On its basis, the National Assembly will exercise its powers under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has had a principled and permanent position with regard to European topics in Parliament, and this time it will be so. In these four years, unfortunately, we are witnessing the disregard and non-public presentation of the positions and priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria. Under the Rules of Procedure on the basis of the Annual Programme in the decision-making process of the European Union, the six-month programmes with the priority topics and files presented by the Prime Minister or the deputy prime minister in the National Assembly are also developed. From this Parliament, we have not been able to hear these reports either of the past Presidency or of the current Presidency. We have presented priorities, topics that affect the citizens of our country, but we do not have the mechanisms for their implementation. We are witnessing the constant violation of the Rules of Procedure, the violation of statehood. In solving important issues in the European Union, small countries are often treated as well as our own. We see that presented in this way, the voice of Bulgaria is not heard in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u106	Thank you. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u107	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Stoynev, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds presents us with a very ambitious Programme, I would say. At least its usefulness will be that we here and the Bulgarian citizens heard what the European Commission will do, respectively the Bulgarian government, the European Union as a whole this year. We must also take into account, of course, the political stage at which Bulgaria is located and that elections are coming. This programme, which we will approve today, which the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is also going to support, can be implemented under two conditions. Firstly, adequate work by the Council of Ministers to adopt timely framework positions on the acts included in the Programme and active parliamentary committees to examine the relevant acts in due time. I stress the parliamentary committees, because sometimes, here in the National Assembly, there is one misunderstanding that all issues relating to the European Union are within the competence of the Committee on European Affairs. On the contrary, after Bulgaria's membership in the European Union, each committee and European Commission or Commission on European issues related to its portfolio, each of these topics will need to be discussed in the relevant committees. This programme will be implemented by the next National Assembly, the 45th, and in the field of parliamentary control on European issues, he has a much more active job ahead of him. Unfortunately, this, the 44th, has failed on this subject. After the brief flashes during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in which the European topics were really the focus of the National Assembly's attention, everything European since the end of the Presidency literally sank and we have not had a single debate in the National Assembly on such topics. The Prime Minister did not come once to inform us about Bulgaria's positions before the European Council or the decisions of the European Council after its participation in them. This is art. 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister did not come once to inform us about the results of Bulgaria's participation in the decision-making process during the previous Presidency and priorities during the current one. This is art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, the problem of parliamentary control exists in principle not only on European issues, and this topic was raised this morning. Chairman Karayancheva promised statistics. I'll mention a sentence. The last office to hold a full term is Sergey Stanishev's. In his four years as Prime Minister Stanishev has answered 98 questions and 100 questions. In his four years as Prime Minister Boyko Borisov has answered five questions and five questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u108	Mr. Vigenin, are you on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u109	I think that statistic is enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u110	Are you talking about the report right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u111	I'm talking about the report because the same is the ratio in terms of...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u112	Well, he's for the future job...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u113	That's right. It's the same with regard to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u114	...not for past tense.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u115	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Chairman. Turn off my mic, it's become your practice now. I won't object. The term is running out, there will be other people...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u116	I'm sorry, but somehow I'm not comfortable with your knowledge of the Rules to make a comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u117	If you're uncomfortable, don't interrupt me, please. So I come to the next sentence that the issue of control is also on European issues, and the ratios are generally the same. That's gonna have to change after the election. And now we're talking about the future, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u119	I hope you don't interrupt me. BSP will push for a gradual strengthening of the role of the National Assembly on the issues of the European agenda. We will propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly in the next term, which we are adopting today will actually cover, and we will not allow for an ill-intentional interpretation of the provisions relating to the Prime Minister's hearings, as is now being done with respect to art. Art. 126, Art. 128. We will propose the transformation of the Committee on European Affairs and the control of European funds into a full Commission with an increase in its composition in line with the ratios between the political groups. We will strengthen its powers with regard to the control of ministers. We will oblige the ministers to report their participation in the meetings of the Council of the European Union to the regional committees, and the important issues will be discussed in the National Assembly. According to the Recovery Plan, for example, it will be one of the first documents to enter into the National Assembly first in the committees afterwards and in the Chamber. Regardless of the stage at which it will be approved by the Council of Ministers and, respectively, the European Commission. The debate on the future of Europe, which started in the European Union, will be actively led in the National Assembly. We will build the capacity of the National Assembly, expand it on the topics related to the European Union, using the best European practices we have studied. I'm done. In any case, the term of this National Assembly is running out, but it is good to learn well from the mistakes, shortcomings and deficits so that the next National Assembly can be really effective on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u120	- What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The annual programme we are discussing sets out the issues on the European agenda, which are, of course, of priority for the country during the current year and formulates the national interest on each of them. We know that it ensures the country's coordinated and effective participation at all levels in the decision-making process in the European Union and the consistent implementation of European policies. Let us not forget that Bulgaria is a full member of the European Union, with all the rights and obligations arising from this circumstance. Of course, one of the biggest challenges is participation in the decision-making process by the Council of the European Union, where, in parallel to finding common interest, each country stands for its national interest. At the beginning of each year the National Assembly shall have all the files for the relevant year, which all the committees, but especially the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, should consider and assess which of these files will be considered for the following year. Of course, the opposition has the right to make any proposals. It is my personal opinion that concrete changes are not necessary, but I did not need the promises that were made by this tribune to be more like election intentions, but this is beyond the subject. Where there is such a strong interest in a particular dossier, they should, of course, be aware of it, monitor it throughout the period. This was also noted in the debate a few weeks ago on own resources, the National Assembly is not outside the debate. The information is available, it can be traced, it can be discussed. If there's a need, there's always something that can be reacted to. Now more on the subject. The annual programme for 2021 includes all important topics and issues for Bulgaria, which are the subject of discussion in the decision-making process in the European Union at the moment, with three topics being presented first. With regard to climate and ecologically sustainable economy, the focus is mainly on the instrument for trans-European energy infrastructure and the package planned by the European Commission, which aims to review all existing European legislation and to comply with the increased climate ambition, taking into account the need for contributions from all sectors. In line with the current position, priorities for Bulgaria remain: ensuring adequate, facilitating framework, taking into account national specificities, respecting the principle of technological neutrality, preserving the competitiveness of the national industry, fair distribution of the benefits and efforts of the transition, providing European funding, avoiding additional costs for households, an affordable cost of energy and ensuring guarantees to achieve the necessary socio-economic transition. Another topic is agriculture and fisheries. On the establishment of the European Health Union, legislative measures include extending the mandates of the European Medicines Agency and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. It is also important to note that the six-month programme of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union includes a total of 42 specific legislative files and topics that will be priority for our country over the next six months and on which we will, of course, aim to protect the national interest to the maximum extent. Bulgaria will, of course, participate actively in the discussions on the European Union draft budget for 2022, and it is important for us to ensure an adequate level of funds for cohesion and common agricultural policies, as well as for the areas of migration and protection of external borders. We are actively involved, of course, in the discussions at European Union level on the implementation of the initiatives of the European Green Deal, the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan 2021, which is the basis for the concept of achieving Bulgaria's climate neutrality objectives. The Green Pact and the Recovery and Sustainability Plan are, of course, a chance for Bulgaria to achieve an accelerated development with care for people, business and nature. In the three districts of Pillar "Zelen Bulgaria" of the National Plan are laid down key reforms, and measures aimed directly at the people are also envisaged. Finally, I would like to say that the European Union is something of which Bulgaria is a major part. We are an equal member with all rights and obligations. Bulgaria participates in the decision-making process, including the National Assembly, participates, conducts debates, expresses its positions and reacts to its national interest in the context of its Euro-Atlantic orientation. Everything else I think is politics. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Angelova, your speech was not very correct. You accused us of BSP politics, election intentions. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You say, quote, "The National Assembly is not outside the debate. To protect the national interest. I'm going to tell you about the agricultural policy that you didn't really protect in those four years. My colleagues and I have repeatedly told you from the parliamentary platform that Bulgaria is totally behind the other European countries related to the EU's agricultural policy. You know what the European Commission's political guidelines are regarding the Green Pact. As a basic document, this is the strategy from the farm to the table. From the farm to the table, what has the Bulgarian government actually done so far? Nothing. Because, when it was adopted on 11 December, the Green Pact, the Decree of the Council of Ministers, which was created so that it could sign the policies and positions of Bulgaria, the common agricultural policy and the strategy from the farm to the table, were not even quoted. There was only the name of the Minister of Agriculture Desislava Taneva and so far it was exhausted. As early as November 2018, former EU commissioner Phil Hogan said national strategic plans related to agriculture should be discussed in national parliaments. We at BSP have repeatedly said from this tribune that this thing should be viewed here, as these are national policies, they are related to future agricultural and agricultural policy. I have repeatedly said that you do not distinguish between agricultural and food policy. Bulgaria is totally behind these processes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u124	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Are you going to use a hole? No. Are there any other speeches? I won't. We're going to vote on the report. I put to the vote the decision to adopt the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues.. 2021, which was read in detail by the rapporteur.. not to read it all again, you heard it from Mr. Stoinev. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision on the report has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ROADS. Importer is the Council of Ministers of 8 February 2021. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act No 102-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 11 February 2021, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act, No 102-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 February 2021. The meeting was attended by: by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Vesela Nacheva, Head of the Minister's political cabinet, and by the State Agency. The proposed bill is drawn up in line with the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union to bring the Bulgarian legislation into line with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/1936 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 amending Directive 2008/96/EC on the management of road infrastructure safety. Directive (EU) 2019/1936 provides that road safety management procedures for road infrastructure are to be applied to both the road parts of the trans-European road network and to motorways and other first-class roads in the Member States, whether in the design, construction or operation phase, with the exception of tunnel roads covered by Directive 2004/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on minimum safety requirements for the tunnels of the trans-European road network. Road safety management procedures shall also apply to road and road infrastructure projects completed with the financial support of the European Union, with the exception of roads not open to the general movement of motor vehicles. The main objectives of the proposed Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act are as follows: - Expanding the scope of road infrastructure safety procedures; - Establishment of a framework for new types of road safety procedures pursuant to Directive (EU) 2019/1936; - Establishment of a framework for the entry of persons in a register of road safety auditors; - Establishment of an electronic platform for the publication of information from incoming signals of road users, including the following activities; - Establishment of a framework on the powers of the State Agency "Safe of road traffic" at the relevant systematic place in the law. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no votes against the Council of Ministers, and 5 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Roads Act, No 102-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u126	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u127	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 102-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 February 2021. At an extraordinary meeting held on 11 February 2021, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 102-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 February 2021. The meeting was attended by: Malina Krumova, Chairman of the State Agency "Safe of Road Traffic" and Angelina Toteva, Vice-President of the same agency. The bill and its motives were presented by Mrs. Malina Krumova. Ms. Krumova pointed out the main objectives set by the adoption of the bill, namely the improvement of the regulations on the implementation of safety procedures for the road network in accordance with European Union legislation on road safety and the introduction of a systematic framework in the law of the State Agency's powers on road safety, including with regard to the implementation of safety management procedures for the road network. Road safety is a reflection of the situation of the main factors determining the transport system, one of which is road infrastructure safety. Road infrastructure safety is an important factor in ensuring the safety of all road users. In this respect, it is crucial to limit traffic traumatism in the country to the basis of the implementation of a system assessment of the state of the road network in terms of its safety for road users. Given the important role of the state of the road infrastructure for the protection of life and health of road users, this appropriation is intended to cover: 3.7 of Decision No 16 of the Council of Ministers of 2019 is intended to take action to amend and supplement the Roads Act to extend the scope of the road safety audit procedure. In addition, RAC No 16 of 2019 provides to strengthen the role of the Road Safety Auditor by regulating the mandatory participation of an auditor in carrying out targeted road safety inspections covered by the Directive. The bill also introduces the provisions of Directive (EU) 2019/1936 in our national legislation. In particular, the draft provides for an extension of the scope of road safety procedures; the establishment of a framework for new types of road safety procedures pursuant to Directive (EU) 2019/1936; the establishment of a framework for the entry of persons in a register of road safety auditors, and the establishment of an electronic platform for the publication of information from incoming alerts of road users. In response to a question raised by the National Representative Valentin Radev, Ms. Krumova explained that the bill leads to the need to provide additional funds for which financial justification has been applied, not providing for an increase in the administrative capacity of the State Agency. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act, No 102-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u128	Thank you. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, today, considering the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act submitted by the Council of Ministers for the ninth time only within this National Assembly, proves and confirms the chaos thesis in the legislative initiatives of the ruling majority and the lack of long-term perspective. Trying to synchronise our national legislation with the provisions of Directive (EU) 2019/1936 on the implementation of a road network safety procedure and the limitation of road and transport traumatism in the country, there will once again be a disagreement between at least three ministries and two agencies. It is clear to all of us that Bulgaria is at the forefront of the mortality rate resulting from road accidents among the Member States of the European Union, and we of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we would support all initiatives in terms of rapid, efficient and effective actions for road infrastructure safety, and something more important........................................................................ We do not need to recall all tragic cases in order to give relevant examples. By creating another State Agency "Safe of traffic on the roads" you will create more than what you created a few days ago with the Health Fund and the Prosecutor's Office. And while the Agency will do checks, reviews, audits, reports, plan, programs, unknown in time, road users will continue to break their cars in huge holes on the roads, especially in the dark part of the day, where most places are missing and the so important horizontal marking of the road. But I would also like to draw attention to art. 164c, para. 2 of the Road Traffic Act, where the Chairman of the Agency is empowered by such powers that he can safely compete with the State Agency "National Security" and the State Agency "Research" put together for full control and monitoring, unknown to all drivers of motor vehicles, which are more than half the population in the country. The conclusion that we can draw from the proposed bill is that the ruling majority has imposed a wicked practice to create rules that completely eliminate the philosophy of the laws that they change. That is why the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will abstain from the vote and we will table our changes between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u130	Are there any lines on the speech of the MP Kulkov? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 102-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 February 2021. Vote 84 MPs: 73, none, abstention 11. The bill has been passed. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 12 February 2021 are not available. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jaffer; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Nigyar Jaffer; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Desislav Taskov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the MPs Desislav Taskov, Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev. Parliamentary control begins with questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva. Asking the MP Dora Ilieva Yankova about the work at a distance. Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the rapid imposition of work at a distance during the pandemic brought on the agenda serious issues and cases which workers and employers had never faced before. The challenges on this issue are common to the Member States of the European Union as well as in Bulgaria. Serious conclusions on these issues make the European Foundation for the Improvement of Work and Life, which, as you know, operates on a three-party basis. The following questions sound: the nature and conditions of work at a distance, for the workplace, for technical equipment and maintenance at work, for the organisation and work at a distance and health and safety at work, for the working hours, for the rest, for the reporting of working hours. The conclusions of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Labour and Living Conditions make and bring to the fore a lot of problems. The most important of them are the following: growing uncertainty, especially in Bulgaria, has shown about 20%; balancing between work and life; the most complex is the situation of working women with children under 11 years of age, they most often have conflicts caused by the combination of work and life in their home, and overworked working hours. Along with this, the conflict between work and family environment, which leads to excessive fatigue and, in fact, a waste of family time. As is the question of mental health. Many young women and men have discussed this issue with me during this period, so today I ask the question to you as a minister: what is the policy of your ministry in order to have adequate legislation at a distance to protect workers' rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, the work from a distance was regulated in the Labour Code as early as 2011. Last year, with anti-crisis legislation, the National Assembly adopted our proposals for employers to be able to assign remote work without changing working hours, wages, employee posts and more. In this almost one year of the pandemic, employers, for whom there was no restriction to carry out their activities, have taken different approaches to ensure flexible workflow. This time has shown us that distance work is a good tool for combining personal and professional life in some sectors. However, the rules for its implementation must ensure both productivity and added value of labour. Our observations show that there is a slight increase in jobs in remote form. In the different regions and economic activities, flexible employment is between 5 and 10% in the IT sector, retail production, trade, in the field of services, accounting, consulting and training. In parallel with the opportunities to carry out work at a distance during both last and this year, we have placed training on digital skills in order to ensure better implementation of the labour market. In 2020, under various programmes of the National Employment Action Plan, more than 2500 unemployed and employed persons have been trained to acquire computer skills and 400 others are trained for digital competence. In 2021, we have planned for another 11,600 to undergo such trainings. You know that we have an increase in funds under the National Employment Promotion Plan and 83 million have been allocated. lv. In the coming years, the accelerated processes of digitalisation and digitization of the labour market, as well as the demand for flexible forms of work, will lead to a number of challenges to legislation and control bodies. For example, if you fall at home while your home office is in the middle of a work accident, have some questions already appeared? A serious debate will be needed on these issues between employers' and trade unions before they are dressed in legislative texts, and a European Union directive on the right to break away from the working environment is also expected. As you know, the European Parliament has already recognised the right to exclude workers after the end of the working day and called for follow-up to make it a reality for working people in the European Union. It is necessary to make regulatory changes in relation to the organisation of work at a distance. First of all, regarding the organisation of work and health and safety at work. Secondly, with regard to the workplace of technical equipment and maintenance at work, such as one of the proposals is utility services in the workplace, such as electricity, heat supply, water supply, Internet connectivity, to be charged to the employee, and in technical equipment such as computers, equipment for conference calls, scanners, printers and others to be provided by employers, unless otherwise agreed between these countries, including the change of place of work. They must also be regulated: the statutory work accident at work at a distance; the rights of the employer at work at a distance to be exercised without the consent of the worker; the rights of the employees; also communication with them. These are topics on which a serious debate is to be held with employers and trade unions and will be subject to future changes to the Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u134	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, you have two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, two questions I'd like to ask you. The working conditions at work at a distance and above all we debate the actuality and sound now in the pandemic, in the collective negotiation there it is clear that when it is in its place of work, the Labour Inspection guards, keeps and is right on behalf of the state, ensuring that the laws can make this regulation. Now, under the conditions of a pandemic, your ministry is responsible for the Labour Inspection. Did the Labour Inspection find its place and what did it do during this period so that it could guarantee the working conditions and what you mentioned in your speech really meet the criteria laid down in the Bulgarian legislation? And secondly, we are all talking about the future of the state, we are talking about the family, we are talking about the children, what are the conclusions you are making about the impact on the Bulgarian family when working at a distance and especially when it is in a home office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, we have not done analysis of the effects of work remotely during the pandemic. What I said and read to you in the answer I gave you is that at this stage this is used in certain sectors, especially in the IT sector. There is now a requirement by both trade unions and employers' organizations that we should be more flexible and regulate all these topics and issues that we are talking about. Regarding the General Labour Inspectorate. No job checks have been carried out in a home environment, because there is no such specific regulation, but there is already a growing need and questions on both the part of trade unions and employers to regulate the occupational accident in a home environment, including to bring relevant changes to the definition of the concept of labor accident and the Social Security Code. With regard to the impact on families. At this stage, this is rather a form that is preferred as far as we have seen that there was great interest in the help we made for children who were studying remotely and for parents who stayed with them at home. There is an interest in combining both the personal and the professional life of working in the home environment, but this depends, of course, on the possibilities of the particular business and the particular sector. Rather, if you can say there is a conclusion that is at an expert level and not so proven empirically, it is that those who have higher education and work, which is in sectors with higher technologies added, prefer work in a home environment, while others are rather inclined to look for ways to work more locally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u138	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Madame and Mr. Ministers! Actually, Minister Sacheva, you answered my question a little administratively, my question, and my expectations were slightly higher. Given that both work from a distance that was required over the years to the pandemic and work from a distance during the pandemic, especially now, which is becoming a trend of lasting importance, triggers many fundamental changes in social level, the effects on labour, family, socioma and citizens' rights. In parallel with this, we are aware.. and perhaps you only reflect that work from a distance, yes, has also become a powerful tool in the battle against the pandemic, but in parallel with this there are many problems.... it is necessary to adopt measures not to blur the line between labor and life activities. You say, "Prefered." I don't know. I guess in the dynamics that you have as a minister, many young professors even, mothers with two children, with three saying it's extremely difficult, at the end of the day they feel drained when they've conducted this whole process in a small home and when the children were also at school remotely. So there are a lot of problems, a lot of serious problems, and here it's debatable whether it's a preferred job by the intelligent group or not. Along with this, I think there is also the issue which is discussed in the European Union: about the right to express discontent. Maybe the administration that you run, regardless of the campaign that we're all going to get into, needs to think about it, think about it and work on it. To me, the conclusions sound to employers, because they need to be more flexible, they need to see that measure in which they release certain costs, and they burden the family and other budgets. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] With regard to the envisaged guarantees to lead this work and the state to regulate, the question is above all: to make such a Bulgarian society in the future that there is good quality of work and of life and to meet the challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. The next question is from the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the public sale of premises of the Labor Bureau in Shumen. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madame and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, I do not know if you have bothered to check, but a similar question was asked to your predecessor in the same connection, because for the second time a private judicial contractor sells premises where employees of the Bureau of Labour work are working I have had the opportunity to see dozens of Shumen citizens waiting every day for the Bureau of Labour and we have reasonable concerns to believe that the work of the Labour Bureau will be violated if it comes to selling these premises. What is seen glued to the building is a notice of execution of case No 20208760400881 according to the description of a private court contractor, according to which on 22 March there will be a sale of these premises by this private court contractor in the building of the District Court of Shumen. In this regard, my question is: how will the sale of these premises, if any, affect the work of the employees of the Bureau of Labour, the city of Shumen; are alternatives provided for their relocation, and whether the Ministry in charge will take action to preserve the premises, something which Mr Petkov, your predecessor, had undertaken as a commitment? For a while, things had settled down, but right now, the whole town that's passing by sees this thing and asks the legitimate question: what's going to happen to the Labor Bureau? In this regard, I would ask you to answer me if you intend to take any action in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, providing suitable working conditions for the employees of the Department of Labour and Labour and the city of Shumen, especially under the conditions of increased number of clients, as well as employers, is of undeniable importance for access to services and for their quality provision. Currently, the Directorate uses three floors of the administrative building, which were given the order of the district governor of Shumen and a private state property act in 2002. In 2006 the right of management on part of the property was revoked. In 2019, the Employment Agency notified a targeted inventory and assessment for the purpose of public sale in the performance case and inventory of a private judge contractor, but due to the lack of a buyer the procedure was completed. During this period, meetings and talks were held with the district governor of Shumen and the mayor of Shumen Municipality, as a result of which a proposal was made to provide the Labour Bureau with the building of a former municipal school, which however requires expensive major repairs. In 2019, correspondence was exchanged and expert meetings were held with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works However, a solution to this problem has not been found. The now declared public sale area is part of the first floor of the building in which the Labour Office continues to be a user. The premises are owned and are included in the capital of the State-owned company, which, in turn, is in liquidation at the present time. At the Employment Agency and at the Department of Labour (Office of the Labour Office) the city of Shumen has not yet received any official information by a private judicial contractor or by another body in connection with a procedure for public sale or change of ownership of the property. At the entrance of the building, as you quoted, was placed a notice by a private court contractor, which announced a public sale on February 22nd on part of the first floor with a starting price of 304 thousand. lv. On 23 February 2021, the tender or the announcement of the buyer is expected to take place if there are candidates for participation in the public sale. At present, no changes to the regime of work and the performance of the functions of the Directorate are required and it continues to work according to the established rules of work. The employment agency has developed several alternative options for continuing the work of the Labour Bureau so as to ensure normal service to registered jobseekers and employers. At this stage, due to the lack of another suitable building, it is not possible to move the Agency, but depending on the outcome of the public sale procedure, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Employment Agency will continue to seek a solution, together with representatives of local government bodies, namely their likely transfer to another building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u144	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u145	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, I am anxious to see that there is a tendency to be ministers here and to lie not about you, but about your predecessor because of this tribune you lied. He said that the funds were provided for this building to pay off this debt and that there would be no more question of whether it would be sold whether these people would be taken out on the street and to work in front. What you are saying, and Mr. Petkov told us here two years ago that at the school, you see, but it would be worth a few million levs. Is the State currently able to pay 6, 7, 8 million? lv. and redesign a school that's in decay, or stay in a building that works perfectly normally? Another insane thing I hear is that a state property is currently being sold at an auction for unpaid debts, that is, the state is a bad owner. If you cannot resolve this matter within the limits of your powers and in contact with your colleagues, do not know what other issues could be resolved in the future at least in relation to the needs of those who have lost their jobs at the moment and who are waiting for any compensation?! The Shumen Labor Bureau is one of the most visited places at the moment, because there are a lot of people who have lost their jobs. I really expected a more definite answer from you, and now we're waiting as pussy hunters for whether or not game will pass, or if it passes, we'll shoot it if it doesn't pass, we won't shoot it, and we'll look for what to do or a fisherman who, if he doesn't catch fish, will go to buy it from the carp store to take it to his wife, because at the moment you've explained it to me, we'll wait for the auction to pass and see what happens, and then we'll look for his caranna. I expected a more serious attitude from you and to say from this tribune: "Yes, we will make sure that we do not disturb the normal rhythm of work" because March 23 will come soon. You'll be in a campaign most likely, and who will deal with this case? If this property is sold on March 23rd, what will happen? Then there's supposed to be a spike in the COVID-19 crisis and people are going to be out of work, not God forbid, but who's going to serve them and who's going to deal with this case? I'll allow myself to leave you this notice, though, because you said no one gave it to you, but at least you should have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u146	Thank you. Madam Minister, you're not going to use your coat, are you? Thank you. Your questions have run out. Have a good job! The next question is to the Minister of Interior Mr. Hristo Terziyski, who will answer a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov about the administrative building of the First District Service Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers of honor, Herr Terziyski! My question concerns the implementation or, rather, the results of the implementation of the project for the Safer Region (Gyurgiu County) and Ruse District, co-financed by the European Union and worth just over 5 million. BGN, as well as the participation of the Bulgarian state worth just over half a million leva, which had to carry out the repair and reconstruction of four of the buildings of the First Regional Service "Fire safety and protection of the population" in Ruse. The project started in 2017 with a duration of 36 months and one of its most important activities was the administrative building of the First District Service. They started in March 2018. Three years later, however, the building is not yet used, while all of the employees of Fire Safety and Population Protection are located at the base of the Second District Service under absolutely ineligible and impossible domestic conditions for which I have had the opportunity to signal including your predecessors. Worse still, the situation poses a risk to the population of the town of Ruse and the surrounding settlements, inasmuch as it increases the response time in the event of an accident, as all the forces of the fire department are concentrated in only one place. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: is there a delay in relation to the project and the respective contracts terms of the work on the administrative building of the First District Service, Fire Safety and the protection of the population in Ruse, if so, what are the reasons, and perhaps the most important thing is the introduction of this building into service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u148	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u149	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Zarkov! The political and professional leadership of the Ministry of Interior shall make targeted efforts to adapt to the constantly changing security environment. Active action shall be taken to step up the modernisation of the structures in the Ministry, including the replacement of some of the specialized technical means, the improvement of material and physical working conditions and the improvement of the energy efficiency of administrative buildings, and many others. In this regard, the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection (CEF) implemented projects funded by the Structural and Investment Funds of the European Union and other financial mechanisms. In just the last three years, nearly 30 buildings have been renovated. We also improved the vocational training of future firefighters, and at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, we built a tactical polygon for training and preparedness for floods and subsequent crises. Regarding the implementation of a complete renovation of the First Regional Service. Ruse, of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. The procedure under the Public Procurement Act was conducted for the selection of contractor for design, construction and copyright supervision. The project's estimated value is up to 2 million. 622 thousand. 922 lv. without VAT and includes the main renovation and reconstruction of the administrative building, the garage for fire trucks, the gymnasium and the training tower. The subject-matter of the contract is activity from the implementation of the project "Safety Region" "Gyurgiu County and Ruse District," funded by the European Regional Development Fund with national and own funding. On 4 June 2018, a contractor was selected and a month later a contract totaling 2 million was concluded. Ninety thousand. lv. without VAT, with the term of execution of the contract until 1 March 2020. There is a delay in the implementation of the contract, the construction works have not been completed according to the agreed deadlines, the contractor has not prepared protocols for the completion of the construction works. For this reason, the relevant officials in the Ministry of Interior system have taken the necessary measures and blocked payments under the terms of the contract concluded. In parallel with this with the manager of the company contractor and with the construction supervision, numerous meetings were held to solve the problems preventing the implementation of the arrangements. At present, the preparation and signature of the constitutional acts under Ordinance No 3 of 31 July 2003 on the drawing up of acts and protocols during construction. The acts and protocols which have been drawn up and drawn up under this Regulation shall have the effect of establishing the circumstances relating to the initiation, implementation and commissioning of the works. The relevant officials of the Ministry of Interior shall make all necessary efforts to put the building of the First District Service into operation in Ruse. To conclude, I would like to assure you that the territorial structures of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the population are equipped with staff and specialized equipment to carry out the tasks assigned to them. I use the opportunity given to me by the National Assembly stands to express my gratitude to all firefighters and their leaders for their dedication, professionalism and daily work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, you have the right to reply for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u151	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I join your thanks for the role of the employees in Fire Safety and the protection of the population, but I think we owe them a little more than that. My line is very specific, with suggestions. The fact is that all four buildings under this project, which is funded, are related to this administrative building. If you pass through Ruse, I hope you will soon have a way there, and take the Third March Boulevard, you will see a very beautiful red building, which, however, remains unusable because someone has not done their job. In this case, whoever didn't do his job seems to be the project contractor. I welcome that you have taken measures. Now they must continue and must be finished, because, among other things, it is about trans-regional cooperation and we must monitor our country's image so that we can ask for more money from the European Union, in a cooperative with Romania. At the same time, the building of the Second Service is positioned on the boulevard of Bulgaria in a building in which it is completely impossible to reside, I assure you, and these employees cannot perform their duties properly, although they are doing their best. So they are ready to do it themselves, but they just need, how can I say, the Minister's political support to feel that you will help this work, and they know what to do.. the boys and girls who work there, because they are really very prepared. And I end up with the following staff are very prepared without a doubt, but for the specialized funds I express a doubt. Ruse is one of the few district cities that do not have a fire engine to collect more than three tons of water capacity, which, according to the employees, creates problems. Last week or a few days ago, there was a fire where several times they had to go back and forth because the machines they had didn't contain enough water. I understand the difficulty of all these problems, Mr. Minister, I understand the limitations of funds, but this is about demonstrating the will. If you go there or if you send someone to that end, things will unblock very quickly. You can also count on my support as far as possible to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u152	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Good finale. Are you going to use a hole, Mr. Minister, or not? No. Thank you, have a good job. The next question is to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. The issue is from the MPs Evdokiya Asenova and Anna Slavova regarding the decision of the Association Council of the Ministry of Education and Science for a national survey. Mrs. Slavova, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! A decision by the Agriculture Council of the Ministry of Education and Science a few weeks ago decided to conduct a national anonymous survey among pedagogical specialists for the reasons why they do not want to be vaccinated. My questions to you are: what did such a survey require, for what purpose is it done, and what results is expected from the Ministry? You probably knew very well or rather assumed the results of one such study, as teachers are part of our society, and in it the attitudes are currently well known. Do you not believe that after the obvious failure of the Ministry of Health in conducting an information campaign regarding vaccination, instead of this survey, the Ministry of Education could have made a quality information campaign in the field of educational specialists to stimulate their desire for vaccination?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Slavova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Asenova, dear Mrs. Slavova! As you know, the teachers were included in the second phase of the National vaccination plan and this is another expression of our attitude towards education, which was raised as a priority in contrast to many other countries. Yesterday I had a meeting with the Association of Bulgarian Schools abroad, you know, at Sunday Schools. They shared: in very few countries we can enjoy such privileged treatment of the education system as we have in Bulgaria, including vaccination, including the provision of the possibility of antigen tests. All these options are optional and this is repeated and retributed. Our desire is for more attendance training. This can be achieved more quickly and more quickly if we have more vaccinated. This was also discussed at the meeting of the Growing Council for Tripartite Cooperation. I would like to thank our social partners because we have a very good partnership with them in this format. They raised the question themselves and asked us for answers, but since we do not have such a representative study, we were unable to provide information with a high degree of credibility. On the other hand, you know that the education system is the largest in it is occupied by over 160 thousand people. Only pedagogical staff in schools and kindergartens is 90 thousand. This provoked the decision that was actually proposed by our social partners and supported by everyone. After all, this study was done by the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers. This is the largest trade union in the country.. there are over 80 thousand members with non-pedagogical staff. I think the questions they let you go were very well structured. Open their website and you'll see the results of the study. In short, I will not read your entire results, but they finally, after all others, draw two conclusions: teachers have a positive attitude towards vaccines, show interest and seek scientific evidence of their effectiveness, but still a large part of them do not find enough information. The other thing they said was that a more serious explanatory campaign was needed by regional government inspections and other medical authorities in the field of immunology. I spoke with the President of the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers Mrs. Takeva, and at a meeting of the Association Council she will present all these results to us. It's not unusual to question teachers. Today there are modern, good technological opportunities to do surveys with a large number of participants. As for the explanatory campaign, the fact is that today we are living in a society with an abundance of information, the fact is that many teachers are also in other media of information, the fact is that there is no medical, scientific authority that in recent weeks has spoken against vaccination. Everyone's common desire is to have a larger number of vaccinated. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But, I repeat, this does not in any case mean that mandatory vaccination will be made. If a teacher today does not have confidence, what the study shows is that they are not generally against vaccines, but rather refrain from doing so at this stage, he will have the opportunity to do so at each next stage. Of course we've been restrained with regard to the information campaign, at least because at first we only had one approved vaccine. We've only recently had three, but there are still not enough quantities to be delivered to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Asenova, are you going to pick up a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u157	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In fact, the question was provoked by numerous signals from colleagues who turned to us. The clarity that you have given at the moment that the Ministry will not actually cook differently from the survey of the Bulgarian Teachers' Syndicate was clear before it that the unwillingness for vaccination and the desire to take advantage of this opportunity among the teachers is comparable to the other priority groups. I looked at the poll results. In fact, the problem is the little information that is found, the possible side effects and how vaccination would affect the presence of other accompanying diseases among teachers. I am going back to what my colleague Slavova started with, that not only the Ministry of Education should make a explanatory campaign, but, in principle, the lack of such a explanatory campaign as a state policy is probably part of the problem because here is also the Minister of Health from the distrust that still exists in citizens to take advantage of free vaccination. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Asenova. Would you like to use a hole, Mr. Secretary? Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u159	Thank you. I say again: it's not as much a mistrust as it is a quest to make it happen at this point, to wait, not to be the first. But in the teaching community, there is no mood for vaccines, which is what the study showed. Regarding the information campaign, I thank Minister Angelov not only because he is here, but because he also joined our sectoral dialogue and heard the voice of our social partners. Soon we will have another meeting with him, where they will present these results to him. In any case, this poll is suitable for such a explanatory campaign. I don't agree that there is no reliable and reliable information about what is being published, but none of us is a microbiologist, has been involved in creating the vaccine itself in order to personally see through the microscope what is happening, or has been involved in the studies themselves. Therefore, each of us has little or no confidence in authority. Again, there is no authority that has been negative against vaccines. The fact is, vaccines save millions of lives. Before 1973, five million people died of smallpox. After 1973, three million people are saved annually from a number of other diseases thanks to medicine, science, immunology. Even if there are risks, these risks are much smaller than the risk of possible infection and a possible collision with the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The questions to you are over. Have a good job. Have a good day. And now we are going with questions to the champion in today's parliamentary control "the Minister of Health, to whom there are five questions, at the most so far. Mr. Angelov will first answer a question of MPs Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Desislav Taskov regarding Post-Covid-19 syndrome. I very much ask the Members of the National Assembly, asking and formulating their questions, to formulate them in pure Bulgarian. Post-Covid-19 syndrome has no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, you are entering a rhetoric that you are not an expert in. I just want to make it clear to you that Mr. Angelov is a record player because because of his employment he was not present at the parliamentary control of the previous weeks. You pulled my tongue, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, our question concerns Post-Covid-19 syndrome. This is a concept that is required in scientific literature, in medical reports and concerns, as is well known to the medics who monitor this problem, late-term changes that occur in patients with clinical symptoms of SOVID 19 syndrome and which refer to changes in almost all practical systems in the human body and organs such as the cardiovascular system, lungs, and, of course, first of all, kidneys, nervous system and so on. The issue is quite important, because it also deals with the necessary concerns in many countries, especially in Germany, where specialized structures are being built that deal with the treatment of patients with these symptoms. In general, it concerns the integration of two structures, a polyclinical outpatient part, where there are medical offices for diagnosis and outpatient treatment; and hospitalization structures where rehabilitation events take place. As you know, Mr. Minister, a pioneer in our country is your favorite Alexandrovska hospital, which realized, hopefully, a successful project just to treat Post-Covid-19 syndrome. Obviously, this is the future that awaits us because it is expected that this symptom, which I am talking about, will exist in the next two years or more. But, as we well know, treatment without resources, without financial resources, is not working. In this regard, my question to you is: do you think that the National Health Insurance Fund should provide, with payment for the treatment of patients with Post-Covid-19 syndrome, specialized structures or as it is now legally correct to say: should it purchase medical activities and services carried out in specialised structures dealing with the target Post-Covid-19 syndrome? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u162	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, please give your answer to the late consequences of the CoVID 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, in the past one-year period since the first case of Sars-CoV-2 virus was recorded in Europe, despite the accumulated knowledge about it, there are still many questions that seek answers. Studies have shown that coronavirus infection, affecting organs and systems in the human body, causes both physical and mental consequences over a longer period of time, the so-called Post-Covid-19 syndrome, which have not yet been sufficiently studied. So far, it is clear that symptoms are mostly controlled by the respiratory system, cardiovascular system, nervous system, metabolism, which is probably a consequence of the effect of the virus in the tissues of these organs. The residual somatic and functional symptoms and the parameters of post-sick changes are in the process of recording and clarifying. The assessment of the type and characteristics of the different manifestations, persistent symptoms and changes remains. Options with the participation of specialists from various medical specialties are considered based on the accumulated knowledge, experience, precise diagnostics and studies to differentiate Post-Covid symptoms in order to assess the need for subsequent outpatient or steady-state monitoring and treatment. In case the patient's health status and indications by the various organs and systems require hospitalization and hospital treatment depending on the specific characteristics and needs, treatment conditions are available on the relevant existing clinical pathways in a hospital selected by the patient, which has concluded a contract with the regional health insurance fund, and various specialists may also be involved in the treatment process. Clinical pathways contain requirements and rules for clinical behaviour in the course of diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of diseases, structural units, apparatus and necessary specialists. Often in such patients, depending on the clinical course of different stages with the prevalence of the involvement of one or another body or system in the body, a multidisciplinary approach is also required In this way, the existing opportunities for quality treatment will be used to the maximum extent. Moreover, a clinical path is currently being developed together with rehabilitation hospitals, which is to be published in addition to the Ordinance of the basic package. We are also working on the creation of a national program in the accumulation of sufficient knowledge and, of course, answers to all experts' questions precisely about caring for patients with the so-called Covid syndrome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a line? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I am pleased with your answer. I knew in advance that you are well aware of the symptoms and new challenges that present to us the late symptoms and treatment of the patients who have spent COVID-19. I wish, however, because I already notice a lot of Bulgarian citizens in meetings with them, who have at least visible problems resulting from the hair disease, to speed up the resource provision of this future clinical path that you say. Here perhaps they should really engage in so many of the numerous hospitals that will naturally treat the more severe complications, but the lighter complications where rehabilitation is concerned, this is a niche where we can fully use the hospitals for rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u166	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. A hole? You won't use it. The next question to the Minister of Health is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Desislav Taskov on the vaccination plan in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Strategy for its implementation. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u167	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! This is perhaps the most up-to-date and hottest topic in Bulgarian society in the last days and months. I sympathize for the difficult period of the ministries of Professor Angelov, who fell for it, but he lays down all the opportunities he has to deal with the situation. The problems we want to focus on are related to the adopted vaccination plan and the difficulties encountered in its implementation. We treat ourselves with understanding that the difficulties in a large percentage concern outside our country, they concern themselves with the difficult provision of the required number of vaccines. Here perhaps we should quite rightly share whether we should fully trust the structures of the European Union, which we thought would fairly commit to the allocation of the optimal number of vaccines that can be provided for citizens of the European Union. Unfortunately, the latest data we have tells us that the wealthy first ten countries seem to provide the greater number of vaccines than the different types for their citizens, and we reach a smaller number of vaccines. The latest data from a day ago are actually in blatant contradiction with what is being said in the rich countries of Western Europe. As of this morning Bulgarian citizens have been vaccinated....3.5%....that is one third of the percentage. And here we are talking about these 25 000 Bulgarian citizens who have been vaccinated twice and not those 90 000 Bulgarian citizens who were first vaccinated. This is a problem that needs to be solved. Unfortunately, we also face the challenge with the South African strain, which cannot be stopped from coming to our country, which again, according to the latest data on Pfizer's vaccine, carries six times less antibodies, and for Moderna, we have practically no data on whether it leads to the formation of antibodies in a human organism vaccinated with them. I don't want to be naked. We definitely believe that if vaccines are present, you are coping with their administration. Unlike other countries, you do not allow the use of vaccines for technical reasons, but you are facing a major difficulty in implementing the vaccination plan. Moreover, you are forced to vaccinate first-time priority groups, which slightly differ with the general humanitarian sense. I'm talking about older people who should be vaccinated in the first place. Employees who are younger, representatives of the SIC and so on, who run out of and thus limited number of vaccines should be vaccinated. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My specific question is: how do you plan to deal with your Strategy and the timetable for achieving the necessary collective immunity from 70% vaccinated Bulgarian citizens?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u168	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, the question you are asking is extremely important. In the last few days, we've seen practically what's going on. The Bulgarian Government adopted a vaccination plan. This vaccination plan was designed to be in line with almost all vaccination plans in the European Union. There were several approaches when we worked out this plan. The first approach was to choose how vaccination started in us and we bet on the most frequently applied choice, namely to start from those people who are on the front line who provide the strength of our army to deal with the Kovid pandemic. Then let's start with the Bulgarian teachers, with the social institutions where the elderly are accommodated, who are the care of the state. Of course, you know, there were farms that were minks, where there was a risk of transmission of the disease and the creation of strains that were resistant, we had to react very quickly. In Bulgaria these are 80 people as numbers. Then we started with phase three, where institutions are important to public life. We have a decree by the Council of Ministers that describes critical infrastructure. There, of course, all important sectors for the state of the water sector, energy sector, information sector, Bulgarian journalists, as it is very important that they are healthy so that the information that we want to get to the maximum number of Bulgarian citizens, they are able to transmit it. Then we decided to vaccinate the participants in the sectional election committees, the district electoral committees, the Central Committees, all who are involved in a calm electoral process. Of course, phase four, which is the phase with people over 65 years of age and those with chronic diseases. When we started the synchronized implementation of phase two and third, we noticed a bad trend in our opinion, namely the declared participation for vaccination - of which there are fewer people present in the vaccination centers than they said. This creates extremely serious logistical difficulties in making the vaccine, what to do with the vaccine and how to provide people from the relevant phases to be included in a very short time. Analyzing this process, we know the number of vaccines that will come to our country, today at a meeting with the prime minister, we have made a decision following a proposal submitted by the vaccination staff to launch a fourth phase of vaccination. Why? Because we're getting into this situation, which is a paradox for me. We have vaccines, there are people who have signed up who don't want to be vaccinated obviously, everyone has the right to make an informed decision, and at the same time there are people waiting. Since the number of vaccines is sufficient, we start phase four, and if we have people on the relevant days who do not appear but who have declared a desire to be vaccinated, the so-called green corridors for people entering all phases will be created so that we can apply the vaccines of the Bulgarian citizens as quickly as possible to reach the so-called collective immunity that you have spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you two additional supplementary questions. The first is evidently that the number of vaccines required for the country is not sufficient. Despite the predeclared intentions of the European Union structures, we see that some European countries are already in direct negotiations on the use of vaccines from countries outside the European Union, Britain and the United States of America. I am talking mainly about the use of vaccines developed in Russia and China. My first supplementary question is: do you think about delivering an additional number of vaccines other than those previously agreed with the European Union, from Russia and China or third countries? The second question I have asked once, but I will ask it again because I see that colleagues from the Institute of Microbiology continue to develop the technology of a Bulgarian vaccine. Somehow, it made a very unpleasant impression on me that they say it's about 100,000. BGN, if I am not mistaken, I think this is the right figure to complete the technological development of the Bulgarian vaccine, which can then be produced in the Bulgarian company. Have we reached that we cannot support a Bulgarian structure, with an international authority that will obviously help us to overcome the consequences of the pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u172	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are you going to use a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, I cannot agree that the number of vaccines for the country that has been designated is not sufficient. I am responsible for stating that the number of vaccines is as follows: the number of vaccines is determined by type of vaccine, namely so many doses of vaccine of each type that each species can be vaccinated by three million Bulgarian citizens. That is, every Bulgarian citizen should be able to choose a vaccine when he decides to be vaccinated. This was done when this decision was made. That was his philosophy. Of course, the rate of delivery of vaccines in the country does not depend on Bulgaria. The President of the European Commission Mrs Ursula von der Lyon also spoke about a problem with vaccination logistics. In this regard, I would like to make something very clear. Regarding the delivery of a vaccine from a third country, that is, not a Member State of the European Union, and what you are saying: Russia or China, currently at the level of the European Medicines Agency, EMA are input documents and an assessment of all technologies tested on this vaccine. Then, when the European Agency comes up with an opinion, a decision is taken and authorisation is given for the use of this vaccine on the territory of the European Union, of course, if we see a problem with logistics, delay of vaccines and if Russia can deliver vaccines faster than the delivery plan in Bulgaria, yes, our country would benefit from this opportunity. But to date, we adhere to the agreements concluded by the European Commission with the suppliers companies in implementation of the National Assembly's decision by which we authorised the European Commission to conduct these negotiations. Regarding the Bulgarian vaccine, to tell you the truth, I would not allow myself to comment in detail on what you said because the information that is exported to the so-called Bulgarian vaccine is extremely controversial and inconsistent. The Ministry of Health would be committed to supporting any such initiative when the Ministry of Health is briefed on all legal documentation. Any statements by Bulgarian doctors in the media cannot be a reason to engage the government in one direction or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Rumen Georgiev and Ivan Ibrishimov about the alarming increase in the number of newly infected with COVID-19 in Kyustendil district. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, since the beginning of February Kyustendil has already crossed the limits of 300 per hundred thousand infected by CIVID-19. Unfortunately, at the first and second waves, the city and the district were one of the first and most infected with COVID-19. It is worrying that the Ministry did not take this into account and allowed in early February the city to be quickly identified as one of the most infected Mr. Minister, you visited Kyustendil last week, you were also in the hospital, but I will quote what you said: "This concerns us because we cannot find answers to the questions why this is happening. This puzzles us and raises questions that we cannot find answers to. " - That is why, with a fellow MP from BSP, we asked a question about last Friday's control why this is happening and what measures have you taken by the Ministry? Unfortunately, you didn't come last Friday to respond to Kyustendilians, and from last Tuesday until today, tens of hundreds of citizens have contacted us and asked us why you didn't come last Friday, and what measures are you taking? In this regard, it is also our question: what measures does the Ministry take, why did you allow, when both the first and the second wave Kyustendil was one of the cities with the most infected? We want an answer to these questions, and I hope that what you said earlier about vaccination will be reflected in your answer now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u176	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! An extremely political question in which the truth is extremely small. I strongly disagree with what you said that the Ministry of Health has done nothing or that we have not taken into account the trend that is in Kyustendil. Quite the opposite. Yeah, we're worried; yeah, there's a lot of ambiguities. You expect us to answer questions that science has not answered worldwide. On the contrary, I visited the hospital in Kyustendil at the exact moment when it was necessary. The analysis was carried out by our experts. Until the day I was in Kyustendil, the samples had not come out at the National Center of Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. The answer has already been clearly proven is the British version of the virus in Kyustendil at the end of last year. What can be done? This has already been done, namely the measures that have been taken by the district headquarters, agreed with the Ministry of Health, wearing masks in the open, i.e. tightening of antiepidemic measures, tempering, i.e. measuring temperature, thermometering when entering the polyclinic and, of course, carrying out antigen tests. These are the measures that can be taken and they, of course, result. Regarding my absence, as you said, of Friday's control, I want to tell you that Bulgaria has many areas where there are problems and I visit almost every day an area in the country and get acquainted on site with the situation as it is. In Kyustendil the measures have been taken, the measures have been effective. There is absolutely no pressure in the hospital, there are all necessary means, medicines, consumables, disinfectants. The vaccination process is proceeding according to the needs of the people. If you have signals from citizens who are concerned or asking questions, please refer them to the Ministry of Health. The experts will respond in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I understand that you're circling the country, this thing we see from the TV. But, again, it was logical that you were here on Friday to answer to Kyustendilians. That's what I'm saying. Some of the issues that are worrying: firstly, you are saying that Kyustendil is an isolated case, so far there is no concern for other settlements and areas. Now you have given some answers, but people ask the following: why are we closing restaurants, and for businesses and sewing shops, by the way, with 300 people in one place, things are different. Our fellow MPs from BSP several times during parliamentary control raised a question about the role of the labour medicine services in fighting COVID-19. In this regard, I did not hear from your reply whether you were engaged in Kyustendil district and about these signals I gave you about the tailoring company and the Family Type Center for children and adolescents up to 18 years old? These are the questions I'd like you to answer. Next, people ask the following question: why are they not free from wearing masks in the open, people who have been vaccinated or sick? They have antibodies in their system! Is that right, or isn't it? These are questions the people of Kyustendil ask me, that's why I'm asking you. I want an answer to these questions. Once again, it was right for you to come and answer to Kyustendilians on Friday. I hope what I also said at the beginning of the issue of vaccination is that Kyustendil is currently the most infected, will it change the vaccination plan to know whether there will be a special programme for them? These are questions people ask me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u180	Thank you. It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I want to return you to medicine and science, and leave you a little behind politics, but obviously you want everything that is happening in the country to do politics in your area. Perhaps for you, the election campaign has already begun. Good luck to you! I hope the Kyustendilians pick you out. With regard to Kyustendil and the closing of restaurants, the tailoring firm and so on. Look, our logic in measures has always been one thing that tells us what science and the rocks we work with. We've never had emotions, nor have people's fear led us. Surely the logic of all can be true according to their understanding, but the reasons for making clear decisions and actions can only be one thing that science tells us. And that's what we do. Regarding everything that is happening in Kyustendil, the responsible institution is called RZI I will refer to the institution in question to carry out the necessary checks and to take measures if necessary. Regarding why people should wear masks when they have been vaccinated or sick. The answer is very simple and it is as follows: all people who have received a vaccine and have a titer of antibodies that have become ill again and have a titer of antibodies that will not allow them to get sick and will not allow them, if they are ill, to spend the disease? This can be achieved only and only guaranteed with the vaccine, can carry the virus. This is not the opinion of the Minister of Health, this is the opinion of world experts. That is why the requirement to enter the country is not related to vaccination or to the disease and titre of antibodies, but to the requirement for a negative negative, PCR test. When the level of 70% vaccinated is reached, the so-called collective immunity is achieved, which prevents the spread of the virus in general around the world. Then all anti-epidemic measures will be removed. Yeah, then we'll get our lives back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Anna Slavova and Evdokia Asenova regarding problems of those suffering from Down syndrome. Mrs. Asenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, for months the families of those suffering from Down syndrome have signaled problems related to the decisions of TELK. Last year, in October, at a meeting with the organizations involved, they examined the issues on the topic with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry made a commitment to initiate changes in the Regulation on medical expertise. Six months later, it didn't work. That is why our questions to you are as follows: does the Ministry of Health provide for changes in the Regulation, if they are what they are and when they will be realized, and if not, how will the problems of those suffering from Down syndrome be solved, especially those who are three years old and are practically deprived of the use of state support related to rehabilitator, dentist, foreign aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Asenova. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Asenova, the draft decree of the Council of Ministers for amendment and supplement of the Regulation on medical expertise, which will change the starting points for assessment of permanently reduced performance, the type and extent of damage in percentage, as well as provisions related to the expertise of temporary incapacity. In the preparation of these changes are taken into account the proposals received by the organizations of people with disabilities, including those of the "Life with Down Syndrome" Foundation included in the section concerning genetic anomalies. The amendments to the Ordinance will be published for public consultations on the website of the Ministry of Health and the Public Consultation Portal of the Council of Ministers in short terms. The Ministry of Health takes account of the good interaction between public authorities and the non-governmental sector as an important priority. In this case, we will rely on all stakeholders in the process of public discussion of the proposed draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? This time Mrs. Slavova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, colleagues! I cannot deny that I am pleased with your answer, Mr. Minister. My only additional question is: what does short-term mean because last September or October, your replacement, Mrs. Nacheva, said the same thing in a short time? Citing the Action Plan for the implementation of the final recommendations made by the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted in early February by the Council of Ministers, you have a reform of medical expertise and the expertise of workability, which was also a recommendation of the UN Committee. There, the term you have recorded in the Council of Ministers is 2026. I had prepared many examples that I am sure you are familiar with the latest TelK decisions of children and older people suffering from Down syndrome, but my specific question is: what does it mean in short terms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Slavova. Mr. Minister, you can answer the question in your asshole. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Slavova, the short term is written in the Law. When an act goes up for public consultation, there is a legal deadline that will be respected, and, of course, after the legal deadline expires, it will be submitted to the Council of Ministers where to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to you is from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Valentina Naydenova about the fate of the Department of Infectious Diseases at the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment Dr. Kiro Popov., Karlovo, and the policy of the Ministry of Health to preserve the activities of infectious wards in municipal hospitals. Mrs. Naydenova, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In November 2020 at the Hospital "Dr. Kiro Popov" in Karlovo, the town of Karlovo was made................................................................................................................................................................ Although the latter at this time does not face significant financial difficulties, however, this reorganisation does not solve a number of problems accumulated over time, such as additional staff loads, acute lack of personnel, leaving staff, mental and physical overload, stress and others. Dear Minister, our questions to you are as follows: first of all, what will be the fate of the Department of Infectious Diseases at the Hospital Dr. Kiro Popov., Karlovo, and how will the needs of the citizens of the municipality of Karlovo be met in the future and the neighbouring municipalities of medical care for infectious diseases according to the National Health Card be met? And the second question: what is the policy of the Ministry of Health for preserving the activities of infectious wards in municipal hospitals, as well as preparing medical staff for work in them, as part of the national health policy?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u193	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, I assume you know that the hospital in Karlovo is a municipal hospital. I hope your first question will be directed to the mayor of the municipality and to the director of the medical establishment. The state during the serious phase of the pandemic at the end of last year clearly and categorically expressed its consent by requesting the release of the manager of the medical establishment, but this did not happen as the owner of the hospital is the Municipality. We continue to argue that there are problems at the hospital that are at management level, and they can be overcome by changing the management of the hospital. Regarding your specific questions. Due to the increase in the number of beds for treatment of patients with COVID-19 from 41 to 47 in the hospital in Karlovo with the order of the director of RZI Plovdiv, the ward is rebased on the IV floor in the main building. The reason for the replanting is the lack of sufficient staff for two separate structures. This, of course, is carried out by restructuring hospital beds in a department of internal diseases and a department of nervous diseases. Due to disagreement with the structural changes mentioned on 12 November 2020, doctors in the infectious ward did not appear to be working. There is an urgent new schedule for the work of doctors, which includes all doctors from the nervous system, the internal disease department, the pediatrics department, the anesthesiology and intensive care department and the obstetrics and gynecology department. In connection with the epidemic situation and the latest order of the director of RZI Plovdiv, at the Hospital of Kiro Popov, town of Karlovo, 35 beds were found for treatment of moderate cases of patients with COVID-19. By letter from the manager of the medical institution RZI Plovdiv, it was informed that Dr. Milusheva, a specialist in infectious diseases and head of the Infectious Diseases Department, was released from office from 3 February following three months' notice of exit. I open a clamp to say that during the pandemic the situation was extremely complicated and the state through the regional governor of Plovdiv did everything necessary to provide the required number of medical specialists, such as medical students, interns-medicians, who would join the battle on equal footing with the colleagues who are in this hospital. From the provided establishment schedule of the Infectious Diseases Department as of February 10th as a temporary performer of the post of Head of Staff, Dr. Petrov was appointed a specialist in anesthesiology and intensive treatment. 19 doctors, 16 nurses, 9 nurses from all wards of the hospital are included in the schedule for work for February, which are seconded 10 days to the Infectious Diseases Department. After the release of Dr. Milusheva on a civil contract was appointed Dr. Kazakova a specialist in infectious diseases, who will work in the ward twice a week. The Department of Infectious Diseases has not ceased its activity and 21 patients with moderate cavities of COVID-19 have currently been hospitalized. With regard to your second question about the policy of the Ministry of Health, I would like to tell you that the Covid-19 pandemic, in addition to rearranging our priorities, has shown us the reality in our country in the sector. This is precisely why we directed the efforts of the whole country in terms of subsidization and of municipal medical institutions under Decree No 3, and from 1 August last year the amount by which the overall subsidy was increased was 30 million by 6 million from August to the end of the year. For this year, the amount to be received by municipal medical institutions amounts to 44 million under Regulation No 3. The clinical pathways for the treatment of patients with CIVID in infectious structures were also increased in a 104 path; of course, the clinical path 39 was increased, and there was added a code for the treatment of patients with COVID diseases. 2.3 million will go to 10 municipal hospitals in the country, which have built and registered infectious structures for maintaining 70% capacity. According to REACT-EU, the so-called COVID recovery funds to be used by the European funds, infrastructure improvements and equipment provision, 37 million will be allocated to municipal hospitals for construction works of 60 million for the country and 23 million for equipment of 37 million for the country under this financing mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u194	Thank you, dear Minister. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I can't disagree with everything you have said that has actually been done so far. I'd rather add something that maybe you're missing, and for us it's very important. Colleagues, there's something that seems to have gone unnoticed and still unappreciated by the many problems with COVID-19. This is the update of the medical standard of infectious diseases in December of the previous year. True, a small step, but important, because the circle of persons engaged in professional activity in the specialty has expanded. In infectious clinics and wards can now work a doctor without a specialty or a resident in infectious diseases, as well as a doctor with another acquired specialty of what you said was done not only in Karlovo. This unties the hands of managers and directors of medical institutions and enables them to cope with extreme situations. The standard requires, I quote: The Infectious Clinic or Department must always be prepared and prepared for immediate response and handling in epidemic situations. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we are making you a very serious proposal, albeit towards the end of the term of office, but I think it is very relevant to discuss the possibility of changing the method of financing their activities in infectious clinics and wards. That way we can be sure that the case of the infectious ward in the Karlov hospital will not happen again. Moreover, the standard is extremely important, and the consequences of an epidemic are extremely severe in both personal and public terms. We are putting the proposal, although your mandate will be short, but you can consider it together with the financiers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. A hole, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, the policy that leads our country in the sector.................... must be sustainable, must be consistent and must be predictable. When we talk about changing funding in principle, we need to make it clear that this is an extremely new change, so to call it a new direction to give in the course of a global pandemic. It's not good for me, I'd even say it's unreasonable. When you say change funding in general, you have to tell me exactly what you're offering me as a specific. I will answer you.. at the moment the funding of these structures is carried out by two mechanisms. The first mechanism is under the National Health Insurance Fund with the financing of clinical trail activities. The second is from the state in various forms........................................................................................................ Let us not forget that 50 million were granted at the end of last year. BGN, which were distributed to more than 50 hospitals in the country, which maintained capacity, readiness and treated patients - more than 50% of the bed employment in the respective hospitals, of which 37 were again more than half of the municipal structures. So we are talking about double funding and government funding, and under the Fund through the National Health Insurance Fund. I don't understand what kind of extra funding, another way we could talk. I expect you to give me your proposal in the specifics of course we will discuss it. The important thing is that Bulgarian citizens should be calm and deal successfully with this global pandemic at the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u198	Thank you, dear Minister. That concludes the questions to Minister Angelov. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on compliance with the road safety standards of the renovated in 2019. A 10-kilometer stretch between the villages of Pustrovo "Surnevets" "United from third-class road III-608, part of the Republican road network of Bulgaria." Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question to you is for a third-class road, part of the Republican road network of Bulgaria A complete replacement of the road surface was carried out on this section. The renovation starts at 2.5 million. lv. and is executed under a contract for ongoing repair and maintenance of the Republican road network in Stara Zagora region. We have even witnessed the thank-you letters from the residents of the villages of Synie and Sernevets to the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Regional Road Administration of Stara Zagora for this repair. And probably rightly so, because the renovation improved the connectivity between their settlements and their relationship with the municipal and district center. Today, however, a year and a half later, these same people, the residents of the settlements in question, and not only they, wonder why there is no marking and road signs on the repair area and claim that this is the cause of several catastrophes. They also wonder why, after sampling from the section in question, holes have been opened, which in most cases are still incomplete and are a prerequisite for the destruction of the road. The questions to you, Madam Minister, are: why is there no horizontal road marking? Now, this may sound nasty to you, but these are some kind of white lines that separate one canvas from the other, and determine if it can be overtaken, it can't be overtaken and so on. There is also a vertical road signal missing, road signs will not talk about their importance. Is the Project intended for such an alarm and why it has not been executed? By what act was it adopted and put into service the repair section in question? Is there any failure to restore the road surface after sampling? And perhaps the most important question: do you think that the renovated 10-km stretch between the villages of Pistrovo
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u200	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! In 2019 was performed a complete re-assalization of 10 km from Republican road III-608, Trastrovo According to the approved additional assignment, the activities were carried out by the United States of America, a contractor for maintenance, preventive, ongoing, winter and repair works in emergency situations on the Republican roads in the territory of Stara Zagora region, with the value of the repair activities being 2 million. $450,000. BGN 051. with VAT. The activities include: pavement cutting, alignment of areas on the existing base with suitable material and laying of two layers of asphalt concrete, excavation to shape earth trenches, filling of banquets. Only on a stretch of 64 m long between the village of Surnevets and the village of Syniet due to major failures was performed local repairs. The activities carried out through the current repair and maintenance shall be accepted by signing a certificate of actual and accepted repair works and shall not require the acceptance and commissioning of the site, as required by the Construction Act on the territory. For the entire section of road III, 608, horizontal marking and installation of road signs are planned. These two activities will be implemented under two different contracts. The marking has been awarded during this month and the deadline for implementation under favorable climatic conditions is 28 February 2021. For installation of road signs is approved job and already entrusted to the company "Mykoni" Ltd, contractor in the contract for installation of road signs. As regards the condition of the pavement, I inform you that the samples taken and the results of the tests taken for the density of the nut, the degree of sealing of the asphalt layers and the thickness of the asphalt floor meet the requirements of the technical specification. According to information provided by the Road Infrastructure Agency, the drilling holes that you referred to in your question left after sampling are filled and the road pavement is currently in very good condition without violations. To conclude, I would like to point out that by laying down the horizontal marking and installing the road signs, the activities planned by the Road Infrastructure Agency will complete the overall improvement of the operational status of the section of road III 608. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u202	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! What you said in your answer, 95% people know it, including I know it, because I'm dealing with this problem. However, again, without wanting to be nasty, I will tell you: you are trying to make this management an emblem of your management of the construction of highways and roads, but it is not in your hands. Can you answer us from the National Assembly's stand that we have launched a section for which we have paid two and a half million, and a year and a half after that there is no road marking.! Well, I don't accept it. If you think it's normal, just say it out of the stands and say it's normal and that's how we work. Otherwise, the thank-you letter of the residents of the two villages is in front of me and they say: All residents of the villages of United and Surnevets, the municipality of Bratya Daskalovi, Stara Zagora District, express to you a great.Thank you!............................. It's nice to have such thank-you notes, but when the job is done. When work is done, there may be a small detail of all the work not done, but it marks the whole good deed. I was present at the opening of the road and I was impressed that there was no marking, but people were so happy that I said to myself, "I'm sure they'll put it on tomorrow, they're in a hurry to release the precinct to make people happy." But a year and a half is a hell of a long time, first. And that with the holes in the samples, people say that there are filled part of the holes, but there's a lot of them that aren't filled. I believe that whoever reported that the work was done has done a check, but I will also be on my way to see if all the holes are really clogged or, as the people of these settlements claim, there are some of them standing still to this day. And they will be a prerequisite to destroy the road as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u204	Thank you. It's a hole, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, I think people see the efforts made by the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On the entire Republican road network in the state for both the repair and rehabilitation of the road network and the construction of new sections and highway sections to close the highway ring. Yes, there is a delay in bearing the road marking, the installation of the road signs. You're right, this shouldn't happen. I said earlier in my reply that the delay was the result of different contracts. The current repairs are carried out by one company, the installation of road signs and the marking by two other different companies with which the Agency has contracts. I hope that people will enjoy this road section with health and opportunity with the common efforts of the Ministry, of the Agency to improve the state of the entire road network in Bulgaria. Our efforts are to cover the entire Republican road network. We are looking for all kinds of funding options from both the state budget and European funds so that we can improve the state and safety of the road infrastructure in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u206	Thank you. Question from the MP Stefan Burgeev concerning the poor condition of third-class road III-1307 in Pleven region, Iskar municipality. Mr. Burgeev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u207	Dear Mr. Hristov, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! In connection with numerous signals and complaints to me by the residents of Iskar municipality, I would like to ask a question about the third-class road III 1307, part of the Republican road network on the territory of Pleven district. This is about the following: this section has a length of 13.4 km and passes through three settlements of the village of Stavertsi, the village of Staroseltsi and the town of Iskar, located in the municipality of Iskar. The problem is very big and people have already come to an impasse after many years of suffering and problems with this road. In the two villages are closed schools and kindergartens, the transport is carried out by school buses to the municipal center Iskar, huge is the traffic of TIRs and heavy goods trucks that come from Kozloduy, Lom, Vidin, Oryahovo, who are trying to get out on the first-class road Sofia Ruse. Why is there so much traffic in heavy goods cars? Because the road is shorter and avoid the posts of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The road is extremely overgrown, it is impossible to get away and creates great difficulties... mentally, physically and of any nature when a bus and truck are detected, for example, there are extremely many falls and holes in it. The appeal through me to all interested people, plus the bus line that connects all these settlements to the district center of Pleven, passes from there when they need more quality and more specialized healthcare care, the problem is cruel and the appeal is to take really serious and timely measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u208	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Burgeev, the third-class roads in the country have a total length of 11 thousand and 800 km, most of which are in unsatisfactory condition. This is statistics I have also exported from the National Assembly stands. Since their construction, a long period of time has passed and their maintenance, as well as their main renovation, is linked to a significant financial resource. The sources so far are two directions to the state budget and European programmes. Over the years, with limited resources, the funds are primarily targeted in the busy directions, but this does not in any case mean that the importance of the third-class road network is underestimated because it has a leading role for small settlements in the different regions. Last year alone, the certified costs of third-class roads throughout the country for ongoing repairs and maintenance and preventive repairs are about 150 million. lv. Apart from that, more than 140 km of third-class roads totaling about 131 million have been renovated under the Operational Program. lv. This is only for 2020. We continue with the careful planning of the budget for 2021, and the aim is to phase out the third-class roads in appropriate repair programmes so that in a few years we can achieve a full update. Specifically for Republican Road III-1307 Iskar BGN 226. Laying asphalt layers in large areas, aligning banquets, improving drainage, shaping earth gutters, repairing a large bridge over the river Iskar, with old dilation joints replaced with new ones. For the third-rate time Iskar "Old-selves" "Stavertsi" and this year we will continue to take care of through the Program for Current Repair and Maintenance, and the activities will be planned in appropriate weather conditions and according to the available financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u210	Thank you. The line, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u211	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Two thirds of your line was statistics. This is about a particular problem in a particular municipality. That is why you are a minister, there is a huge resource of people with expertise in your ministry, which can deal with more diligent, more competent, and more timely such problems, which are complex problems. Here we are talking about a particular problem in the given municipality and settlements, but the lack of adequate care and planning for the second time and the colleague before me so answered the weather conditions do not allow or when they allow, will be done. Well, the idea is exactly in these winter months, in the periods of fog in the Danube plain, as is the local area and municipality, because of these seasons that do not allow it to be done, it must be done and secured what people pay taxes and fees for. I understand that always, and foregrounds, in relation to infrastructure in Pleven region in an identical way you answer me - statistics two-thirds of your answer, then any kindness, goodwill and ultimately no problem. Especially for Pleven region, I must tell you that we will not remember you as Minister of Regional Development and your predecessor Nikolay Nankov. I'm telling you this very responsiblely.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u212	No personal address, Mr. Burgeev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u213	I don't see what the problem is. Enough with the censorship you've been putting on all week.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u214	There's no censorship. Just please don't turn around.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u215	No, I didn't say anything wrong, and I'm saying it very responsibly, because before that, I've asked a lot of questions identical to this one. How one didn't find a partial solution. We're talking about a segment of 13/4 kilometers here. There's someone to do the numbers. There's a whole army of clerks in a big ministry, which is what the regional minister doesn't need. The Minister must give and implement some decisions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u216	Thank you, and I... A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Burgeev, yes, the funds are not enough. You know how much money the Road Infrastructure Agency has available in the budget for 2021. This forces us to prioritize and plan carefully the sections that will be repaired in 2021 or 2022. Allow me to disagree with your findings that Pleven district has never had the attention of the Road Infrastructure Agency and that there has never been anything there about improving road infrastructure. I will remind you of several sites that are realized by seven of the Operational Program "Regions in growth" "Pleven" road from 13 to 25 km, and the length in the district of Pleven is 11 km. From the 17th road to the Red coast "Chomakovtsi" 9 km are on the territory of Pleven district. According to the Programme "Bulgaria" "Romania" a major repair of the road "Gulyantsi" "Dolna Metropolitan" from 14 to 24 km "9,364 km is the road; 40% implementation. Objects included in the Design Program, development of an extended project for the southeast bypass of the town of Pleven. Objects implemented through the Programme "Current repair and maintenance" Lukovit "Red Beach" "Knezha "Oryahovo" 14 km, and in March 2021 is the deadline for completion of the activities. Road III-305 Krushovitsa I know that in all Bulgaria and in all settlements, I am also from Northwestern Bulgaria, there are road sections that need repair and rehabilitation urgently. My desire as a minister and the desire of colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency is to have the opportunity to make major repairs and complete replanting of the roads in Bulgaria everywhere. The fact is that this is not going to happen in a year, so we are trying to work in all areas of Bulgaria and where a certain road section is prioritized to make complete repairs. In the rest of the road sections we have to do current repairs and maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u218	Thank you. The next question to Minister Avramova is again by Mr. Burgeev about the poor condition of third-class road III-1308.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u219	Dear Mr. Hristov, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! My arguments about my second question, which I'm going to ask now, are roughly identical, because this segment of nearly 16 km for this third-class road is an extension of the segment that was the subject of my question just now. However, the difference is that in addition to heavy goods trucks, trucks and poor condition of the road it concerns the town of Iskar, the village of Pizarovo and the village of Gorni Dubnik. Where the first-class road Sofia begins, Varna, the situation is also alarming, there is also huge intensive traffic and how to explain to these people. I take your argument a little bit. Yes, state resources are not endless. Yeah, opportunities aren't endless. Yeah, it takes a long time. How about 15 more years? Because everything is declarative and everything is well-meaning and it needs more time and the season hasn't come and so on. The point is that these problems, this resource, which scatters and squanders and the percentages that disappear from funding various state, European programmes in terms of road infrastructure, affect the quality and quantity of solved problems. How, on the other hand, to explain to people, because we need to understand them, too, those citizens who are in constant mental and physical stress, which influences the health system and everything else, that they pay solidarity taxes and fees to collect and increase the budget for road reconstruction and have to wait, and there are still other reasons to accept. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u220	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Here you are, Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Burgeev, thank you for understanding. You are a MP, you vote on the State Budget Act and thank you for understanding that there is no way to make major repairs anywhere in the whole country, on the entire Republican road network, which is already over 20,000 km. I also understand your concern about the third-class roads in Pleven, as is the third-class road III-1308 Iskar. The length of the section is 14,135 km and it is indeed in an unsatisfactory state, which contributes to the poor restoration of the road pavement in the village of Pizarovo. There's a new plumbing built there. The restoration of the excavation site for the laying of the new plumbing has not been done qualitatively. There are constant falls in the area of implementation of the activities for the plumbing, which requires the constant excavation and replacement of the reverse embankment, and putting on a new broken-stone flooring so that we can seal the terrain and make a new asphalt layer. The road is being cared for under the Program for Current Repair and Maintenance and in 2020 the patching of road pavement, cutting of shrubs for better visibility is implemented. At the end of last year, the Agency commissioned local repairs of areas with subsidences on road III-1308, which included removal of the old pavement and part of the road construction, pouring new broken stone, laying new asphalt layers, and repair activities are about 38 000 лв. A machine patching of large areas of the pavement is envisaged and the work of the site will continue during this year. Good weather conditions are used and during the winter period were used to work on the route, but we will continue with the patching activities. In conclusion, I would like to point out again that the Road Infrastructure Agency is also looking for funding opportunities for the third-class road network. The main funds that have been used by the "Regions in growth" programme are precisely for the third-class road network, and you are giving me an excuse to have a conversation with the "road infrastructure" agency about the traffic on this road section, which you can imagine traveling there absolutely free of charge, and the third-class roads are not sized for such traffic, as you have quoted as loading along this road section. So we will look for opportunities to solve this problem as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u222	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Line, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u223	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! I am pleased, despite the emotional debate that we have had on these two issues, that I still very much liked what you caught from my thesis that this is a complex system of regional development and road infrastructure. At least with a slightly more competent, more focused and more responsible action some of the problems can be solved. I consider this a commitment from you. I think that you are responsible enough to carry it out, to order the system to take quick and adequate measures, because again the sense of injustice prevails in this case That is, if we would solve a good step and ask for a specific commitment to the two issues that I have put, they are relevant. To see responsibility and I do not want people in these two municipalities to think that they are politically abandoned and ignored. You know exactly what I'm talking about. Thirdly, I would like to say, just now in the hundreds in the first question that I asked you, you mentioned road III-305, which is not on the subject, but I very much hope that after putting me over five or six times on this issue this will happen, as you stated here as a commitment your planning for the road to be rehabilitated and ready or to start, I do not remember in September 2021. This will be something that will be remembered and taken into account by the voters and your constituents. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u224	Thank you. Hole, Mrs. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u225	Thank you. Dear Mr. Burgeev, we continue our efforts for the third-class road network, important for small settlements. I strongly disagree, of course, with your finding that there is a political element in prioritizing the road sections that enter the Program on the Current Repair and Maintenance of the Republican Road Network of the Road Infrastructure Agency. If you make your statistics, you will find that there is no such dependence and that there are no political reasons and political arguments in any way affecting planning in the Road Infrastructure Agency. On the contrary, throughout the country, throughout the entire Republican road network we are trying to maintain it in a good operational state, such as where it is most necessary to look for opportunities for complete repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u226	Thank you. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev to Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. The question is about the stage of the construction of natural gas interconnectors between Bulgaria and neighbouring countries. You have the floor, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On numerous occasions, Madam Minister, you, the Prime Minister of the Republic, have declared that between building interconnections between our country and our neighbouring countries is one of our main priorities. I therefore consider it quite normal and natural at the end of the government's mandate to ask at what stage is the construction of these interconnectors? We know that this is about the connection between Bulgaria and Serbia and the connection between Bulgaria and Greece. I remind you that it has been repeatedly declared and stated that Bulgaria's connection to Serbia should have already been built. You know how much money has already been spent on two expired programming periods. The situation at the moment seems as follows: at the beginning of the year, the Executive Director of Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) announced that the tender procedures had begun. We are now starting the tender procedures at the end of the term of office, for Bulgaria's connection to Serbia. The situation with Bulgaria's connection is very interesting. There you know, you and the Prime Minister very often like to go filming. I tried to do a review in the media of these visits.... it is very difficult, one gets confused.. constantly thrown into space one kilometer, one route, one pipe is welded and the logic is lost. What has been done so far and when should it be put into service? And including the other day, you were there again. There the contract, you know, was signed on 10 October 2019. According to the term in this contract "18 months," April this year the relationship work should be completed. As far as I can tell from your recent statements with the Prime Minister, we're on our way to the end of the year. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, Madam Minister, the questions to you are: can we clearly and accurately get an answer as to what is the stage implementation of these relationships and when will the deadlines for their implementation be?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u228	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, you are right that a long time ago there has been talk in Bulgaria about building the interconnections with our neighbouring countries, but very long years no interconnection has been built. You missed one of the interconnectors with our neighbouring countries and this is the interconnector with Romania, which you know became a fact in November 2016. This was the first gas interconnection that the Bulgarian side has with its neighbouring side and this interconnector became a fact again in the mandate of Prime Minister Borisov's government in the previous government. As for the other very important projects, which actually give security of supply in relation to Bulgaria and not only to Bulgaria, but also to the whole region, these are extremely important priorities. They are a priority in our management programme, and I can proudly say to date that it is the government of Prime Minister Borisov that has done the most in this area. I have no recollection back in time, perhaps in the last 30 years, that one of the interconnections has been in fact. Regarding the interconnector Greece We, unlike other colleagues in the past, do not go and take pictures of these projects, but actually work. Interconnector Greece - Bulgaria became possible, you know, only with the political will, with the ambition, the desire of the Prime Minister, the government that these interconnectors are extremely important to us and we have to build them because this is in the interests of Bulgaria, in the interests of our security and in the interests of Bulgarian consumers, who will receive natural gas at competitive prices thanks to this infrastructure. So, the real part of the work of the interconnector Greece. Bulgaria started in December 2015. Then the final investment decision was signed and taken. From this period until now, an extremely important and difficult procedure has been carried out to ensure funding, because you know that such projects are taking a very serious resource. The Bulgarian Government provided a state guarantee of 110 million. EUR; from Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" 39 million were provided. EUR for this project, 45 million. EUR under the European Connectivity Programme. So all that had to be done in terms of funding, we did it. All public contracts related to the choice of the pipe manufacturer, the builder, the consultant engineer and the construction supervision were carried out. The contracts were subsequently signed and the real work began. Meanwhile, all actions related to the activities of the regulators of the Bulgarian and Greek were carried out. You know that this project is not only realized by a Bulgarian country, it is realized by a joint company in which 50% owns BEH and 50% owns a Greek-Italian company. This project is not only implemented by us, as the project is carried out in the territory of two countries. As a result of all these actions, many important documents were signed, agreements with regard to the financial sustainability of the project, you know, they were ratified by Parliament, and for that I thank you. By the way, yesterday we had an inspection of the interconnector Greece At present, a route of 170 km has been cleared from a total of 182 km of route on both territories, 128 km of pipes being distributed along the route, 101 km of welded pipes and from now on the activities of manual and machine welding in relation to this project. What we expect to happen as a realization of the project, yes, you are right, the contract had to end at the end of April 2021, but in view of the pandemic of COVID-19, and these are objective circumstances that cannot be foreseen either by the contracting entity or by the contractor. Thus, in view of this situation, the world pandemic of COVID-19 will undoubtedly require a change within this period, which cannot last longer than the end of 2021. This is with regard to this interconnection. As far as Bulgaria's interconnector is concerned, Serbia, you are absolutely right, this is an extremely important project. This project will ensure diversification of sources not only for Bulgaria, but also for the whole region, so this interconnector connection is also extremely important. You know that even further back in time this project is being moved by the Ministry of Energy, but for objective reasons, as the Ministry cannot be the operator of one such project, in October 2020, this project was transferred to the "Bulgartransgaz" as an operator, it immediately launched a public procurement procedure. But this project, like the interconnector Greece, is also being implemented in the territory of two countries, so that our Serbian partners also had to provide funding under their pre-project programmes, under their pre-accession programmes, so that the construction could go parallel. You know that when such a project is financed under an operational programme, the first and most important criterion to be met is sustainability of the project. In order for the project to be sustainable, there must be clarity in terms of its construction on one and the other territory. So according to the graphs that we have made and the plans that we have drawn up, this project must come to light at the end of 2022. We work actively and I hope with the common efforts of everyone that we can build these interconnectors and they will be for the benefit of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u230	Thank you. Mr. Boychev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, from your answer I understand the following: regarding the construction of the interconnection between Bulgaria and Serbia, we are in the situation where we were at the beginning of the mandate. I will not go back to how many meetings were held back in time between your colleagues from a Serbian country. You say the conditions for European funding, I told you: this is the third programming period that we start with this gas connection. In 2007 there was money planned, then was the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and then 2014 " 2021" is the next programme, now we are entering the third programming period for funding. For our listeners and viewers, I would like to say that the two projects that I ask you about are not any major engineering achievements. On the Serbian link 62 km is the route in the Bulgarian country after all and our part costs 72 million. Euros. So we're not talking about some giant engineering projects that we see around the world being built, Madam Minister. So, as far as Bulgaria is concerned, we are in the situation that we were in at the beginning of the mandate. And about that gas highway, as Prime Minister Borisov said, to which you say you are not filming yourself, but as many times as I saw reports on TV, you are always on such gas highways, there were even pictures painted on them, I recall. If this is how we carry out our infrastructure projects, it's pathetic and woeful for our country! We have now postponed the deadline from your response, I understand, for the end of 2021. You know that our country will lose a lot, because the Azeri gas that was negotiated had to be found in our transmission system since the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u232	Thank you, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u233	So, unfortunately, one of the main priorities in building these connections would not have this pride and opportunity to brag.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u234	It's a hole, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u235	You can't let the minister talk for six minutes and the public representative interrupt!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u236	Don't call from the spot, Mr. Ermenkov! If you wish, take a procedure, I will answer you within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, despite your comment, I am proud of what we have done because it is a real reason for pride. Well, we go to the gas highways just because we build them! He who builds, he walks and, of course, he takes pictures with them, otherwise things can't happen. Bulgaria's Interconnector is a project that will once again share that is implemented by two countries. It is not realized by the Bulgarian side. You know very well and I mentioned earlier that the main criterion here is the sustainability of these projects. On such a project we will very easily build 62 km. This is not a problem for us, but there must be reciprocal action on the other side in order for the project to be sustainable. The aim is not to have a pipe near the Bulgarian-Serb border, the question is that this gas infrastructure will work on it to pass gas. Only then does it make sense. Together with our Serbian partners, we work very actively and be sure that Bulgaria's interconnector will be a fact. The important thing is that Bulgaria is currently realizing its main priority to diversify the source of natural gas supply. As you know, since December 31st, although the interconnector of Bulgaria is not finished as infrastructure, we have succeeded on the existing network, owned by Bulgartransgaz............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I believe that this is really an extremely important event, a cause for joy and pride for every Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u238	Thank you. Again a question to Minister Petkova of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. It concerns the revision of the costs of state-owned companies in energy. You have the floor, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I assume that you have already understood what we are doing with colleague Tasco Ermenkov. We are moving on the priorities of your government's programme of operations, in this case part of the government, and we are reporting at the end of the mandate how they are implemented. That's why I'm moving on to the next one. One important priority for the Ministry of Energy is the revision of the costs of the energy companies, namely the TPP of Maritsa East 2 This is written in your program. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like you to answer: was this type of revision of the costs of energy companies made? What is the result of this revision? Accordingly, what are the measures taken, since at first reading the picture in energy is quite tragic? If I have to focus on just one company, since there is not much time, for example, the TPP - Maritsa East 2 - we see that in 2019 this is not over, but there are 202 million losses. If we have to sum up the debt, there's already over a billion and a half. There are constantly some financial exercises, one debt is exchanged for capital. Once BEH made this type of transformation, 600 million were recorded as capital. BEH keeps buying feeds. Last time I checked, there were 230 million people who bought emissions so the plant could work. If you try to look at the costs. a moment ago I talked about gas projects, but excuse me, I had a series of questions and finally did not understand how and how the investment program of Bulgartransgaz is spent because you know, and this company took one time nearly 500 million.. 487 million. EUR loan, is currently in the procedure for another 155 million. EUR loan and against this it says:.. for the investment programme.................................................................................................... What is the investment programme of the company is not clear because There is a desperate need for the publicity of energy costs made by energy companies. So my question is: what was done during this term for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u240	Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, control over the activities of the companies in state energy, and not only of the companies in state energy, is a commitment of the principle, which is not exercised once. It is in constant action, so to speak, which aims to check what the company's financial situation is, whether it respects the principles of efficient, efficient management of public resources accordingly. In this regard, you may recall that, as early as the end of 2016, we adopted and developed a special regulation that is related to the public disclosure and optimization of the costs of commercial companies by 50 and over 50 percent state or municipal participation in capital operating under the Energy Act. This regulation lays down the conditions and procedures for public disclosure and optimization of the costs of commercial companies within its scope, provided that conditions are necessary for the publicity and transparency of the costs incurred. As of 2016, companies falling within the scope of the Regulation are required to take measures to optimize costs when carrying out their activities with a view to achieving efficiency, efficiency and economy when spending these funds. On a quarterly basis, these companies provide the relevant information. If they are the companies within the Bulgarian Energy Holding, this information is disclosed on the website of the Ministry of Energy and any Bulgarian citizen can follow this information and draw their conclusions accordingly on what state the companies of state energy are in. Apart from this, under the Public Sector Internal Audit Act for the period 2017 to 2020, the Internal Audit Office of the Ministry of Energy carried out three audits of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and of the companies of the holding group. Audits are about the compliance of public procurement with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act, as well as the review and evaluation of the realised revenues and the costs incurred. However, as regards how companies are managed, what is the control in them, undoubtedly the biggest indicator of this is the financial results. I am now going to allow myself to make a brief retrospective, rather a comparison, what was the state of the art, because you only pointed out the Maritsa TPP East 2s, but it is nice to have all the full information so that we can draw the relevant conclusions. In 2014, the National Electricity Company realised a net loss of 586 million. 509 thousand. lv.. In 2020, the National Electricity Company reported a profit of 16 million from its activities. 659 thousand. lv. In 2014, the electricity system operator made a profit of 19 million. 633 thousand. lv. In 2020, the expected profit of the ESO is 55 million. 981,000. lv. In 2014 the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" made a profit of 78 million. lv. The company's profit was 277 million in 2020. 627 thousand. lv. Or the profit growth is at 199 million. 235 thousand. lv. In 2014 the company reported an improvement in the net financial result of its activities, while in 2014 the company accounted for a profit of 7 million. 151,000. BGN and at the end of 2020, the company made a profit of 42 million. 392 thousand. lv. In 2014, Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) reported a profit of 75 million. 690 thousand. As of 2020, Bulgartransgaz's financial result is a profit of 81 million. Three hundred and thirty-three On the level of BEH, the Group on a consolidated basis of the entire state energy, for 2014 reported the following financial results: 29 million. 503 thousand. lv. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 315 thousand. lv. Yes, only the TPP Maritsa East 2 and the Mini Maritsa East show negative financial results, but this is not the result of mismanagement. This is the result of objective factors that are happening outside of us. You know very well that the main reason here is the rise in carbon prices. This is the largest cost that the TPP Maritsa East 2s and not only the TPP Maritsa East 2s. I take this opportunity to thank the Bulgarian Parliament for the support it gave last year with its decision related to the TPP Maritsa East 2 and the plants from the Marishka Basin, because this is really extremely important for our energy security. So revisions are a good thing, checks are a good thing, but control is the commitment of management, management and I dare say that the Ministry of Energy, the Bulgarian Energy Holding exercise their powers and control companies so as to take account of these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u242	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Boychev, a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I see that you, as they say, have prepared yourself at the end of the term. Unfortunately, it will not be in your favor to take account of what has been achieved in energy, but this is yet to be established. My question was specific: have cost revisions been made in these companies, and what measures have been taken? You told me you did three tests at BEH. It was interesting to see, after all, these audits whether they have found anything, whether we have improved something in the management and work of these companies, because, you know, we have repeatedly exported a number of facts about the cost effectiveness You know that there is a comparison with other energy capacities of what type of costs are made in the state company and how I think they can be very optimized, and is anything done in this direction at all? This, unfortunately, and in your response and in all of the activities in these years.. four years of the mandate of this government, at least personally I did not notice in any way to seek optimization and improvement of expenditure in these sectors. Yes, you do. I claim that the report is, in general, not a single problem solved by the serious issues facing the Bulgarian energy sector, everything was postponed back in time. As much as possible, you know, we're running away from responsibility, back in time, to delay things, and at the moment we have some huge deficits in energy. I have given, you are quoting, I can quote so many more financial results and figures from which to see how we transfer from one company to another company one or another obligations and eventually some huge deficits will be inherited from your colleague, who will take the lead in energy and will not be able to solve these issues at all, given the four missed years for Bulgarian energy within the mandate of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u244	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. A hole, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Boychev, obviously we read the numbers differently. I've prepared myself well because I know what we've been doing for the last four years and the last six years. But from what we've found in 2014 and what we're leaving today, I think the numbers speak loud enough, and no political rhetoric can change the facts because they are what they are. It is certain that at present there is no deficit in the system. The deficit was generated in the National Electricity Company, and you remember that very well. The national electricity company has been brought to a state of technical bankruptcy. Let's not forget these facts. The national electricity company was at a loss of 586 million. lv. 2014 Today we are 2021 and for 2020. The national electricity company reports a positive financial result for the first time in a long time 16 million! This shows very clearly who turned the trend into energy and what happened. I can safely say that to the colleague who will come after me, I do not leave in any case the mines that were in the mandate when we took over with the government of Prime Minister Borisov, the energy in 2014. It's a huge inter-company debt, no one paid anything in the sector, you remember very well. The national electricity company, as a result of a decision of the former SEWRC, has accumulated almost 300 million deficits in just three months from a regulatory decision. So I'm relieved that we're leaving the sector in a financially stable state and we don't have the kind of bombs to bet on our colleagues after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u246	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Question from MP Tasco Ermenkov to Minister Petkova on the overall policy of the Ministry in the field of energy for the implementation of the priorities of GERB's management program in this area. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u247	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! At the beginning of this government's mandate in 2017, the following priorities of the government's management program of GERB were formulated, respectively, to your trusted ministry in the field of energy. The most important and first priority for the Ministry of Energy as part of the Governments Programme 2017 - 2021 was, I quote: Energy security through its own production. Continuing deep Black Sea studies by conducting a search and survey procedure and a block of the Black Sea. The second, most important priority for this government and the Ministry of Energy was, again, I quote: "Execution of the decision and recommendations of the European Commission in relation to the Maritsa East 1 The third, most important priority for this government and the Ministry of Energy was, I quote: The fourth, most important priority for this was the government and the Ministry of Energy, and I quote: Energy security by building interconnectors between Bulgaria and our neighbouring countries. The fifth, most important priority for this government, again, I quote, was: a comprehensive liberalisation of the electricity and gas market. My question, Madam Minister, which was essentially a question, but only because of a technical error, I hope there is still a question, is: what was the policy of the Ministry of Energy for the implementation of these priorities and, more importantly, are they implemented? By asking you not to make historical reminiscences, but to limit yourself in the period 2017 - 2021 for which your management programme is. Otherwise, if we're going to go back a lot, let's not remember who built the nuclear power plant, who built the power plants, and so on, and it won't be in your favor. Please, very please, in the period 2017 - 2021, are the priorities fulfilled and to what extent are they implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u248	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, thank you for this question, because it will enable us, albeit in the short limited time, to focus on the most important priorities of our management program and the results we have managed to achieve. As for the line you made, who built the power plants back in time? Well, the Bulgarian people built them. I think we're clear and clear there. As far as our management programme is concerned for the period 2017 - 2021, our most important priority is to ensure the country's energy security by diversifying the supply of energy resources. Here we can divide things in two directions. First, in terms of natural gas. You know very well that Bulgaria had neither an interconnection of gas until November 2016, I will allow myself to go outside 2017, but allow me to point out that this is, after all, an interconnection of gas, implemented again in the mandate of Prime Minister Borisov truely, in the previous government. I'm not going to do a retrospect any further, because there's just nothing to mention. So the first interconnector between Bulgaria and Romania has been a fact since November 2016. What else were we able to do? Other gas interconnections with Greece were also possible, an extremely important strategic project. I just had the opportunity to share on Mr. Boychev's question that this gas interconnection is extremely important and strategic not only for Bulgaria, but for the whole region as well. At the moment, it is moving in its final stage in terms of its construction and is expected by the end of 2021 the interconnector Greece Apart from that, Bulgaria participated in the acquisition of 20% of the company's capital, which builds Alexandroupolis' liquefied natural gas terminal. This is also an extremely important and historical solution for Bulgaria, as we will have ownership and will have access to various sources of natural gas supply through our participation in this terminal of Alexandroupolis. This will enable us to diversify supplies and Bulgaria, Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian businesses will have access to liquefied natural gas from the United States of America, from Qatar, from Israel, from various sources. On December 31st, the real diversification of the sources for the supply of natural gas to Bulgaria became a fact. The implementation of the Treaty with Azerbaijan for the supply of natural gas has begun, thus allowing, respectively, the price of natural gas for the first quarter of 2021, to be one of the lowest in Europe. These are facts and data that can be easily verified. Let's not forget the re-negotiation of the terms of the contract between "Gszprom" and "Bulgargaz" - also an undisputed success. On the basis of these negotiations, the formula for determining the price of natural gas for Bulgaria was changed. The infrastructure was built and expanded on the territory of the country from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serbian border. A project was also extremely important. Separately, a gas exchange has been built, since, since we have the necessary infrastructure, of course, we must also have the next element that is linked to having a natural gas trading exchange. The stock exchange is also a fact. That is, the liberalisation of the natural gas market is also a fact. With regard to nuclear power, we managed to successfully implement the program for the extension of the duration of the V and VI block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" by another 30 years. A licence was issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency in November 2017 and the duration of the operation of the V block was extended, in 2019 a licence was issued by the AYAR and the duration of the VI block was extended. The process of diversification of fresh nuclear fuel has also started successfully. On 4 February, we signed a contract for implementation of the second stage of the diversification process, implementation of the contract between NPP "Kozloduy" and "Westinghouse." So by July 2024, as is the road map that we have signed with both the European Supply Agency and our partners from "Westinghouse" Bulgaria must have a diversification of the fresh nuclear fuel. And something else very important on 1 January 2021 Bulgaria became a member, was accepted as an equal member of the Agency for Nuclear Energy to the OECD, which is an undeniable recognition for the development of Bulgarian nuclear energy, for the work of our plant and for the development of our nuclear energy. In terms of electricity production, the electricity system operator implements five projects which are projects of common interest, the value of which is 490 million. lv. All these projects are aimed at guaranteeing the country's energy security. The alliances with neighbouring markets with Romania are under way, with Greece, which will take place within a few months. So all that we have done was only in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. These are results that are a fact. And the most important thing is the financial stabilisation of the sector, which actually allows it to work normally, invest in new projects and be able to move forward successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u250	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, from the beginning of your reply I realized that before you the Bulgarian people had built the power plants, now they are being built by Boyko Borisov. Fine, let everyone know who is the builder of New Bulgaria. You told me what you were doing. I'm pretty sure you haven't stayed four years without doing anything in this ministry, you must have done something. In fact, you have succeeded in fulfilling one of your priorities in relation to the NPP, but it is such a priority that even your government could not fail. And as for the other priorities, what are the facts? Otherwise, there's a lot we can talk about what's done and when it's done. One priority for the entire period of four years you delayed the block competition for more than two years, which was supposedly a priority, then prepared it so that no one showed up and ended it. Unfulfilled priority. Priority number two "In four years you have done nothing to implement the decision and recommendations of the European Commission regarding the TPP Maritsa East 1 "..... Maritsa East 3....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Unfulfilled priority number two. Priority number three: nothing has been done on this issue. Moreover, the total unaccounted for continues, the TPP Maritza East 2s is continuing to sink, the mines continue to have a lot of money. You don't do anything. It was good that it was BSP, so it was also supported by the government to reach out to save the Martians because you were already on your way to liquidate them. Unfulfilled priority. Priority four - despite the ten shows on some route by the Prime Minister, four years later, there is not a single completed inter-connector for the period 2017 - 2021, which is why you returned to me by 2016. This is what you read last period. What are you reading now? Nothing! Unfulfilled priority. Priority number five: full liberalisation of the electricity and natural gas market is still a chimera. And good thing it's a chimera, 'cause otherwise it would've been pretty scary. Instead of liberalising electricity to reduce prices, you have made prices rise. No priority has been fulfilled. In short, the result of policies regarding your priorities is zero. This can only be classified as failure. Spoiled four years for these five priorities. Whatever you want to say, whatever numbers, the facts are that and you can't disprove them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u252	Thank you. It's a hole, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I understand that we are in an election situation, but nevertheless we must be objective and be able to recognise when something good happens for Bulgaria, say: yes, indeed what is done is good. There are certainly things that need to be done, but in energy, the things that need to be done are so much that let us leave something for the next colleagues. But keep in mind that what you have mentioned in relation to the priority relating to the two US power plants, you have a separate issue on this subject, so I will answer you very thoroughly in this direction as well. I'll answer that way, too. As for the search and exploration in the deep Black Sea. Mr. Ermenkov, why didn't you do something and start all these procedures? Let's remember when the search and survey procedure was launched in the deep Black Sea. I have no recollection before you or during your party's administration started such procedures. At present, the search and exploration in the deep Black Sea continues and, of course, hopefully the companies that are looking for and exploring will have good results. With regard to the rest of your conclusions, there is no interconnector in the period 2017 - 2020. Come on, tell me how many interconnectors exist between 1989 and now? Tell me, I may have forgotten or the Bulgarian citizens have forgotten too. Well, there aren't any, Mr. Ermenkov, so there's nothing to remember. That's right. So we can be proud of what we have done in energy. We have worked in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and what is done will remain. Fairy tales are good, I understand, elections are coming, but the facts are as they are, and they are in the interests of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u254	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Procedure in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u255	It will be a parliamentary control procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u257	Four sentences. I'm gonna have to ask you not to interrupt me. I won't take more than a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u258	I won't interrupt you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u259	I'm taking this procedure to save seven minutes of parliamentary time. You have witnessed how for two parliamentary controls Minister Petkova answered our questions related to the priorities of the GERB government in the field of energy, and you are now witnessing how questions and answers are passed and how the most specific questions for a priority are met or not, the answers were contradictory, but, unfortunately, far from the actual situation in the field of energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u260	Well, how can I not interrupt you, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u261	In this regard, Mr President, in order not to continue with the loss of parliamentary time with questions without answers, all the more so that everyone sees that the plants are working, NEK wants an increase in prices, I am talking to them about MI-1 and MI-3, I do not see the point in asking my second question. I withdraw it and give you the opportunity to continue parliamentary control with the next minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u263	Is he entitled to this procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u264	He's got a point. I accepted the arguments. [[Reply from Minister Temenuzhka Petkova.]] You're right, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, just because Mr. Ermenkov gave up the answer means we did our job and he just doesn't want to hear what the results are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u266	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I take it the same way, but we continue with a question to Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. He will answer a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova about the massive violation of transport schemes in bus transport. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova. Thank you, Mrs. Petkova, for participating in parliamentary control today.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u267	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister Zhelyazkov, my question is full of concern. Why? First of all, I watched the carriers at their discretion, perhaps with a solution, not everywhere, the municipal councils stopped the transport between the settlements and the municipal centers. Then this practice started repeating between cities, between district cities and, perhaps, I am greatly impressed by the transport network, district cities and Sofia, and Sofia in a different direction. I have repeatedly asked myself this question: the funds that are in the budget, as opportunities to be financed part of the lines. The commentary of the carriers was: "There are no travelers. " The commentary of the people living in the different settlements: "Us are leaving us in isolation. Life becomes more precious to us. There are settlements where once a bus travels, there are municipal centers where they travel two or three times, and with a very big surprise I understand from the frequent bus ride by Sofia, that at its sole discretion one of the carriers has stopped some of its lines. I'm interested in this, is the Ministry of Transport arbitering? Do you know about this, is there any list, what's the condition? Since people are waiting, the Minister of Transport for them is something very important and significant, to inform them about transport schemes, violations and who is sanctioning this violation, as they are still being held by competitions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u269	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Yankova, in relation to the declared emergency situation, the cessation of school sessions, the cessation of a large part of the activities and the growing risk of contamination of the population with COVID-19, which led to a drastic decline in the airport, bus transport has proved to be one of the most affected sectors of the economy in the current crisis. By making efforts to secure transport for the population in view of the contracts concluded with municipalities, contracting entities, carriers face a real threat of bankruptcy and the bankruptcy of companies. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Most of the bus lines do not fall within the scope of the subsidised public budget, as subsidies are granted only for urban transport, for transport in border and mountain low-population areas. In the situation of a pandemic, even companies receiving subsidies cannot cover a minimum of their current costs. Thus, the revenues received from the provision of the service of public passenger transport do not allow covering costs arising from the public service obligation, which is included in the contracts concluded with the municipalities of transport entities. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications paid nearly 30 million. lv. through direct provision under the Programme "Support for small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in bus and coach transport" to overcome the economic consequences of the COVID-19 through the implementation of a support scheme by the Ministry. The funds for compensation and subsidies for road transport provided for in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 were increased by 9 million compared to the previous year. BGN, with compensation of 47 million. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Despite the government's efforts, respectively of the Ministry, the anti-epidemic situation has been extended by the Minister of Health's order until 30 April this year. Transport companies do not generate the revenues needed for the activity and the funds provided will be spent very quickly, and the companies will again be unable to carry out their activities. In view of the above and in relation to letters received both from branch associations in the field of bus and coach transport, as well as from district and municipal administrations, the Ministry has made recommendations to regional managers and local self-government and local administration within the framework of its functional competence and in the maximum use of their control powers and administrative capacity to take temporary measures to update transport schemes, in case of necessity, taking into account the specific specificity and data of the relevant area under the conditions of the COVID-19 pandemic. Each received an alert relating to an terminated transport service shall be checked by the authorities of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration of the Ministry in accordance with their control powers. If I may, in addition, the amendment of the Road Transport Act recently introduced inter-region schemes. These inter-blast schemes are first introduced. They allow for travel between settlements within two neighbouring areas, without the need, as it was at the moment, to reach the centre of the area. If we take into account so far, until the adoption of these amendments to the Law, from Sofia to Rudartsi, it was necessary to travel from Sofia to Pernik and from Pernik to Rudartsi. The amendment now enables the so-called inter-region schemes to be made between two neighbouring areas within a populated area to a populated area. This enables the Republican transport scheme to be optimized in order to clearly define unfair competition, which is obtained by mixing individual transport schemes and their implementation, given that contracting entities are the mayors of individual municipalities. The public discussion has now expired on the amendments to Regulation No 2 on transport schemes for public transport by buses and, as soon as possible, this will be a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u270	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u271	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Zhelyazkov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! My anxiety has increased, Mr. Minister, by this. Carriers are one to lose in times of crisis, there is a problem. Where are the Bulgarian citizens? Did you really know that in their sole discretion, part of the carriers release small buses with 16 to 20 people in them, they are crowded. There I ask: does the health that we protect citizens, these transports and buses meet the conditions? If you were to get from Rudozem or from Zlatograd on a bus with 16 people, to travel for 5 hours and it was full, and it was small, from 16 to 20 people. We have a huge problem. I know that in the campaign to come, this will probably be debated, too, but you run a ministry where there are good experts. Turn to them to seek a solution. Under the Budget Act, our parliamentary group was proposing an increase in funds, and we could be there, and you could increase those funds to support carriers in other ways. There's a huge problem. I don't know when you went to the Central Bus Station. Do you know how many cases work there right now? During the day two, and in the evening after 5 p.m. One. Something heavy, very scary. After all, this also concerns the portfolio of the Bulgarian, it is becoming poorer. He will travel by bus, by God, by modern buses and by regulation. That's why today I'm alarming from this tribune there's a problem with transport schemes, not all mayors... There's been a violation of the laws after you've played a contest, you can't order a letter, even if you're a minister, to make it work. We didn't sign anything on this occasion in the Emergency Status Act. That's why it's a huge problem. Put him in charge of much more experts looking for a solution. I know it won't be easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u273	Mrs. Yankova, I think I mentioned two or three times, and you know very well that contracting entities in public transport contracts are the mayors of municipalities. The problem is not that the buses are not moving, but the problem is that there is no one to ride in these buses. In other words, the company's own revenues are decreasing. The State cannot completely replace consumer demand and be the passenger to pay for this service. Those are the carrier's concerns. In fact, we are solidarity with both the contractors of the contract and with the problems that would arise if this public service was not provided. On the other hand, and in the legislation in force, the commitment of the State is related to urban transport, related to the mountainous remote and weakly populated areas. Where carriers voluntarily give up where the transport scheme is violated within the meaning of the Treaties have all the powers as party to the same. I hope that the contracts concluded for the award of public contracts have and contain sanctions clauses to equalise this balance of fairness in terms of contractual relations. On the other hand, mayors need to start thinking in a slightly more flexible way, this is my opinion, which gives them the opportunity to make public transport contracts longer-term available in the form of concession. The current public procurement contracts, especially in the perspective of one, up to two years, do not attract any of the carriers in view that there is no possibility of generating their own revenue. A longer concession period, which allows for greater capital planning and operating costs may be a more flexible form for municipalities to attract transport undertakings. In this regard, the support that we have provided to the carriers took advantage of around 600 undertakings carrying out bus and coach transport, and this public service was timely and accounted for as such. Together in the Committee on Transport with all our colleagues, we have managed to achieve this significant increase, and in a not-light period for both the budget and the proceeds for 2021, so I think this will be one of the forms of solidarity with the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-19.u274	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for participating in parliamentary control today. This was also the last question of parliamentary control. Next regular plenary sitting on 24 February 2021 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
