ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u1	Good morning, colleagues! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I will read you the distributed bills that entered on 20 April 2021: A bill to supplement the Customs Act. Importers "suppliers" Hristo Ivanov and Nadezhda Yordanova. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Law on the insolvency of natural persons. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Consumer Protection Act. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is leading, supporting the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Popov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Due to the extremely important agenda and the decisions to be adopted, I propose that today's plenary session be broadcast directly on BNT 1 and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u3	Are there any MPs who disagree with this proposal? I won't. Voting mode. They voted 178 MPs: 174, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I'm asking for a direct transmission. Mr. Shalamanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u4	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will read a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Bulgaria. For three days now, and properly, our focus has been on a species of crisis, the state of finance, the readiness of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, a review of the governance that has sparked protests and a clear vote for change. Equally important are freedom, independence, the security of Bulgaria with a look forward. The government launched a review of the national security system in January 2019, but there is still no satisfactory debate in parliament tabled by the prime minister with a 2030 vision. Our statement is on the preparation of a political framework of the National Assembly for participation in the upcoming NATO summits, the summits in the form of B9, the three seas and the presidency of the process of defence ministers' meetings in Southeast Europe. In the next three months there are important events in the field of foreign policy, defence and security. A NATO Summit is held in mid-June, which will adopt a mandate to update or develop a new strategic concept of NATO by 2030. The discussion will focus on serious issues in the development of the security environment, especially in the Black Sea region, the growing risks of the Kremlin's aggressive policy, the role of technology, cybersecurity, hybrid threats and other important issues related to climate change and China's rise. In May, the President of the B9 Summit is due to participate. These are the countries from the eastern flank of NATO from Estonia to Bulgaria, in Bucharest, and in July is the summit of the initiative "Three Seas" in Sofia, which is chaired and households from Bulgaria and is a really small Plan "Marchal" for Eastern Europe. Bulgaria is to take over the process of meeting the defence ministers in Southeast Europe for the next two years. This imposes a clear framework for Parliament to participate in these processes, which is currently absent. It is possible that the parliament is not active in May July, without a decision of the parliament and without a mandate, there will be participation of Bulgarian delegations with newly elected ministers or ministers from the caretaker government, which would not be good for presenting Bulgaria's vision in these important areas. That is why we believe that in the upcoming two or three parliamentary weeks, it is important that Parliament adopt a clear political framework for the participation of the Bulgarian delegations led by the President in these important events. At present, the foreign policy and defence committees have not been established. In this regard, representatives of the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria"....................................................................................... 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for preparation of the meetings and Presidency on the main positions prepared on the agenda for the participation of the President and Ministers, and on this basis we will propose a decision of the Parliament. We are addressing all parliamentary groups to support these efforts and to reach agreement in parliament on the mandate for Bulgaria's participation in these three summits and our role as chairman of the process of meeting the defence ministers in Southeast Europe. In addition, the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" is very concerned about the deployment of significant Russian military forces along the borders with Ukraine and the territory of the Crimean Peninsula, illegally annexed by Russia, as well as the introduction of restrictions in shipping and airspace. As a Black Sea country for Bulgaria, it is particularly disturbing that these large-scale movements of the Russian army are carried out without prior notification, as required by the procedures of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. We call on the government to work actively on a bilateral basis in NATO and the European Union in order for Russia to put an end to these provocations, and we reaffirm our full support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. On this matter, we have submitted a request to the Prime Minister. Last but not least, we express concern about the scope and level of the Russian spy network announced by the Prosecutor's Office in the Ministry of Defence, Parliament and insist the Prime Minister to present to the Parliament, if necessary at a closed session, his assessment of the Russian Federation's network of influence in the executive and security authorities, as well as in the administration of parliament, as well as the measures taken for immediate limitation and elimination in a foreseeable period of time of national security risks arising from the deep penetration of these networks in the Bulgarian state. This is particularly important in the context of the Czech Prime Minister's declaration of a diversion on their territory, including related to a Bulgarian citizen on the poisoning investigation, of which there is still no clarity, but there is a reasonable assumption that it is related to the suspects in the Czech Republic and to the poisoning with Novicok in Solsbury, Great Britain, when the Bulgarian government has practically distinguished itself from the reactions of all members of NATO and the European Union. Madam President, colleagues! We're gonna work 'cause parliament is gonna look forward. A 2030 vision is needed, especially on foreign policy, defence, security, technology and innovation. Citizens do not want more than that, they want radical change, they want freedom, legality and modernisation. Change requires vision, leadership, team, willpower, courage, responsibility. We cannot change Bulgaria at the expectation of citizens if we look only in the rear-view mirror and use only the brake. It's time to use the steering wheel and the throttle, it's time to have foreign policy and defence committees, because the world hasn't stopped and the Earth keeps spinning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u5	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I have a procedural proposal with the clear thought that as a Member of the National Assembly at this very moment I have no right to do so, but Madam President can. This is to put on the agenda a draft decision for the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry, if possible for tomorrow's agenda for establishing and verifying the legality of the construction of all sites located on the territory of the Lesopark of Rosenets, Burgas Municipality, as well as all actions taken from the summer of last year by representatives of the political forces and employees of NSO. If you want, we can bring it in tomorrow. I suppose it will be adopted by a large majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. I think it is good that this proposal should be supported, given the development of the situation with art. 99 of the Constitution, so I suggest we vote on this procedural proposal to include a item on the agenda. Mr. Hristo Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u8	Thank you. Madam Chairman, I also died on Mr. Bikov. There are two proposals for committees, and if it is to be included, I propose that both be included so that they can be considered. Isn't it still better to be united in a Legal Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u9	It's through commissioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u10	As you will see, Madam President, simply include both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, okay. I make a commitment to both proposals to be put on the agenda if the National Assembly takes this decision and tomorrow to discuss the establishment of such a temporary committee. Please note that the voting regime is in agreement with the procedural proposals so made for inclusion as an item on the agenda for our Friday meeting. Vote 189 MPs: 185 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I suggest that we gather at the Chairman's Council tomorrow morning to discuss whether to be the first point for Friday or the last, given that several electoral codes and Law on political parties will be seen. Any other procedural suggestions? I won't. We continue with our work programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CONCESSION OF CONCESSIONS, THE SALE OF STATE AND GENERAL PATIENTS AND RECOGNITIONS IN THE STATE'S ADMINISTRATION, REGULATORY ORGALATORY AUTHORITIES, AND THE SUPPLEMENTARY WITH MORE THAN 50% STATE PARTICIPATION. INSTALENTS "CORNELIA NINOVA" AND A GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. AND PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PUT MORATORIUM ON DEFINITELY ACTS OF THE MINISTER COUNCIL IN THE DEPARTMENT. INSTITUTES "MAYA MANOVAL" AND PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs to present the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Committee on Legal Affairs of the National Assembly shall have the following: STATEMENT on a draft decision imposing a moratorium on the granting of concessions, the sale of public and municipal hospitals and the appointments in the state administration, regulatory authorities and undertakings with more than 50% State participation, No 154-02-13, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2021 and a draft decision imposing a moratorium on certain actions of the Council of Ministers in resignation, No 154-02-14, submitted by Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2021. At its meeting held on 21 April 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Draft Decision imposing a moratorium on the granting of concessions, the sale of state and municipal hospitals and the appointments to state administration, regulatory authorities and undertakings with more than 50% State participation, No 154-02-13, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2021 and Draft Decision imposing a moratorium on certain actions of the Council of Ministers in resignation, No 154-02-14, submitted by Maya Bozidarova Manolova-Naidenova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2021. The draft decision was presented by Mr. Philip Popov and Mrs. Maya Manolova, who pointed out that the main purpose of the proposed draft decision for imposing a moratorium was to protect state and public interests. Following the discussion of the draft decisions, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council, without the opposite of the Court and 2 votes, adopted a draft decision imposing a moratorium on the granting of concessions, the sale of state and municipal hospitals and the appointments in the state administration, the regulatory authorities and undertakings with more than 50% State participation, No 154-02-13, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2021; with 13 votes for the appointments in the State Administration, without the opposition and the abstention, adopted a draft decision imposing a moratorium on certain actions of the Council of Ministers in resignation, No 154-02-14, submitted by Maya Bozidarova Manolova-Nidenova and a group of national representatives on 19 April 2021 and with 16 votes for the Council of Ministers in resignation, without the Council of Ministers in resignation, No 154-02-14, submitted to the National Assembly: Project! DECISION imposing a moratorium on certain actions The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. It imposes a moratorium on the following actions: (a) the award of concessions, including the determination of concession remuneration; (b) granting permissions to search and study or to study underground riches; (c) the taking and granting of State loans within the meaning of the State Debt Act; (d) changes in the composition of the management and control bodies of public public undertakings, public hospital care establishments and other companies with more than 50 percent State participation in capital, as well as the choice or appointment of other management or control bodies; (e) carrying out management transactions in real estate in state hospital care facilities; (f) the choice or appointment of persons holding senior public positions within the meaning of art. 6 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property; (g) appointments to the public administration. 2. The Moratorium is due until the election of a new Council of Ministers or the appointment of a caretaker government.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u13	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Are the importers willing to present their projects, Mrs. Manolova, Mrs. Ninova? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! We have spoken a lot about this moratorium, but I would like to repeat the arguments again and try to correct the mistakes. First of all, why did we propose it? Because our goal is the model of management GERB and Borisov to be changed to the full, not just by putting GERB in isolation, not to be able to form a government and Borisov not to be a prime minister. Because the second and third levels of government in the country remain the same and remain theirs. The second level of power can be very helpful for a change, but it can also very hardly sabotage it. First argument. And second, the real making of elections is made by these people, the second level of power: chiefs of agencies, of offices, of forestry farms. Whatever wonderful Election Code to do, if we do not change down the management model of GERB, they will sabotage any transparent and honest choice. That was our goal, proposing the moratorium. What did you get? The new political entities in the National Assembly and the DPS rejected this proposal. That's your decision. We do not interfere in other parties' decisions, but we will not allow you to throw on BSP words such as: The BSP sabotaged the common anti-GERB front, it was unconstitutional to sign up in a joint decision with revision, would have prevented the verification of transactions and the revision of politics in the last 4 or 10 years. Ridiculous allegations! Acquittal! It is very interesting that you directed these arrows against BSP instead of our common opponent GERB, which you allegedly declared before the elections that you want to change from power. But I say again: these are your decisions, we just stick to the truth and hear it all Bulgarian citizens. What happened in the meantime while you were looking for guilt in BSP instead of power? As we have already submitted data, the entire energy sector is under control. Yesterday we released data on mastering and digging in agriculture. Today I will present to you the third series, facts and evidence that you allowed the model Borisov to dig into more sectors. These days are replaced the manuals of 65 hospitals across the country: Stara Zagora, Vratsa, Shumen, Sofia, Lovech, I can list them all. Sixty-five hospitals have new guidelines! I'm only opening one clamp. If you are true to your promises before the elections that you want hospitals not to be commercial companies, which we have long wanted, imagine what will confront you as a lobby and as a reluctance, after the management of all hospitals in the state will face this. This reform will not be blocked because of our pointless arguments who will lead the father's company! So I'm moving on! Of these 65 hospitals in 58, there was only one candidate, no competitions, no competitions! One! Predestined and chosen! In the other seven, there were two, of which one was refused in advance. And the reaction isn't late. You must have received such a huge petition from doctors, professors, nurses and nurses at the hospital. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is about Dr. Korukov. Others will follow, but it is too late, because these competitions have also been held 65 hospitals, which means almost all state and municipal healthcare is under control. We hear arguments from the people we need to think about must be reasonable because they don't know. And you say, "What do they want from BSP? A new government will replace them and quickly resolve the problem?" Because here, the group before me adopted a Law on Public Enterprises, in which they prepared things so that these people could not be touched. Do you know the conditions under which any new government can change them? The application for an exemption shall be submitted; objective inability to carry out their duties for 6 months; conviction of a deliberate criminal offence of general nature; the case may last for seven years; incompatibility with the requirements of art. 20 "All meet the requirements of art. 20 for this is designed; a serious violation or systematic failure to comply with the duties, how it is established and for how long; and death. So, tell me, what next government can touch anyone without the court reinstating it? Nobody! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That is why we insisted so much on this moratorium being adopted in time! If you had supported us a week ago, we could have prevented some of these events. I'm just telling you to think about it. When you decide that your main opponent is BSP, not the Borisov model, which you announced before the elections. And I will finish again with the words that I said yesterday: "Words many, disputes many of this tribune, deeds must be done! You're too late with the cases! " - Hopefully we can fix this! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. From the importers Mrs. Manolova, do you want the floor? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, stand up! There is a proposal to impose a moratorium on authorising transactions, concessions, contracts, borrowings and other actions of an order from the Council of Ministers in resignation, as well as on appointments to public undertakings and public administration. This was necessary because after the parliamentary elections held on April 4th, the cabinet "Borisov 3" resigned really shocking steps and giving out concessions for underground wealth, construction materials and beaches, but also continued to distribute money with decisions of the Council of Ministers, with ministerial decrees to continue contracts through the conclusion of anexes to them. In recent months, the appointments on both the boards of public enterprises and the entire state administration have indeed broken a certain record. In practice, the government has become a commission on labour development and labour-building, not only at the highest levels on the boards of state-owned public enterprises, but also in the entire state administration. Here. [[shows]] , a very vague reference to the competitions that have started in the last month, shows that there are 71 pieces of recent weeks that have started at different levels in the administration. All of this, the waste of public money and their targeting to certain economic entities in the period of timelessness between two governments, the appointments both in regulators and at high levels on board, but also in the lower levels of administration, should be stopped because it is immoral because it is unfair to Bulgarian citizens. Because it is also unfair to the civil servants themselves, who see these processes of moving important to GERB staff from different levels, the Deputy Minister becomes head of administration, the head of the department becomes head of department, the head of department takes the place of some expert a really ugly and unpleasant carousel on which the National Assembly should put a point. That is why we proposed our Project for a solution, so yesterday in the Committee on Legal Affairs, it was us from. There is such a people and we have insisted that the two projects be adopted and that of BSP and the one that we have proposed. But I propose speculation about who wants to impose a moratorium on transactions and appointments of power and who is against stopping. I'm just suggesting that at least the speculation in this room should stop. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the media, everyone can interpret the facts as beneficial to their party structure. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But if we're going to stick to the facts, let's remember...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u17	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u18	...let us recall that not a week ago and not 10 days ago, but last Friday by the parliamentary group of the Left were proposed two options. The Stenogram can be viewed on the website of the National Assembly. Two options! Option one: The immediate imposition of a moratorium with an oral decision read in the Committee on Revision and the separate submission of a draft moratorium which we made on Monday. Now I will not comment, there are constitutionalists here, what was the quality of this decision and whether it belonged to the Committee on Revision. This is like including in the Labour Code texts from the Armed Forces Act, for example, which would have mined the Revision Commission, which would have been subject to a constitutional attack and the decision in question. That's the facts. But in addition, a huge part of the appointments to the state administration and the boards have already happened and we at.. Straighten up! We propose, instead of here, to argue about who was first, who was second and who wanted us to take action to restore justice. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So we don't just talk, we act. Yesterday, we introduced a bill to medical facilities. There we take the first step from turning medical establishments from commercial companies into enterprises. The first step is by removing them from the Public Enterprises Act, giving the Minister of Health the opportunity to start new competitions, including in ISUL. I'm using this case to announce from this tribune that we from Stand up! We have heard, read the insistences of doctors and sisters from ISUL and have taken action to restore justice by bringing changes to the law, because this appointment was finalized even before the forty-fiveth National Assembly, so we act. Today we will also bring amendments to the Public Enterprises Act to enable all these appointments of party ladybugs at the high levels of state enterprises [[GERB lines]] , public undertakings, regulators and bodies to be revised by the next ministers concerned.................................................................................................. Because now, through the changes that the forty-fourth Parliament has adopted and through the Rules of Implementation of the Law on Public Enterprises, a contest cannot be appealed even by those involved in it. We're offering judicial review. We propose that the court rule on all controversial appointments and give the opportunity, untie the hands of the next regular or service ministers to start these controversial competitions, which outraged the Bulgarian citizens again, publicly, transparently, respectfully, in order for employees, people with qualities, people with biographies, experts to take these positions and the court to rule. So we have made the relevant proposals. It is proposed by the President of the Legal Commission a good draft for imposing a moratorium on the government and the other ministries and on the withdrawal of loans, a concrete one, with a term that can be voted on by the National Assembly and which will impose a moratorium on all transactions of the Council of Ministers and other ministries, and on the withdrawal of loans, not only the transfer of concessions, and on the spending of public money and the continuation of contracts for the period until a new government is formed, because we believe it is fair. All the competitions that have ended so far and until the forty-fiveth parliament will be revised by the next ministers. We're giving them this opportunity through legal changes. I'm saying what we're importing, let's make it clear from this tribune. These contests will be held publicly, transparently and subject to judicial review, because now you have assigned your staff and no one can even object. It's done, but it won't be done. We also propose to include in the moratorium the transactions in any property carried out in the period between the two national meetings...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u19	Mrs. Manolova, time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u20	...in order to preserve the public interest and the sense of justice of the people that in front of their eyes they are doing outrage without the reaction of the people's representation to stop. So we're doing it. Those who really want the cancellation of the contests can support our bills for medical institutions and public enterprises. [[Applause from ISV and ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Honourable Members, since there are two draft decisions, the Commission has united around one general opinion. I suggest that we debate on the joint draft decision and proposals, if you have any, make them on it. Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Tsonev gave the first sign. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group will support the joint draft moratorium submitted by the Legal Commission. However, on the occasion of the discussion that has been going on since Friday, I would like to say a few things so that there is no speculation. Of course there will be, we are aware, but from this tribune, let everyone make their position clear, and speculation is now a matter of personal choice. Firstly, I reaffirm that the main goal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and its parliamentary group is to remove GERB from power. Secondly, we believe that this cannot be done in the way the Bulgarian Parliament has functioned so far and with the methods that GERB used and their partners. We do not think that we should do unconstitutional or on the edge of the Constitution things. We do not believe that we will adopt laws with transitional and final provisions to change six laws. We do not believe that in order to remove GERB from power, we will have to change with transitional and final provisions of the budget for this year's budget for last year. We do not intend to use these methods. We believe that we should all restore parliamentary, constitutionalism and uphold the law, as is the letter and the spirit of the law. We cannot agree that because of procedures that are taking place, we must make urgent decisions because we know that there is another way to build what we do not want to exist with a change in the relevant law. Yeah, slow down, yeah, harder, but fairer. And if we want to give an example that we want a change, this change should start here in this room. Would you like us to start by doing the same thing with transitional and final provisions, imposing a dictation, doing whatever we want? Of course we can change these appointments, of course we can remove the incompetent from power, of course we can change any law, including the Public Enterprises Act, if we feel that this is necessary. It's going to take longer, but, again, it's going to be more honest and it's going to be more correct. Do I need to remind you now, there are lawyers, and very good lawyers, in this House, how will you interpret Constitutional Court Decision 22 of 2013? Are you going to interpret it in a single way? The Constitutional Court Decision No 22 of 2013 is to repeal such a moratorium. 2013 I think it is, if I am not mistaken, but not to argue about the year, and it is for the annulment of a moratorium imposed by the National Assembly for the annulment of a constitutional right given to the executive. And the main motive is that the balance between the authorities is violated when the legislature with a moratorium takes power from the executive. This moratorium takes power of the executive power. Once again, the Constitutional Court has abolished such a moratorium. I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not gonna argue with the lawyers. There may be another interpretation, but I ask the question: could there be such an interpretation that this is a change in the balance of the authorities and that it is incorrect? That's all I'm asking. It is obvious that there may be such an interpretation. Then what gives you the right to believe that this moratorium is absolutely flawlessly proposed and it is constitutional? Well, let's do this because it's in the energy sector or because it's somewhere else. I agree that this model needs to be broken down. Our parliamentary group has declared it. I agree that it needs to be done in the best possible way, and the best possible way is to respect the Constitution and comply with the relevant laws. I could, of course, comment on whether Friday's decision so proposed as a point in a decision to set up a temporary committee... I'm smiling because it's so funny. You know, to take executive rights from a constitutional point of view not even with a deliberate decision of parliament, but with some point in a decision to set up a temporary committee of inquiry, and hence the conclusion that we are sabotaging the degradation of GERB-power. This is not serious. I leave it to the conscience of those who do. I won't take any more attitude. Our parliamentary group will no longer address such speculative issues. However, the question remains that we should return to the right path. We can do what the voters want us to do to change it in the right way by respecting the Constitution and the laws, if this goes any slower. We will support this decision with these arguments, questions and conventions. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Svilenski, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsonev, it is very easy to say that you are against GERB when GERB has already been deposed and for four years you supported them. Four years you said there shouldn't be early elections. Four years before each New Year we heard Bulgaria was not ready for another government. Four years you wanted a union, a unity around something.. unclear about what, and you said that GERB should continue to rule. Now that they lost the elections, you very easily went to the other side of the room and they were given the opportunity to manage for four years, again with your support probably. So you have to be correct. About the offer. When we suggested it on Friday, you came to us angry and didn't talk about an unconstitutional solution. You have talked about other things that will stop the process in the state, that on Wednesday there is a meeting of the Council of Ministers. This is the Minister of Energy. He'll tell us what they did yesterday. I don't know what they've done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u25	Why aren't you ashamed of lying?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u26	Here, you're gonna make me an asshole. We were all here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u27	Please don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u28	So we need to be a little more honest than this tribune. Indeed, talking is one thing, but it must be done, and the action is done by voting and by pressing the buttons. Now, even if we make that decision, both Mrs. Manolova and Mrs. Ninova told you what will happen next, that is, what will not follow, because it is too late for everything you are trying to explain that it must happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u29	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, this wasn't just some committee. This was a committee for revision of the past management of GERB. The National Assembly, in order to request such a commission, has concerns that there have been any violations. And it is quite logical in the decision to set up this committee to find a place and the decision to impose a moratorium, that is, the National Assembly is doubting the normal management of the state and therefore wants to put a moratorium on the appointments. And if this were done, we wouldn't be talking today about dozens of law-changing appointments to fix these appointments and so on and so forth. I see that the point of reference is constitutionality, whether or not this decision is in line with the Constitution. I think you're not a constitutional judge to determine whether or not it fits the Constitution. If you have any doubt that it is contrary to the Constitution, the relevant complaint may be lodged and the Constitutional Court will rule. But we were obliged, in such an extraordinary state as the state is in, to try to deter these political appointments and this digging of GERB. And to me, since it's still a line and I have to ask you a question, I'm very interested in you to answer how many of these appointments are on the DPS and, for example, Mr. Peevsky's personally? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. For the third line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My line is about the constitutionality of the proposed moratorium. Yesterday there was a debate in the Legal Committee and in the consolidated decision there were 10 votes for....................... and without......................................................................... The debate yesterday in the Legal Committee included the issue of constitutionality. I myself have pointed out precisely this Decision No 6 of 2014 as a basis that we must be particularly careful when introducing a moratorium with a decision of the National Assembly, because the Constitutional Court has set very clear requirements which must be met by the moratoriums introduced. These are requirements for proportionality, necessity, legitimate purpose and temporaryity. In this regard, the initially proposed decision of Mrs. Ninova and BSP did not meet those requirements set by the Constitutional Court, which led us to unite in one of the two decisions, because in the decision proposed by Mrs. Manolova, there were much more detailed assumptions and temporaryity. It is in this regard that I believe that the draft decision on the introduction of a moratorium is in line with... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] It is a line on constitutionality because this was the issue raised. In this regard, I believe that the new draft meets the requirements laid down by the Constitutional Court in Decision No 6 of 2014, which is with rapporteur Judge Rumen Nenkov. However, I have to express my position that "Democratic Bulgaria" believes that the rule of law should be governed by common laws, by rules adopted by law and not by moratoriums.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u33	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u34	It's an extraordinary tool for a very short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u35	Mr. Tsonev, would you like a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u36	Thank you, Madame Chairman, for the opportunity to make a duplicate. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Retire Minister! Mr. Slavov, thank you for your clarification. I'm not a member of the Legal Commission, I didn't know about the dispute there, but he's in the direction that I said I wasn't a lawyer, I'm not a constitutionalist, I'm just asking questions in the Chamber and we got some very good answer in my opinion. That's my answer to Mr. Mirchev's line. The appointments of DPS and Peevski are zero in these decisions. That's my other answer to his question. Of course, I can do the answer another way, but this time I will refrain. As they say, I'm giving you a little bonus in the tone. Mr. Svilensky, we've been saying for four years that early parliamentary elections will produce what these have now produced. Here's the proof. Can we have an office? Are we going to set up an office? Are we going to break down a model that doesn't like society? Are we walking? [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u37	Please, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u38	Mr. Svilensky is a magician, a fortune teller of the summer. I don't know if you're a political scientist, are you a magician, are you a fortune teller, are you a prophet? We say that it will be reproduced that there is no willingness to form a majority that goes in the direction in which the country needs a majority, which is agreed, to be united around a common platform, a common vision for reforms and a common vision for accelerated economic growth. This is what we see now in this National Assembly, and I fear that after the next parliamentary elections there will be the same result until the political parties and their parliamentary groups begin to have talks without the burden we have so far. We don't speak to each other in this Parliament either. Yesterday I had the opportunity to say: no conversations are held on the stage or behind the scenes and this is a problem. There should be talks between the parliamentary groups and between the political parties. That's what the DPS has been saying for four years. Without dialogue, we will not move a step further than what has been happening in the last ten years. And the speeches from this tribune continue to be in the direction of mining dialogue, blaming dialogue. So what we've said, we stand firm behind it. The evidence is in front of you today. One more topic. What I said there when I came to Mr. Svilensky with Mrs. Nino, I never said the words you said. That was a lie. All I said was that, as the decision was written, the moratorium would cover the office. And it's true that he was going to cover the office. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u39	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u40	Dear Bulgarian citizens, what you see in the new parliament is the old backstage with new faces. Listen to the arguments. The other day the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria was unconstitutional because we restrict the rights of the executive power given to them by the Constitution. Today it is no longer unconstitutional with the new proposal, which increases the cases with which the National Assembly restricts the executive power and will support it. So last week is unconstitutional because we want three restrictions or four. Today it is no longer unconstitutional, because another seven new contracts worth more than 1 million are added. BGN, taking and providing government loans and so on. This, apart from illogical, is a very funny attempt to conceal the truth, which I now want to say with my face here and in front of the entire Bulgarian people. The other day, in front of all the cameras and in front of the management of the BSP, there was an arrogant and insolent conversation with me in the sense: withdraw this proposal, we will support you in a week because there are several public contracts and several concessions on beaches. I quote Yordan Tsonev. [[Radio, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I stand with my face in front of the entire Bulgarian people and have witnesses to the whole leadership of the party. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u41	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u42	Because he was so outraged that he allowed himself to do it in front of the whole front row, and I'm sure that if you get your cameras back, you'll see my reaction and the terrible scandal that took place within three minutes, in which a scandal I told him: "Who are you gonna say what the BSP is gonna do? You can command in your group, but not in the Bulgarian Socialist Party! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Bulgarian citizens, fifth year we declare that we do not want to be part of this backstage and fifth year we prove it to you. We're proving it to you now. All the arguments about any procedural violations, about some unconstitutionality, they have disproved themselves by declaring that they will now support this proposal. Today! After the concession took off at Sofia airport after 12 new concessions for underground wealth were given in two weeks after I mastered energy, after I mastered agriculture, after I mastered health care, and tomorrow I will give you facts about mastering even the culture of theaters, Chitalishtes, libraries. Everything's been replaced. So what now? Someone will come out here and pretend to be a moral and constitutional specialist who uttered three sentences the other day: wait a minute, there are several beaches; wait a minute, you will break the big public procurement; and yes, the third one was so difficult and the service office. It was, that sentence was there, but Mr. Tsonev saved the other two. Good thing you were in front of everyone, or you probably wouldn't have believed me. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u44	It's a personal explanation! Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u45	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I stand before you and I strongly state to you that I have not spoken such words. [[Radio, laughter.]] At least I wouldn't dare tell Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u46	Eye-to-eye!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u47	The words I said were related to the office. They were related to what I spoke today from this tribune. I'm not surprised at what's happening. And who are you? I was told when I came down here in the sharp tone of voice, from the stands, I said that it came to me here to scold us from this tribune. [[shows]] She said to me, "Who are you to speak to me like that?"..because from this stand I said that now and immediately there is only home. In the Bulgarian Parliament now and immediately there is none. That was the real argument. But I'm not surprised by Mrs. Ninova's words. It's not just my assessment of what's going on out there. It's not just my assessment of what's going on out of opposition, out of fierce opposition, out of 50 to 100 votes, and by 50 to 100 MPs is the evaluation of people for this party and their leader.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Mikhailov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable gentlemen Vice-Presidents and honourable Minister! I'm sorry that for some reason the emotion got into our souls again. This meeting was going pretty well at the beginning, and yesterday was quite rational at my discretion. I want to address those who speak one thing, but do not realize that there will be another. What do I mean? Indeed, the moratorium proposed on Friday, including regarding medical facilities, Mrs Manolova, would have missed some appointments already, but would have prevented many others in other areas of life. It was unnecessary for me to enter into Mr. Tsonev's terminology, he is an experienced lawyer, but it seems a little unworthy now, in such a situation in the country, to comment on whether it is constitutional. There's an institution that can comment on it, but that could have happened. Since you asked the question of health care, I would like to give you two or three words under this law that passed last fall. Here is my esteemed friend Professor Gorchev and I hope in politics we are opposers, but to the truth we are friends. Those who were in this room in the previous parliament remember what outrage GERB had imposed with this law to prevent doctors working in hospitals from being in the management bodies of hospitals. The heads of the largest 10 hospitals in the country to be elected by the Agency for Public Enterprises, which is an absolute nonsense an Agency that has nothing to do with health care to do with it! We took four months at first, accepted at second reading, there were a number of protests from municipal hospitals, from district hospitals! Finally, they royally swept all of them away from saying what they did and changed the Law again after three months. But they allowed the other thing that one of our colleagues read to you to be alive forever, the elected directors can't be touched! Now I turn to my colleagues from.. Straighten up such a people.. There is such a people. good. [[Laughter]] Well, in emotions, you see, I united you! I united you in some way, and that makes sense! [[Applause from IHN.]] I hope I won't cause any negative emotions, but rather good-natured sage. [[Happy tidings.]] There are some things that are being said here about how slowly, but honestly we will carry out a reform and we will remove an exhausted governing formation from power. At the same time, all the public moods, colleagues from the "There is such a people" are being driven, either by the fact that there will be no government. If there will be no government, the service does not have such powers, it is here that various prophets prophesy that the same situation will be reproduced. What are we leading the state to? This is where the whole people watch us on TV! [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] What are we taking her to? To repeat the same results?! To combat?! To concrete those who ruined whole sectors of life in Bulgaria, not just in health care?! Anything else? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, health care ruined him! I say this with all my responsibility as a professor who grew up from junior assistant to director of the most technological hospital! You ruined him! You've ruined him in 10 years! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, as Bulgarians not as politicians, a great journalist said here that the political class in Bulgaria has not yet been built. As Bulgarians I ask you to think very seriously. It's a double-edged knife. An election drill is a double-edged knife! Bulgarians don't need this! The Bulgarians need a government that will give them hope, will solve their health crisis problems, will return them to summer season, will not fail tourism, will make adjustments in education, health care! But not with bills that someday perhaps somewhere will be passed by some majority that we have here. In this regard, our political opponents are right. We are 165 people against them clearly against them, against their not ideology, but a way of ruling! I'm not talking about ideology. I don't know if they have ideology. [[GERB-SDS lines]] But a way of ruling! And not being able to realize in management means there is really a serious problem and the nation will not forgive us this problem! This is what I would like to say in front of the entire Chamber on my own behalf with great concern and that health issues with bills that will not pass in one existing month National Assembly will not pass! It will not pass, and the Election Code will not pass in this way! [[Reply.]] It's just not gonna happen. Think about it, fellow Members. The fate of the entire nation is in the hands of this House. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. - What's the line? Mr. Yordanov, come in for a line. A statement or a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u51	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u52	Are there any other lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u53	I have a line, too. Okay, if you want, first line, then I can make a statement. Whatever you say. [[Happy tidings.]] I can unite them and save you some time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u54	Mr. Yordanov, there are procedures. Mr. Mihailov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u55	No, I want a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u56	Okay, let's see if there are any other lines. Are there any other lines on Mr. Mihailov's statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u57	If you're gonna play with procedures, we could be wasting a lot of time. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u58	Are there any other lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u59	I'd like to make a brief statement, please take it as a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u60	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u61	We of the "There is such a people" will support the proposed moratorium. This one first. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Secondly, some Members here are dying to stay in this Parliament at any cost, whatever it may be. Whether there will be a office, whether we will return the mandate, or make a government, you will see very soon. I'm going to finish with a brief piece of advice to a former classmate of mine who's the leader of a party. When a person starts talking just like that politically, without any connection to reality, it's nice to make his statement within two or three minutes, because then no one listens to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u62	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Yordanov's lines? I won't. Mr. Babikan, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The dispute in the direction in which it went for a moratorium, which was clearly proposed and approved by the Commission, began to seem futile. It began to look like the dispute between the narrow and broad socialists in a vineyard, whether it will go on an evolutionary or revolutionary path. Come on, please, let's stop with the revolutionary path, because we remember how this exercise ended last time. Let's not prove who's the bigger opposition, who at what time, what date he said. While the dispute between the narrow and the broad, finally came a Ukrainian front and passed on the road. Let's stop this argument and do our job. We're starting to look funny. We don't need to look like this. I can also stand here and say: Eh, nice oppositionists from the hall, and in the summer we also offered you to leave the hall and not to play the role of opposition to GERB! [[Applause from ISV and ICN.]] Yes, we offered you to all the media in Bulgaria. And not who heard that line on some corner of parliament, but we said it there in the square. Anybody come out? Because the hypothesis could have been, if it had been, it would not have been valid in politics! It is valid in other genres. Mr. Yordanov is more familiar with them than I am with them because they are artists, but not in politics. In politics, it's what happened. Let's get back to reality and do our job. Thank you. [[Applause from ISV and ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u64	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Mr. Babikan's lines? I won't. Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we have not actually just been to the protests every day, we have not just supported them without, however, trying to party them and thus suffocating them and destroying them. We were there every day. But we left this National Assembly twice before anyone even talked about it being exhausted. We were the first to say that it was harmful to Bulgaria; the first to leave it, and the first to announce that we should all join together as soon as possible against the GERB model. Then you weren't there either. Much later you went out and we were there too. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Get to the point. I see nothing wrong with admitting a mistake and saying: yes, we should have supported BSP when it was time to prevent these appointments. The damage to the state is obvious and it is unnecessary to say: " Have we told you, but we have told you and everything we have told you has happened. You could have supported us. The arguments from a constitutional point of view are unnecessary. The truth is that from a constitutional point of view, the moratorium is vulnerable to both this one and the previous one. But this is the work of the Constitutional Court, and it will rule when this National Assembly may be in history. The fact would have been that these appointments wouldn't have happened. They really wouldn't have happened. This dispute is now unnecessary because, while we are leading it, Borisov is probably laughing at us. Two things have become clear today. I would like to draw attention to one aspect of what is the damage behind statehood? Not all of them are ladybirds, there must be good experts there, there must be people doing their job conscientiously. How do they work in this environment when they know that some are currently concreteizing them for some purpose, others are coming with the backhoe to remove them from there by law?! How do these people work from here on out?! This absurdity that gives birth to this assembly, how does it affect the state?! We could have saved it last week. It's a fact. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I don't think there's anything funny about the coworkers across the street seeing them smiling. But there's something else that this debate has shown, and I've seen it several times in this room. Do you notice GERB taking part in the debate? Aren't they supposed to be assigned to them? Where in this case are GERB? This reminds me of the debate on the preferential vote when GERB suggested that it be cancelled, only the DPS defended the proposal from the stand. Now it's the same thing. The only grumpy ones who look like they're DPS denying it. It's natural they have some appointments. This is circumstantial evidence of the backstage management model of the state as it is now because of the new situation that someone is trying to make it different. This is proof that we need to act decisively and together against this model, to stop this debate from coming forward. We agree to recognise co-authority, even admit that another author, as long as it has an effect on the state, as long as it has an effect on Bulgarian citizens. This is what we intended last week, in this direction we will continue and call on you to do it for Bulgarian citizens and Bulgaria, not for our party interest. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u66	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! Something very disturbing is happening today and my line is to my colleague Bojankov, with all due respect, but she is also to all colleagues who have previously spoken about it in this direction. It is very dangerous when a Member of the National Assembly and even less colleague Bozhankov, who is a lawyer, comes out, makes proposals and defends proposals with a clear awareness that they are largely unconstitutional. Moreover, my colleague Bojankov, with all due respect, once again swore to defend the laws and Constitution of the National Assembly a few days ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u68	To the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u69	...which means that what you do is only populism and nothing more. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u70	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u71	It certainly has shown, my colleague, that you are not a lawyer because you are overly self-absorbed with words. Did you hear me say it was unconstitutional? I said he was as vulnerable as any decision of this National Assembly is vulnerable. And I remind you that this is the work of the Constitutional Court, and its decision will be valid for the future. . [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS]] The fact would have been that these appointments wouldn't have happened. The other is the work of the Constitutional Court and only a fellow non-jurist like you can afford a different interpretation. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u72	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Statements? Mr. Vassilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u73	Honourable Members, Madam President! Extremely interesting are the personal relations between BSP, DPS and GERB [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] But I don't understand why we're making this deeply personal? Bulgarian national television broadcasts live. Regarding Mr. Bojankov, I have only one comment. Mr. Bojankov, the leader of your party proposed two voting options last week. We abstained from voting on the moratorium in this form because of the extremely poor legal technique to be part of a draft committee and because of the extremely vague text of the moratorium. I strongly oppose Mrs Cornelia Ninova from the parliamentary group of the Parliament to burden the people of the National Assembly with political responsibility for the four working days of this National Assembly. There is such a people and there is a Democratic Bulgaria! The fact that you haven't managed these appointments in so many years, Mrs. Ninova, is your problem! With regard to unconstitutionality, the possible, of this legal norm. The text Mrs. Nino proposed was certainly unconstitutional. I do not agree with the statement of colleague Bozhankov that the Constitutional Court should rule on the constitutionality of the clause, given that the National Assembly is a legislative body, and it should monitor the legality of its acts first and not with the clear awareness that any act is under attack, let it pass to the Constitutional Court. It's a political decision. Since this is a legislative body, making a PR and the political decision are not the most appropriate to take place at the moment. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Bojankov for a line? Are there any other lines? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u75	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Vassilev, I will use such an expression: There was a chance for a debate, it could have been put in as a separate decision. All this procedure that is being done today could have been done on Friday, but then you didn't take this outstretched hand of ours. As you can see, we are consensual, open with regard to further proposals on this moratorium. Regarding the unconstitutionality of our proposal or the present one, let us not be hasty about speaking in advance. Neither are we a Constitutional Court, nor do we have this expertise on whether ours was more anti-constitutional than this current decision can say any in this Chamber. This is only in the prerogatives and powers of the Bulgarian Constitutional Court, which is the guardian of the basic law of the Bulgarian Constitution. On the other hand, regarding the proposal that legal changes can effectively stop these appointments. Parliament can adopt such laws. However, does this parliament have time to pass such laws?! Given the situation today, in this Chamber, I think there is no such time. And that is why, even on Friday, this decision could have been adopted, to come up with a decision of the National Assembly, and now we just wouldn't be having this debate. There wouldn't be any appointments. In fact, the Constitutional Court's decision has been put into effect in the future................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u76	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other lines? Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u77	Madam President, honourable Members! I think there are enough experienced parliamentarians here who could tell how it happens when an Adhok group offers something sensible that is in the unreasonable place. The colleague Slavov as a constitutionalist explained very clearly why we agree, but this must be with a separate decision. In normal work of the National Assembly, they immediately exit from the parliamentary groups of broadcast colleagues and create a solution to be tabled on the same day. However, we witnessed a show that immediately developed within the Commission, in which there had to be some political interest. I think even colleagues from GERB agreed to support it, as I see it, and I hope that they know today that it is not good to have appointments. So when we talk about a Constitution, it's important for certain people when they respect the Constitution or not. There's a Constitutional Court. I believe that the decision that we have proposed from.. Straighten up! Goons out!... will be supported by colleagues and is very good. This decision will stop the appointments at the moment, will stop all the transactions that are, and I very much hope that we will have a common majority in this House. Therefore, the next government must make the right decisions and not hinder the work of a public office, because this trap, as Mr. Tsonev said, exists and we must have worked so well to make the decision that no next cabinet will fall into this trap, even within 15 or 20 days, or the two-month period in which a government is. So, colleague, my line was this when they were talking about Constitution, the question is who's keeping it and who's not. I don't have a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u78	Third line? I won't. Do you want a hole, Mr. Vassilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u79	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u80	No. Personal explanation Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u81	Mr. Vassilev, do you really want us in this situation for the state to play our game? Our moratorium is much better than your moratorium? Do you seriously think that what is voted on is very different from what was voted on last week's vote on what was proposed? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] No, it's not really different. The only difference is the damage is there. Explain it to these sectors, which five years will be managed again by GERB. And that's a fact! Your colleagues have explained in detail that it is not a matter of desire. There's a law, and it's respected. These people cannot be fired, except at a very high price for statehood in Bulgaria. What you have done in key sectors for the economy of the state is to guarantee the influence of GERB for five years to come - this is more than the mandate of the next National Assembly, even if it makes it whole. And now you're saying that last week was a matter of procedure?! But it wasn't exactly his place, but let's not make that decision. In what decision?! What decision?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u82	Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u83	It's a personal explanation, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u84	It's not a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u85	What decision could it be?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u86	You're deviating from the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u87	The decision initiating an investigation of the Cabinet, of course, is followed by a decision that stops the actions of this same cabinet, which we obviously all find harmful for Bulgaria. One week was an expensive time for the state. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Bikov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, we will not take part in this vote because it is unconstitutional and it is clear to everyone in this House. These are revocations of powers by the legislature by the executive. I guess it doesn't matter anymore. More importantly, in the last hour and a half in this hall we are witnessing the following picture: all parties, without GERB-SDS, have submitted a decision and have signed under it, and then an hour and a half we wonder who first came up with the idea to make this amazing decision, with which I repeat, to violate the Constitution. The argument is who holds this title as the champion? It is obvious that in this Parliament, perhaps even to its end, we will not be able to reach some consensus on who is first and who is second in no matter, including on who has won the elections. But if you want to stop all concessions, all deals, all appointments or change the way it is done, you should make a government, not stand for an hour and a half and concern the whole of Bulgaria with your, frankly, excuse me, inadequate speeches from all sides. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]] There are extremely important challenges ahead of the country. I will remind you that we are in a health crisis, we are in economic difficulties, we are in social difficulties, we are on the verge of a political crisis, because none of you has said whether we are currently negotiating for any government. Who will participate in this government? Where are these negotiations being held? Are they based on programs? Are you suggesting anything happen in this country other than bullshit and inadequate performances in this room? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Are you proposing any economic measures? Do you propose any social measures that will be realistic and give some horizon to the Bulgarians in the next three or four or five months and what will happen to this country? Do you realize what you've been doing in this parliament for the last few days because I feel like you're not giving yourself up? And I'm telling you this without a drop of hate and a drop of malice, I'm absolutely concerned about what's happening in the country. People don't know what's gonna happen the next day for two weeks. Can you do something like that? And standing here for an hour and a half and talking nonsense about some moratorium, I repeat, it's unconstitutional from every point of view, and it doesn't matter if it was gonna be accepted last week or this week. He will remain unconstitutional. And where are we that this is the little problem of unconstitutionalism? That's the little problem. The big one is not knowing what's going on in the country. Is that the change you promised and the one you were shouting about in the squares? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Is that what you're doing? Because there has been a change, only so far the change is towards bad, colleagues, and it's towards bad not because we are destructive, you see you've been standing here since morning and listening to you, and we wonder what's going on. When are you going to go to the media? And here I'm talking, we'll probably get the mandate back today. When will you go out to the media to explain to what programming intentions the new government will set up, which clearly has more than 160 majority in this room? You can change the Constitution with this, not the model. The Constitution can change. And you tell me who had proposed first, who was much more original, who was more familiar with the Constitution so that he could get around it easier! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, every day wasted time in this hall costs difficulties, costs money for Bulgarian citizens. At least that's what we're on TV. You're demoralizing the entire society right now with your behavior. And I'll call on you at the end: go out in front of the journalists, give interviews, stop talking silently and talk with two sentences from this tribune of jokes. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] There are such people, give interviews, explaining to the Bulgarians, to your voters, if you will not all, but to your voters what you intend to do. The constitutional procedure does not prohibit you from explaining to you what your political intentions are, what your economic intentions are, who you want to rule with, who you don't want with. Are you going to rule at all, or are we going to the caretaker government, if you will, so that people can make their plans? Stop abusing the trust of your own voters! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u90	Thank you. Mr. Zafirov, for a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u91	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Bikov! It is good that from this platform you have finally admitted that the state is in a severe health, social and economic crisis and this crisis is about to grow into both political and financial. [[Applause from ICN, ISV, BSP]] And by admitting it, it's good to be out of this tribune again, with the same zeal to tell who put the country into this crisis. Who's been running this country for ten years? I understand your fervour, I understand your concern, but the time of the behind-the-scenes arrangements is over, the time of the sweet appointments and concessions is over, so get used to it. [[Loud applause from BSP and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u92	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Mr. Hadjigenov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A wonderful artistic talent, unfortunately insufficient for a real show. I would like to draw your attention to the following essential fact. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] If you like not to yell at me, I can beat you all, it's not serious. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, I've had a good try, I've been yelling at you for 116 days, thanks for that. This is a magnificent opportunity you've provided for us. Let me draw your attention to the fact that the uncertainty about tomorrow is a magnificent concern that you are showing, but it is due to you, because you are managing 12 years and all of us who are not you, that is, GERB, are living in this uncertainty about whether tomorrow will happen. And, by the way, as long as you're using such a huge pathos as a country theater, to draw attention to the fact that from the stands you can't slap us, whether you do it in words or literally. I know you wish it wasn't the way, and that's not why we're here. And you caused the crisis! You caused the crisis! And the moratorium in this version is not unconstitutional, but even if it is not your competence, I mean the entire parliamentary group, and not Mr. Bikov specifically, no. The Constitutional Court may rule, ladies and gentlemen, not you. Everything else is fairy tales from the stands, and they, notice, are small talk. We have important work to do, because while we're fighting here on the microphone, the assignments are running. And lastly, I know it's petty of me, but we live by other people's mistakes. Return the mandate and then blame the colleagues of the other parliamentary group for not forming a government! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. For a third line? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u95	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bikov! You've been sitting here all morning listening, and you said, "We're open to debate, to talk." What did you hear? We get it. Why didn't you hear for 12 years, we also know. It's clear to everyone not only in this room and you know it. And as you are so well-meaning, let me remind you that you closed down the National Operations Headquarters very urgently, very quickly. At the next moment you do not want to vote and do not want to withdraw from the exercise of power, and you do not want to stop appointments and anything that has caused damage to the state. What's the hurry? Why did institutions even have to work on Saturdays and Sundays to fit in these appointments? Why?! Why did you do it? Didn't you provide an opportunity for the National Operations Headquarters to be composed by the next government? Why didn't you give the opportunity then to make these appointments to the next government? Why were you in such a hurry? It was so important to you, wasn't it? We all know in this room why it was important to you, we all know! No matter how much you pretend to be God's cow, Mr. Bikov, that's the fact. You rushed, made these changes urgently, to secure and concrete yourself in the second and third echelons of power, where there are actually resources that you are preparing for the next elections, and that is clear to absolutely everyone here. And we're not talking about it now, BSP is not involved in any talks, in any! On the contrary, the BSP shows you and will show you what you are doing, and we will support anyone who stands clear with his face against you and decides to do something constructive for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. For the doppelganger, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u97	Dear colleagues! All three lines have shown that you have not understood what this is about on either side or on the other, and worse, they show that you will not soon understand what this is about. And this, I repeat, will be at the expense of all Bulgarian citizens - both your constituents and our voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u98	You brought him here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u99	The argument that Borisov is guilty of everything and that GERB is guilty of everything is up to time. He can't exist on his own. It may work for you for a while, but now it is time to say what you are not, who you are against, who you are, who you are with, what you are, what you will do. In this country there are many different problems and I will remind you that the health crisis has led to economic challenges, and the health crisis has not made it GERB a health crisis throughout Europe, there is a worldwide health crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u100	But we're number one in mortality.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u101	You don't know, Mr. Zafirov, which place we are on mortality or at least you don't have that kind. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The health crisis is too great a challenge for us to be able to afford in Parliament and in the Bulgarian society to share, and it is on issues that we discuss in this House for an hour and a half.......................... whether Mrs Ninova had first thought of or Mrs Manolova had first thought of. This is not a worthy debate in this situation and I will repeat: this debate is insulting to the Bulgarian citizens, so I will ask you to stop it. Let us vote on this point, stop bothering people with your problems, and once again I call on you: go out and say what you intend to do! This is important to everyone, not just you. And stop calculating how many votes will be in three months or in a year, because this is not the biggest problem of the state. Think about the people, not just yourself! [[Noise, cheer, applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u102	Mr. Bikov, am I to understand that you are doing a procedure to end the debate? The Minister of Energy is in the Chamber and asked for the word. I give the floor to Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u103	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened with interest to this debate because I believe that at this moment this debate is practically doing nothing but diverting the attention of Bulgarian citizens from the most important issue that stands on our agenda and it is to make a stable and responsible management of the state in this difficult situation. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Any attempts to mislead society by imposing moratoriums on you, ladies and gentlemen, but they sound ridiculous and pathetic in the eyes of the people who sent you here. [[noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP, ISN, ISM and applause from GERB-SDS]] You can replicate as much as you want. We have respect, you have respect for the people who sent you here. Firstly, no one tells what the truth is with the so-called jobs in state-owned companies. Why didn't anyone confess and tell us how things really are, otherwise I wouldn't have allowed myself to take away the valuable time of parliament. The truth is this, ladies and gentlemen, and Bulgarian citizens must know it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u104	That's your truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u105	Please don't yell, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u106	Nothing is being done that is contrary to the law as you are trying to instill. There is currently a Law on Public Enterprises, which you, honourable colleagues of BSP... [[Noise and lines.]] You have not voted against this law, on the contrary here is the transcript of 3 July 2019, when the MPs of BSP support this law and say that you have been fighting for this law for two years. This is from 2019, so since 2017, you have been fighting this law to enter the parliament and once and for all stop party appointments in state companies. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll quote, I'll leave you the transcript, you can remember it. So the question is, when are we sincere on 3 July 2019 and today? That is the question, and people need to know the answer to that question. The Law on Public Enterprises has been adopted on the recommendation of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and you know it very well. That's one of the conditions. People need to know the truth. This is one of the conditions for Bulgaria to become a member of the euro area and the Banking Union. This law has been developed with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. What are you imposing a moratorium on with this proposal? The draft OECD law, which was adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament, for the first time introduces the competition for appointments to state companies. For the first time, for the first time! [[Reply from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] Because there was a lot of comment on the energy issue. I don't know why you're so focused on this sector... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u107	Mr. Mirchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u108	It is true that it is extremely important, but what should you know about Bulgarian energy? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] First of all, the competition, which is held by law, has clearly defined criteria and procedures... [[Reply from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] Don't replicate, it doesn't suit you. You're younger and somehow it doesn't work like that! [[Applause from GERB.]] The competition of the Bulgarian Energy Holding is held according to all legal requirements. 19 candidates took part in the procedure, the procedure takes place in several phases. One for the election of representatives of the state [[Replications by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev]] , the other for the independent members of the Agency for Public Enterprises.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u109	Mr. Mirchev, I'm imposing a disciplinary measure on you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u110	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u111	Is he the only one yelling at the gym?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u112	Proceed, Madam Secretary. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u113	19 candidates are involved in this procedure. Those chosen, the choice ended on 31 March 2021. The people who are...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u114	When? When?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u115	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u116	When?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u117	On 31 March 2021, the selection procedure for representatives of the State was completed. The procedure in the Agency for Public Enterprises ended on 15 April and on the same day the Ministry was informed of the proposals made by the Agency. The people who have won the competition are a concept, they were interviewed with the following biographies. If they are Kalinka, please say: Mr. Ivan Andreev with 30 years of experience at the Atomic Power Plant in Kozloduy. He left from the lowest level, was Deputy Executive Director 2013, 2014 by the way, after which he was Executive Director of the Nuclear Power Plant, expert of the International Nuclear Energy Agency, involved in all missions that exercise control over the activities of other nuclear power plants in the world. This man is ranked and he will be a member of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Stylyan Koev 17 years of financial director of the Mini Maritsa East. And these are the ladybirds?! Valentin Nikolov, Chairman of the Energy Commission in Parliament [[noise and lines]] , Executive Director of NPP Kozloduy, engineer. So if these are ladybugs, I don't know what you can offer?! So, ladies and gentlemen, the choice is absolutely objective, the choice is absolutely legal and Bulgarian citizens should know that. There is no problem in this choice, which is made and not only in energy, in all companies. The Law, as well as you in this shorthand of 3 July 2019, requested, clearly stated when these people can be replaced when they fail to fulfil their obligations and do not fulfil the business plan. [[shows the stenogram]] This is the condition that these people can be changed. So think before offering these solutions and before proposing other amendments to the Law. And now there's this opportunity. However, regarding the other part of the proposal with the moratorium on concessions for underground riches. I have prepared for you a folder of decisions by the Council of Ministers from several governments of Mr. Stanishev, Mr. Oresharski and President Radev's Service Government. Here are the decisions made by the Council of Ministers in a matter of days and hours before giving power to the next government. I'll leave them to you to remind you of them. [[Replication of the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] 35 years' concessions are granted here. Here's the file. [[Shows the folder. Applause by GERB-SDS.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for this debate. I think the Bulgarian citizens also received enough clarity for those who advocate. But remember that in this Parliament all of us are sent to serve the Bulgarian people and obey the laws! Thank you for your attention. Good luck to you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Mrs. Manolova wanted to go before you, Mr. Popov, then I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u119	I expected that Mrs. Petkova came here to inform the Bulgarian citizens why yesterday the KEWRC on a proposal from Bulgargaz. increased the price of natural gas by 16%? Mrs. Petkova, why was the natural gas, the price of which was to be revised from April 1st, absolutely electionally, and with your participation, not discussed the change in its price? Why yesterday?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I would also like to ask Mrs. Petkova why the heat efficiency and energy companies that asked for... [[Mister Temenuzhka Petkova is coming out of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u120	There's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u121	...an increase in the price of electricity and heat, didn't they do it in public? I expected you to come for this. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u122	Why is he leaving?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u123	And since Mr. Bikov was asking what the parliamentary groups are doing, stand up! There is such a people and a Democratic Bulgaria? We are dealing with what we have promised the Bulgarian citizens we are dealing with fulfilling our commitments and we have introduced the relevant laws. Yeah, people are stupendous. Yeah, people are worried. Yeah, people are worried about their jobs, about their money, about their health, so will there be room in the hospital, so will there be medication? This is what people have been worried about in recent years of GERB management. And yes, people are worried about whether the small business will get at least some support from power? Because thanks to your majority and your government, Bulgaria is the only country that does not support small and medium-sized businesses that does not support self-insuring individuals who do not support those who are not closed, but have reduced turnover! That's what we're doing, Mr. Bikov. We have tabled proposals for the outrageous practices during your management and your carelessness...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u124	Is that on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u125	...for Bulgarian households and Bulgarian businesses to be terminated. That's what we've done with laws I hope, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u126	Mrs. Manolova...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u127	...will be presented for discussion as soon as possible. Yes, not everyone, not everyone in this room is worried about who will be the minister, who will take what position, who will be appointed on the board of another enterprise, who will receive what starting positions to absorb. We are here to fulfil our commitments to the Bulgarian citizens. That's what we do. We have submitted proposals for support to the pensioners, to the self-insuring persons, to the Bulgarian households...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u128	That's not the point. Madam President, this is a political declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u129	Mrs. Manolova, they're distributed...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u130	...of the small business. And yes, in view of the appointments that have been made in the medical institutions, we have done our homework and we have written a bill which, I hope, will be voted on today in the Health Commission and then in due time in plenary, which will grant the powers of appointment of boards of state hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u131	It's a political declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u132	This is in connection with the moratorium of the respective minister. We've taken every precaution. We will also propose amendments to the Public Enterprises Act, which, as we understand, you have all voted. Because right now all those competitions Minister Petkova was talking about, and everyone else, are not subject to judicial review. They are carried out by some bodies appointed by the managers appointed by GERB, who appreciate the "kalinks" of GERB. So, what is the result of this activity? Therefore, we will change the Law, allow for judicial review and then all these appointments, which Petkova boasted, will be revised. And she was supposed to be here to say how much would the electricity cost from July 1st? How much is the heat going to cost...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u133	Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u134	Because the energy companies asked for it, but the KEWRC didn't announce it. And then a meeting because I expected that she would do this work, from our parliamentary group we are going to KEWRC to inform Bulgarian citizens what awaits them from Temenuzhka Petkova's tesla. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u135	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. For lines? Are there any lines? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u137	Why did Petkova leave? Bring her back! You can bring her back!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u138	Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u139	Thank you. Madam President, I'm addressing you. My procedure is in the way of conduct, because you are the President of the National Assembly and follows from this tribune, when here a resigning minister speaks frank lies and untruths, at least to make a remark to him and not to her with this mentoring tone to speak to the MPs! Because here, from this tribune, Mrs. Petkova has allowed herself to tell absolute untruths and honest lies. She said the BSP parliamentary group was against the law?! What insolence is that thing that we were against, that we didn't like this law? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "She has not said such a thing! On the contrary.]] We, then, and now, our battle is for experts, not for party appointments! And here Mrs. Petkova confessed to the party appointments. Is Mr. Nikolov, who was a member of GERB, the only appointed expert energyist in Bulgaria?! That's what we're talking about. We are not against the Law, but against the actions and benefits of GERB and their close party click around them from the Law. Because they take advantage of the Law, surround the Law, concreteize themselves in a second, third Echelon of Power, as my colleague said here, to have money for the upcoming elections, because we all know in Bulgaria how GERB make elections: That's GERB! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u140	Thank you. I will not comment on your speech, Mr. Popov. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "You should have stopped him. "]] I don't think it makes any sense. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u141	Honourable Members, Madam President! I regret that the minister is not going to explain to her that the idea of this bill for public enterprises was precisely to take the government away from politicians. While GERB did the opposite, you made political appointments. Therefore, we will put up with reproaches and therefore we feel that it is not right for the Law to exist in this way. You've made a huge mistake. The idea was for politicians to stay outside the management of these enterprises so that they could work on a market basis, be state-owned and follow the OECD recommendation. However, you, typically Gerberian, ruined everything and appointed your own people. But why was it important, colleagues, this moratorium? Because since the board of the Bulgarian Energy Holding was appointed on April 19th and there the expectations that they should have been really there could have even been an international competition, the idea was to have international candidates, to apply for the management of state assets in the energy sector, but one person there was appointed entirely without a competition. This is Alexander Plamenov. How is this person appointed on the board of the Bulgarian Energy Holding without competition? And here the Minister had to come and explain why this was happening? So this person has no place there, and this is your idea and the way you just read the Law. It is therefore really necessary to have such a moratorium at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u142	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. For lines to Mr. Stoinev? A line, Mrs. Zaykova? The way you're leading it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u143	My fellow Members, I have a question for the Presidency! Who let Mrs. Petkova go when she was a Member of Parliament who asked her questions and she left the Chamber most unceremoniously? [[Applause from IHN]] I'm asking you, Madam President. [[(Applause from IHN and shouting:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u144	The rules, for example!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u145	Mrs. Zaykova, we have not made a decision, nor have we obliged the Minister to come to the Chamber. She came of her own free will and exercised her right under the Constitution to ask her to speak. So there's no procedure for us to keep her in the room. There's parliamentary control. Under parliamentary control, you may ask questions to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u146	You can invite her back to the gym. [[Reply from MP Tatiana Doncheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u147	Any other lines? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoinev, it is now becoming clear why this decision was taken by these parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u149	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u150	About the moratorium. Well, the reason is BEH! I would like to ask you: is this moratorium relevant and specifically the appointments to BEH with a former minister to whom the chairman of your group was deputy? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Another line? Yes, Mr. Popov, here's Mr. Stoynev's reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u152	Yes, Mr. Stoinev's line. Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoynev, you said about one of the cases where without a competition is practically appointed another ladybug. I am going to ask you: did you know that from the date of April 20, 2021, by order of the Minister, who very quickly left through this door, is again announcing a competition for independent representatives in BEH, independent experts, so-called.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As one of the possible arguments of the person who is actually the expert who did not like it in this committee, is that he most likely did not pay the debts of local taxes and fees in April. So he is, figuratively speaking, played out, and here is the competition, again from April 20th. The new ladybirds are coming. Hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u153	Well, fire him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u154	Thank you, Mr. Popov. For a third line? I won't. Mr. Stoinev, for the back? You don't want to, okay. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am taking a procedure to support Mrs. Zaykova's proposal, that is, the case, which says absolutely disrespectful, is the resignation minister demonstrably of all of you, colleagues in the front row and of the entire room, left the Chamber. That is why I am doing a procedure which I would like you to put to the vote Minister Petkova's resignation to return to the Chamber, to listen to the debate to the end, to answer the questions that she will probably have, as she...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u156	It's going to a hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u157	This is not a hearing, Madam President, but you can't come in here and say whatever you want and leave whenever you want. There's a relationship between the institutions. Please put to the vote the procedure of Minister Petkova to come back and sit here in his place, and when this is over, he will leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u158	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u159	Mrs. Atanasova, for a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Svilenski, I expected that with your long parliamentary experience at least you have learned the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. It is unacceptable at the moment to put to the vote any procedures, Madam President, because they will be contrary to our rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u161	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u162	You have the opportunity, colleagues, under the parliamentary control procedure and hearings to submit a request to the President of the National Assembly and Mrs. Petkova to appear in order to answer all the questions asked. But don't break the country's rules and laws. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u163	Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u164	That's cynical.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u165	Procedure is this, Mrs. Atanasova, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u166	That's very specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u167	Mrs. Atanasova, it was 10 years when they managed GERB, violating the Rules and voting on what is profitable for them. There are 240 MPs who will decide whether Minister Petkova will come back here or not. The will of the people is the one that will determine not the will of totalitarian government. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u168	Mr. Svilenski, I will not put to the vote your proposal, as we are at another point.. We are looking at a decision imposing a moratorium. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u169	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u170	I believe that the hypothesis of the Constitution and of the Rules of Engagement of the Minister is in a completely different sense. We do not do hearings here, and we cannot now oblige it, nor are the MPs willing to ask their questions to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u171	Then why were you here?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u172	She was acting as a minister because she has the right to ask for the floor at any time. She came, asked her, without being invited, she took the floor, said what she had and left.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u173	Read the rules, Mr. Svilensky. You're doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u174	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u175	Mr. Svilensky, the minister came to the room to make us talk some untruths and leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u176	He brought this along. [[shows folder]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u177	Mrs. Atanasova, you instead of yelling at us in the front row, teaching us the Rules and making misconceptions, instead of wasting your time here next to you is Mr. Glauchev, ask him at the "Zeminvest" EAD whether his son was reassigned a few days ago and whether it was entered in the register. Instead of making these suggestions wrong, talk to each other because you are all like this in the hall in the middle. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And that was...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u178	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u179	That's a statement, I have one minute of the group, Mrs. Karayancheva. So, honourable Members, our struggle for this moratorium to happen immediately was only for this reason, so that this could be prevented, because this has been happening all the time in the last 11 years. Parliamentaryism is going down, the law is going down, the procedures are going down. You are talking here about the appointments the minister spoke to us about the appointments to state enterprises. Well, colleagues, the requirements you so wrong and so wrong apply the law. The requirements for the directors of the Market for Fruit, Vegetables and Flowers and the Director of the NPP are the same. Do you think that this could be the right thing to do, that it is true that the Director of the Nuclear Power Plant, Kozloduy, the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the Market for Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers, will respond to certain requirements? It's a nonsense. The law, as the minister said, was proposed by the BSP not two years before that. And we have fought and defended him only with the idea that indeed these party appointments will once and for all be completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u180	Mr. Prodanov, your group's time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u181	I'm coming. The OECD has indeed suggested that this should be terminated. They pushed you, and you accepted it, but after you accepted it, you compromised it and you continue to compromise it. We are against this, colleagues, and that is why we are proposing this moratorium. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u182	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Prodanov's lines? I won't. For speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u183	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Bulgarian citizens, watching and listening to us through national media! I waited for all this demagogy from the parties of the status quo, all those accusations, lies. [[noise and lines]] Because I think it's cultural and that's how it should be done. Unfortunately, yesterday there was a overlap in several committees and two of our colleagues, one of whom I am, failed to submit a proposal for an addition to the decision. I would therefore like to submit such a proposal, and I would argue it, namely, for a new point to art. 1 to read: "Completion of executive transactions with real estate of the Ministry of Defence. The arguments for this proposal to add are that over the last two years the Ministry of Defense has sold a huge number of unused real estate, and for this year there is a graphic plan for 249 such properties and an additional plan-graphic of 13 more such properties. As a comparison, I will only give that one of these is for example an additional one, in the supplementary graphic plan is marked as a building, but it is not noted what area there is, but precisely when it goes to the GPS coordinates, it is seen that this is an appetizing area of two acres on the bank of Pancharevo, on the dam.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u184	Is this gonna work?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u185	No, it's not a barracks, it's buildings. Mr. Bikov, please don't interrupt me. So what I propose is to add this point. There must be arguments to add usher deals in real estate and other ministries, but since I'm not prepared to propose, I haven't looked at all such properties and graphics, this one I've looked at. I know that Mr. Karakachanov has been selling seriously in recent years, as if he were his father, does not treat IMRO property the same way. However, I believe that the Members of the National Assembly should support such a proposal and add to the decision of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u186	Thank you. Mrs. Manolova. Does she have time? What do you have for addition to the Decision, in this regard? Okay, we're extending the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u187	Dear Mr. Sandov, in fact the idea of the editorials that we made yesterday in the moratorium decision was to cover not just the Council of Ministers with his acts, but all ministries and all handling transactions. So the final version should actually be in the hands of President Miteva, the editorial should sound so as to include the Ministry of Defence and all other ministries. I join the proposal because one of the first signals that entered the Committee on Revision concerns open transactions related to the sale of properties of the Ministry of Defence. Either way, the Commission does not have the capacity to check all transactions simultaneously, but it would be good to put everything that is now sold between the two governments and both parliaments just to stop. So I ask that the draft decision be read in order to see that all transactions for the disposal of property, i.e. real estate, are included in its meaning. I don't know, maybe some moving property.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u188	Mrs. Manolova, I'm just gonna give you an explanation. The point is: Perhaps if it were to be said:.. including the state medical treatment for the hospital, then everyone will be covered.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u189	This isn't about hospital care at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u190	No, it's about Mr. Sandov making an offer regarding the Ministry of Defense. If you want the point to be common, as the point at the moment is only in relation to state hospitals for hospital care.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u191	Excuse me, yesterday's decision, which we have also commented on on on my proposal, has been included in authorising transactions which concern all ministries and departments. It's just...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u192	Then the point, which is why I am telling you, must sound like this:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u193	This was exactly the idea of the Legal Committee.. all deals of all ministries, of all agencies and of all public... [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u194	Another line? Yes, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u195	Madam President, honourable Members! There is no harm in putting everything under a moratorium, but I hope this is not your ideological line. Keep in mind that Pancharevo cannot be built a barracks. In the center of Aytos, for example, there is a large abandoned barracks and tell me what should be done by the Ministry of Defense? Restore the barracks? And one more thing. If Mr. Ivan Kostov were in this Parliament, I am sure he would be ashamed of your parliamentary group and such proposals. Thank you. [[Applause GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u196	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For the third line, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sandov, I'm addressing you with a line on two occasions. The first is, by reading the purely technically draft decision itself, there is one point that prohibits, but rather imposes a moratorium on state loans and so on.......................................................................................... the proposal for the decision itself............................................................... And I have the first question, which is purely legal, if anyone can answer me, given that taking government loans, especially international, is subject to ratification by the National Assembly. Whether this item actually delegates rights to the National Assembly, if you could legally give me a hint. And, secondly, I would like to add to your proposal to include a new point - not only the real - but also the real - things in the management of the Ministry of Defence, as in the last two hours it has been about the requested Ladybirds and so on. After all, the CEO of the company that sells the movable property of the Ministry of Defence is a member of Mr. Rumen Yonchev's party, who is from the Coalition. Goons out! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u198	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. A hole? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u199	Madam President, honourable Members! Minister Petkova tried to explain that these competitions and appointments were under the Law on Public Enterprises, which was adopted here in this Chamber, about three years ago I remember because I was also a MP, and then the proposal was during the Oresharski cabinet, the BSP group. In addition, I would like it to be made clear that this law respects all the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, that is, the procedural rules in this law comply with the best corporate governance practices in the world. But what I have become is to point out to you that these contests are being held by the Agency for Public Enterprises. She is the successor of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. There's a Supervisory Board in this agency. This Supervisory Board is actually managing the competition process. This agency and this Supervisory Board shall carry out the competitions. I would like to draw your attention to the composition of the Supervisory Board. I don't know how many of you remember, but we have the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency for at least ten years we haven't chosen and you're right. The last one was elected in 2010. Even its composition is incomplete because of seven people in it there are five. More importantly, who are these five people to know who the Supervisory Board is, who actually conducted the competition procedures for the selection of all those people you are talking about now. I'll write them down for you. Mr. Vlahov and Mr. Ivanov, representatives of GERB, two. Mr. Dimitar Bachvarov is a representative of the DSB, Vice-President of the DSB in the past. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Rusy Statkov, the senior representative of the Privatization Agency of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, and Mr. Sadkeev, who, as I recall, is a representative of the DPS. That's the five people. That is, of these five people Supervisory Board, GERB has two, DSB, BSP and DPS have three or have a majority. That is, the parties that are proposing to introduce a moratorium today are, in fact, those who have a majority in the appointment of all these people to the committees. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u200	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Dobrev's line? I won't. Statements? I won't. Mrs. Doncheva, come in for a proposal on the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u201	Dear colleagues, looking at the text and listening to the discussion, I am making you an offer to lightly edit what you have proposed. [[Noise and lines.]] What I'm reading is a collective effort by the Legal Committee. I don't want to share any parts of this room in any way. Everyone has to keep their eyes open. In the Decision imposing a moratorium on certain actions, I think we should add to the state authorities. The state authorities are not allowed to act at all. Below, the text follows as follows. Point one: supposes a moratorium on the following actions by the state authorities. It seems to me that this will cover the ministries.. not to argue whether we have forgotten a ministry or an agency, and it will become clear what the moratorium refers to. Why is the separation of state hospitals to hospital care need to be highlighted? Because of the actions that take place there. The Law on Public Enterprises can lead you to the conclusion that medical institutions are public undertakings, but obviously the criteria for choosing the management of the vegetable market and hospitals cannot be the same. You all or at least the group guides have received a thick folder about what is currently going on in ISUL. Somehow it is not logical and reasonable to make the head of the board of ISUL a man who graduated from the Magnaur School in Simeonovo with a recognized diploma for legal education. After all, it's about one of the most respected hospitals. Apparently, hospitals will have to have some other characteristic. Since the problem is currently in hospitals, the emphasis in the letter "de" will not be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. [[Relations from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] This was a proposal for an amendment to the decision, it was not a statement. All right, I'll give you my word, make an offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u203	I take a line because it said that it was a statement, if not a statement, is a statement on the text. Then I would also like to do a text editing, as I do not understand what is this umbrella that is stretching out by standing up! On the moving property and on the disposal of movable property. I therefore propose that after the real estate, there should also be real estate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u204	We suggested it. It's not our text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u205	I am talking about the text it has, and you will support to have real estate in the text. If you've suggested it, you'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u206	You're kidding. [[Relations from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] Okay, I'll put it to the vote. Any other speeches? Mr. Hadjigenov, you don't have time. If you have a proposal for the decision, Mr. Hadjigenov. [[Heckling]] Let's follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u207	Yeah, there's no time. I mean: let's stop breathing, if possible, to satisfy GERB in a possible way. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u208	Are there any other statements? Do the parliamentary groups, which have time, want speeches within the group's time? I won't. I declare the debate closed. We are starting on the Decision to impose a moratorium in certain actions. Mr. Sandov, do you hold your motion to be voted on?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u209	If it's on, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u210	Okay, then we'll vote first on Mrs. Doncheva's proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Tatiana Doncheva in the name of the Decision is finally added to the state authorities. In point 1 of the preceding letter, the State authorities are also added to the final statement. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: for 75, against 39, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] Why does the system say the offer is accepted? Yes, the quorum is 78... the proposal is not accepted. Revoting! They voted 146 MPs: 81, against 39, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Proposal by the National Representative Tatyana Doncheva in point 1 (d) of the Decision after the word "use" to be placed comma and to add The letter goes like this: "Complete executive transactions with real estate, including state hospital services. Please vote. Vote 147 MPs: 140 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. A proposal by the National Representative Hristo Gajev after the words They voted 146 MPs: 99 against 17, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. We must now vote on the whole decision of the Commission's opinion on legal issues. Please vote on the entire decision together with the proposals adopted. Vote 151 MPs: for 151, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Do you want me to announce a break? [[Replys: "Yes. "]] I'm calling a 30-minute recess. [[After the break.]] Moving on, fellow Members, with the next item on the agenda... Mr. Popov, do you want the floor? Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This morning I made a procedure to turn on the cameras of BNR and BNT 1. I really misinterpreted myself. The idea was to broadcast a first item directly on the agenda, not the whole agenda. So now I'm doing a procedure to shut down BNT cameras and BNR microphones. This is the idea of the first point because it was really an important item on the agenda for Bulgarian citizens, for the entire parliament, namely the imposition of a moratorium on these actions of the executive. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u212	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Back proposal, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u213	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse offer. When we talk about transparency, the Rules of the National Assembly are one of the most important documents which accept every new National Assembly. There you can actually see the attitude of the ruling majority mainly to the opposition and the functioning of the National Assembly. I also believe that this should be broadcast on BNR and BNT 2. I am doing a reverse procedure and please support the remaining direct transmission of today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u214	It is broadcast on BNT 1. For BNT 2 you agree. The problem is that the work of the National Television is blocked. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Philip Popov to suspend the direct transmission of BNT and BNR at the plenary session. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO REPEAT THE VALENTIAN VACATION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING FOR 2021 Importers "suppliers" Hristo Dochev and a group of MPs. Will any of the importers present the Project?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u215	Madam President, honourable Members! Project! DECISION repealing the Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 45, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Cancels the Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u216	Thank you. Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Just to clarify that, in practice, the colleague from GERB, who did not make a counter-proposal, essentially made a new proposal. Because the proposal itself this morning meant BNT 1 and BNR, and the colleague proposed the cameras to BNT 2. That means direct broadcast on BNT 2. I think you should put it to the vote because that's another proposal, not the opposite of what I suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u218	Yes, Mr. Popov, thank you, but Mr. Nenkov clarified after my question was asked that he meant BNT 1. Are there any speeches on the proposed draft decision? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Voting mode. Vote 171 MPs: 165, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION AND CLEARANCE OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The Committee for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and for amendments to the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Mr. Dochev, please report the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u219	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Yesterday was held the meeting of the Temporary Commission for Drafting Changes in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The sitting was quite long due to the large volume of proposals. A total of six projects were presented. The Commission has been able to examine them and present to your attention a draft decision before you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u220	Report the name of the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u221	I present to you the Project of a Decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria decided:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u222	I propose the name of the Decision to finally vote on it, depending on the texts that we adopt. So report the first proposal made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u223	The first proposal is from the MPs Nikolai Hadzhigenov, Maria Kapon, Arman Babikian and Mrs. Vasileva, and this proposal has been withdrawn. The next proposal is for a change in art. 5 of the MPs Atanas Slavov and colleagues, and it has also been withdrawn. The next proposal is from the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and colleagues. I'll read the provision: The existing provision of art. 7 of the Rules becomes para. 1 and a new para is created. 2 containing the following content: Within 5 months of the establishment of the National Assembly an Advisory Council on Law shall be established. The organisation and the activities shall be governed by rules established by the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall elect a name composition of the Advisory Council on Law and shall determine remuneration for its members. Representatives of non-profit legal entities registered for public use may take part in Council meetings. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u224	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. I won't. We are actually voting to reject the text. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. Please vote on the Commission's proposal to reject the offer of importers. They voted 139 MPs: 40, against 74, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u225	Madam President, honourable Members! Please specify the voting procedure.. It is an accurate and clear procedure in the way of voting. The Commission's proposal is voted because, at the moment, colleagues have been unaware of exactly what is being voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u226	The proposal is voted on, that is, you must support the Commission's unsupported proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u227	Only the Commission's proposal is voted on. Such is the established practice in the National Assembly to date and not to make double votes. I'm going to ask for the second vote either to be cancelled or to be rescinded because... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u228	You are voting on the Commission's sanction. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, why the Commission's sanction?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u229	At least there should be a re-voting because most of the Members did not understand in the second vote what they voted for. It's a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u230	Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, you have rightly assessed and given the opportunity to re-vote in plenary the text proposed by the Commission because it has been read by the President of the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues, we are voting on the Commission's proposals and, according to them, we are forming our will. Otherwise, under the terms of art. 69, colleague Ivanov, the vote is carried out in the following order: a motion for rejection; a proposal for postponement; a proposal for replacement; a proposal for editorial amendments; a text discussed which can be held and approved amendments already; proposals for supplement; the main proposal. In this sense, the procedure is quite clear, just as the President of Parliament has once again given the opportunity to re-vote. It can only be reworded once, so don't ask... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the contrary, there was a proposal to re-vote and Mrs. Miteva made the right decision. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u232	Yes, Mr. Vigenin, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, let's actually be correct. The first vote was cancelled. So at the moment we have a procedure carried out on a single vote. Therefore, the re-voting proposed by Mr. Ivanov should be realized with the details already on what I am voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u234	Again the proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Nadezhda Yordanova under art. 5 which the Commission does not support. Vote 197 MPs: 98, against 80, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Dochev, report to Art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u235	Dear Madam President, the next proposal for editing of art. 13, para. 4 is of the MPs Nikolai Hadzhigenov, Maria Kapon, Arman Babikan and Valentina Vasileva-Filadelfevs. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u236	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u237	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I hope we've already clarified the way we vote. I am speaking on the substance of the proposal for changes in art. 13, but I'll fill it in with Art. Article 15 23, because they say they're identical. This is a notoriously old-known proposal to return political nomadicism to parliament. Perhaps the new beginning in this Parliament is returning to some well-forgotten old practices. I'm sure the next offer will be for the foreign card vote to come back. As we have remembered since 2000, one man has been walking and has voted with all the cards of his parliamentary group. What the importers propose is that Mr. Hadjigenov, Kapon, Babikian and Mrs. Vasileva-Filadelfevs return precisely to the practice of MPs elected by one parliamentary group to be able to go to other parliamentary groups and thus, first, to replace the vote of the citizens who supported them and then quite unprincipledly declare their support for other parliamentary groups. In a way to return the good old practice to politicians who have, for example, entered with the right list, suddenly became left-wing politicians, something that the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria long hated. I will therefore call on the House not to support it, but I hope the importers themselves will withdraw it, because this is one of the most notorious and shameful things that have happened in parliament in the last 1990 to 2009. By the way, 2009 GERB became the first political force, one of its first decisions in the drafting of the Rules at the time was to end political nomadicism because this practice was hated by the Bulgarian voters. I hope he doesn't support himself this time either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u238	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. The line, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gajev, you are absolutely right in your arguments, we fully support them, and I personally. I would just like to remind you that in the 44th National Assembly you made changes to the Rules that allowed those who left the BSP parliamentary group to create a quasi-parliamentary group that was entitled to statements, declarations. I think that this practice was also wrong, and I hope that never again, moreover, political nomadicism, will be allowed such actions, which were only aimed at guaranteeing the quorum for you to live another month or two of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u240	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u241	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We've been listening to this about political nomadicism for about 30 years. Personally, I cannot remember any parliament in which there were no people leaving a parliamentary group. I can't remember, maybe I'm wrong about age and sclerosis. It seems that this article has not helped anyone to keep the people in the parliamentary group in a bundle, it seems that we are trying to protect ourselves from two parliamentary groups gathering in an alliance in which I see no political incest, especially if they are ideologically close. Looks like that's a problem, too. The proposal, which is given, also has to do with the vote in Bulgaria, because we are giving everyone the opportunity to mark preferences, that is to announce their majority preference to someone, not just to the party secretary who is staying at some party address. That is to say, the possibility of a certain MP expressing the opinion of the people who voted for it, despite some differences with the general opinion, of course it creates discomfort, but it is a hint in the direction of majority, when the personal morality, dignity and opinion of this person gets away with the right party line. We know whose party line, if not parallel to the straight party line, is the wrong line. So think about whether this term has worked to this day. Did he save the Bulgarian Socialist Party with all due respect from leaving, or the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, or other right-wing formations? Everything I say is not an accusation to these formations. Think about whether this text works or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u242	Thank you. A line? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, Mr. Babikan, who gave me a line, who left the 44th, 43th, 42nd and so on, became independent MPs who were not members of a parliamentary group. The amendment made to the Rules was to allow non-members to speak in parliamentary groups for declarations. Okay, if you think it's a mistake, you could have suggested it be dropped now in the Rules. Unfortunately, I do not see at least in the draft decision such proposals even from the BSP parliamentary group. I hope they drop out. If Mr. Vigenin, you say they'll drop out, let's see a proposal on paper. Because one thing's fairy tales, another thing's about deeds. Already on the proposal itself. Whether you are independent or you will join another political force shows much about the morality and purity of the people who have been chosen. It's up to you how you vote, but here it's a matter of morality.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u244	Thank you. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u245	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I see that the Commission has rejected it and, of course, I support that it has rejected this proposal, but since we are talking a lot about morality, this may be the most common and used replica of change and any such similar epithets in the last days, since this Meeting has been formed, I can classify this proposal to colleagues from... I do not even want to say from which parliamentary group, because it is insulting to the Bulgarian state to have such a group name at all, but this, of course, is at their expense. This for me is an absolute attempt to replace the vote of the Bulgarian citizen and no motives for this, you see, why two formations should not then unite in others, disguised behind the beautiful words for the majority element, when you vote preferentially, can justify this particular political nomadicism. Because when you were in the square and mathematically you collected some voices so you could go through the four percent barrier, as it is by law, and then what happens next. After that, whatever happens, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't have an ideology, it doesn't have a program, it doesn't have any common goals. And I would very much like to see Mrs. Manolova here from this tribune, not seeing her, but I have done my hard work in 2014 because she is the chairman of this group, 2014 she says on the occasion of the proposal she submitted together with colleagues from other political groups: "This is a proposal that puts an end to the parliamentary nomadship. And I ask Mrs. Manolova, because I do not see her in the Chamber, but I hope she will come and answer: does she support this proposal and is this your new understanding of some morality and honesty to voters? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u246	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! But weren't you the ones who passionately supported the majority vote for a few days? Where did you see a lack of political morality if two parliamentary groups decided to get together? Because you think the existence of political morality is when you've crossed the barrier by more than 4%, then political morality seems to be diminishing?! [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] I'm asking a clear, very clear context. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The opportunity to gather in a common parliamentary group is an opportunity that can be used. That someone wishes not to be in a parliamentary group, should he be deprived of the opportunity to speak enough of this tribune or deprive him of the number of voters who sent him to the National Assembly? We're not talking about political nomadicism here. Half of your members and delegates here have come from another party, whose name I'll save. So let's not talk about political nomadicism. Don't wonder about the BCP we are also talking about your absent Prime Minister in resignation. [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u248	Thank you. Any other lines? Mrs. Capon. [[National Representative Maya Manolova wants the floor.]] Yes, I saw you, Mrs. Manolova, but Mrs. Capon was before you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u249	You're absolutely right, Mr. Nenkov. That is why the amendment has been tabled by other MPs. Unlike many parliamentary groups, we have the freedom to have a different opinion and a free vote. As a person who has been and has supported the parliamentary group of the People's Union, during the ODS, when we appeared together in elections, between Mrs. Moser, Mr. Stefan Savov and Mr. Kostov. Here at least there are colleagues in your parliamentary group who have memory and have created a separate parliamentary group afterwards, although we have worked together. So whenever someone decides, it's not about a correction that's different and it's the logic of nomadicism. I understand that in previous parliaments this has been extremely important. It is about us wanting and saying again: that it is possible for the MPs to join forces and that if they decide that two parliamentary groups or some of them will form a political formation tomorrow, they will do so. Don't be afraid of that. It just doesn't make sense. That's why I'm saying, for Mrs. Manolova, you're absolutely right, there was a different correction in the previous year, and I've seen it. That's why we did it separately as our repairs. Freedom in our group, I repeat to you once again, is a fundamental value!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. For the third line, Mrs. Manolova. Mrs. Manolova, are you asking for a personal explanation? Okay. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Mr. Bikov. It's different, Mr. Bikov, you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u251	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nenkov, you misunderstand. It's obvious in the stand-up group! Coutures out! "Freedom as a major value is understood, as some may want to join another parliamentary group. Some kind of alliance. I'll tell them they could have done it before the election. In the election process, in the election campaign we make commitments to voters and say: we appear in this format. Everyone is free then and alliances to do, and coalitions, and whatever they want. And people vote for what they're offered before the election. They didn't vote for an alliance. If you wanted, you could have made an alliance with 10 other parties. You didn't do it, and you said you had some differences with them, and that's how you got votes. Now that you've come to parliament, you'll just lie to your constituents and those who have done it have replaced the vote of the voters. Because I remember ODS, too, the big ODS, appeared with one leaf, and people then voted for this unification of all parties on the right, then centre-right space, and then it turned out that there are different groups, with my complete respect for those people. But not to mention what was happening after 2001, when whole groups were doing in the National Assembly with the votes of the voters who had voted for the NDSV for King Simeon II. Here came the chairmen of parliamentary groups who had never heard of them. Then after 2005, the same thing happened. And it was not good for anything else, but because the authority of parliament was destroyed. And that is why, indeed, this restriction was introduced under public pressure in 2009. Not even so much because of GERB's will, just the public was goosebumping against all these things. So whoever had any other intentions before the election said them then, not to say them now. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u252	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Nenkov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u253	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! There is no other qualification of what you are trying to do except that it is a very ugly, very ugly act. It's a very ugly act! This is really done before the elections. I guess Mr. Bikov didn't understand me at first. That's what you do when you form a policy, when you unite, when you say what your priorities are. What are you guys getting ready for? You both want to rule in quotes, to show a new standard, to make new moral foundations, to rule the state better than GERB, and you on the first day are wondering how to split and how to guarantee the right to have a parliamentary group. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And my colleague Bikov is very right. This 2009 happened not only because GERB had this will, but indeed because society wanted it. Because voting with other people's cards is a depraved act. Because when you lie to the citizens and then... Can you imagine half of GERB's MPs going to the BSP group for example? I'm sorry, isn't that a vote change? That's the real behind-the-scenes thing. Mathematical sum before the election, nice, with the megaphones, no problem. And then when you get into parliament, what you're saying is, well, whatever it is, whatever it is from here on out. There's a story like that. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u254	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mrs. Manolova for a personal explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group, stand up! It's not a barracks. We don't have military discipline, we don't have a chief who's always right and who drops one solution or another. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] We're really an organization of free people. Two civil organisations that have united around a political memorandum in which the first point is the breakdown of Borisov's model. That's our first point, that's our first target. Then comes judicial reform, fair elections, raise incomes and so on. Don't comment on hypotheses that didn't happen. As I recall, GERB's parliamentary group was also never insured by split electrons. Now, given that your trend is down, there will certainly be more. So be careful what you say, because tomorrow surely tomorrow, this will happen to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u256	Don't threaten from the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u257	Spreading out the mathematical sum of interests, which represents the parliamentary group of GERB, which we all know very well. And yes, I will not support this proposal because I have a consistent position. Unlike you, I do not change my position under the Parliamentary Rules and the Election Code and on any other subject. I'm not changing it because some chief called me from somewhere to tell me how to vote. That's what happens to you. So you are the last people who currently have reason to object to the right for everyone to have their own opinions and to make their own proposals. Yes, Mr. Bikov, you have Chief Borisov. These people in our parliamentary group don't have a supervisor. So ask your boss and don't moralize from the stands. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "Leave this Borisov." He's talking about something else. The guy's gone. Change the plate...]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches? For procedure or for speech? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u259	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You have entered a very thin ice that will be difficult to get out of. I have a request. Please don't take care of our relationship with our constituents and what they will understand and how much they will believe us. We'll handle this. Please don't discuss the protest or who was thinking what. None of your business. You were in a counter-protest, or at least you sent out buses like that. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] When we talk about belonging and identity, it is well-called the right-wing GERB party, which sounds like Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria, to realize whether it is more immoral by order of their chief to be with an anti-European party such as the Ataka, which is against the European Union, against NATO, against the bases in Bulgaria or with NFSB, who prefer to drag elderly women along the border, and what is the identity with citizens for European development? Or do you like the left ABB better? So you can officially go to bed in one bed politically with anyone, and you care about someone and another MP who, you see, has recognized the opinion of some other MP from a neighbouring parliamentary group?! Stop talking about morals, you're gonna make a big mistake. You've been through all of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u260	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u261	Madam President, colleagues! After all, colleagues from GERB, who are we to interfere in party love? Someone wanted to reunite with the DPS, someone wanted to... [[Reply.]] That was a statement, that's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u262	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u263	Someone wanted to get back together with the DPS, someone wanted to get back together with the BSP, someone wanted to get mixed up, go to bed, because we heard about beds, bedrooms, so I don't know what, we just didn't hear anything about people's votes. And you remind them of it here, and you speak it, ambitious that someone will hear you. [[He addressed the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.]] There's no such thing! From my grandmother I know: when love spoke, it was her double, triple, other than the acceptable one or the familiar one, everything else was silent. Let's not talk about reason. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u264	Thank you, Mr. Manev. For a second line, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u265	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Babikan, if unlike GERB, in which political orientation is very clearly expressed since the party was created and it has very clear objective evidence, Bulgaria is a full member of the European Union. Bulgaria was recently accepted in the waiting room of the European zone. Bulgaria is about to become a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation. Bulgaria has made one of the most successful presidencies compared to all other European countries. Bulgaria was the one who started the integration of the Western Balkans. And unlike GERB, I do not yet know of your parliamentary group Are you in favour of or against the European Union? Could you go out there and say that? It's been a long time, and it's nice for you to define yourself. It cannot only be Boyko Borisov and GERB in your mouth! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u266	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u267	Thank you, Madam President. As Mr. Manev said, we are not mistaken in foreign love, it was unclean, but here was made a very serious difference. Yes, you are quoting coalition partners of GERB, who were clear, obvious, broadcast in front of the public. Every coalition that took place with the participation of this parliamentary group in this plenary was clear, behind it were the names of specific political forces for which someone voted in elections, however. Now this is the right place, Mr. Babikan, when you said.......................................................................................... Obviously, the trend is to disrupt and unite subsequently. Tell me who? With whom will this new group be formed, or to whom will you join, and for what reason did you not then, when the time was right? Why didn't you join those who now suddenly somehow recognized, and you remembered at the last moment to break away, to use the yes, the mathematical sum, as already mentioned, and to do some things that are not only unclean, they are cynical indeed to your own constituents, who will surely say the word and the opinion of you on the next day? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u268	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Babikan, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u269	Madam President, honourable Members! When it comes to love, I suggest you shut up and focus on pictures of a bed, drawer and gun. Your party was conceived precisely in this sin. A member of parliament left the NDSV and declared himself GERB's representative. Your party! In that order of thought, it's good to be a little more modest. When the spokesperson mentioned our entry into the European Union a moment ago, it is good to focus and see who worked for the entry into the European Union, the Bulgarian right hand, finally the Bulgarian left and its prime minister, not GERB. You were absent from this trial, so I ask you to be an idea more modest. I see you're very witty, you've been having a lot of dreams about a split, you won't dream of it, but think of you, don't take care of us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u270	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. For procedure Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u271	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the item is accepted from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u272	Thank you. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 172 against 7, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Any other speeches? Here you go. [[Reply from the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov: "Apply to put on their masks! "]] Please put on your masks! Thank you, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u273	My fellow Members, I have listened carefully to the debates on this point. I would like to say that, Mr. Babikan, you have a legal basis, if you will have a basis, for each Member of the National Assembly as its own, as an individual institution, to have the right to determine itself, but this amendment to the Rules of Procedure I accept it as follows. It gives the people's representative the right to put himself above the framework that the sovereign has set, i.e. to go beyond this framework. In this sense, I do not consider it acceptable and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is going to vote against this amendment. That's the basis. You're right, but the people's representative can't go outside the framework he's been given by a sovereign. That's the starting point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u274	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. Voting mode. Please vote on the Commission's sanction not to support the proposal for art. 13. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It doesn't have a text, it's a proposal. There's no import text, there's a proposal. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] There are two approaches: one approach is to vote on the Commission's sanction that it does not support, which means that it supports the Commission's sanction is for the Commission. The second approach is to vote on the very proposal of the MPs and vote on it so that there is no confusion. But since we started the first vote with the sanction, as so far has been the rule in the National Assembly, if it is easier for you to vote on the proposals themselves, fine. [[Loud noise.]] Procedure? Okay. Cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u275	Colleagues, I propose that we vote on the Commission's sanction because the text of the proposal is read anyway. Please, we are voting on the Commission's sanction. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u276	So we are continuing on the first approach,.......................the Commission's sanction which does not support the proposal for art............................................................... 13. Voting mode. Please vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] For the Commission's sanction, that's right. Vote 204 MPs: 198, against 5, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted and the proposal for article is not supported. 13. We're moving on, report to Art. 15. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The proposal for a change in art. 13. Continue under art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u277	Thank you, Madam President. The next proposal is from the MPs Nikolai Hadzhigenov, Maria Kapon and others: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15, para. 5 is amended as follows: (5) A Member of the National Assembly who has left or been expelled from a parliamentary group shall become a non-member of a parliamentary group and may be accepted as a member of another parliamentary group. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[Noise and lines from ISM.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u278	You're withdrawing him. And the next one under art. 23? [[ISV lines.]] Yeah, okay. So you're withdrawing art. Article 15 23. Proceed further............................................................................................. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u279	The next proposal is from the MPs Atanas Slavov and colleagues: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: the first sentence is amended as follows: The Chief Prosecutor shall hear at least every three months regarding the application of the law and the activities of prosecutors and investigating bodies, including legislative changes, resource assurance, difficulties relating to the performance of these bodies, results in the fight against crime, including corruption, interaction with investigative bodies. The Attorney General is obliged to appear before the committee. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u280	Statements? Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u281	Madam President, colleagues! The editorial that we have proposed is that it is imperative that the Chief Prosecutor appear in the Commission after such an invitation is made and that this happens at least every three months. At the moment, the norm is more of a wishful thinking. We all know how often the Chief Prosecutor was called to the National Assembly and how often he came here. If we are talking about real democratic control and accountability of the prosecution, it is the least we can do. Our proposal is actually a test of the readiness of this National Assembly to at least use parliamentary opportunities for democratic accountability and control of the prosecution, as given by the 2015 amendment in the Constitution. My call is to vote on this proposal that we have made in order to demonstrate the will for democratic accountability and control over the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor General. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u282	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Yordanov, a line or a statement? Okay, for the line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u283	There is such a people that we believe that Mr. Slavov's proposal should be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u284	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u285	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, we also support the editorial proposal that my colleague made just now and my memory yesterday from the Commission is that the Commission also supported this revision. Maybe it's a technical mistake, the Commission does not support the proposal. We also support this proposal by Slavov and a group of MPs. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u286	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Hamid, you have the floor. [[Loud noise and lines.]] A hole? Mr. Slavov, do you want the floor? No. Mr. Hamid, come in. Mr. Slavov doesn't seem to want the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u287	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Let me remind you of some invitations for hearings of other large in the judiciary, the 44th National Assembly of several times called for the chairman of one of the Supreme Courts, and on several occasions the Presidency received reports that because this President had another job, he could not come now. I therefore propose that we add to this proposal the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the President of the Supreme Administrative Court to the three big ones to go together. And we will support this proposal. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u288	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u289	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The way we've driven them into a home book, Mr. Hamid, to take advantage of our parliamentary group, we have an Armenian pop to call him in. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Outside the entertaining side of things to pay attention to you, for GERB I suppose it is unknown, the court is an arbitrator, it solves disputes between the countries.. The prosecution is a party. This is the reason why the prosecution and the attorney general should be here, to answer the questions about what is going on with this investigation, for example, about the stacks and drawers, I am very curious, and I have prepared another deck of questions. What question could we ask the chairman of the Supreme Court? Why did you decide what you did?! [[Noise and lines.]] Thus does the court judge as it sees fit. Therefore, such a proposal should not be commented at all. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u290	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Was that a statement? Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] It was a statement, Slavov was before that. [[Noise and lines.]] Was that Hamid's line? Okay, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u291	For Mr. Hamid's cue. Look, the issue is really extremely important, fundamental and it is good to clarify it once and for all. There is a difference between the Attorney General and the Presidents of the two Supreme Courts. The very construction of the three large is vicious and creates the structural prerequisite for the problems in the judiciary that we have. Colleague Hadjigenov explained and I want to repeat this thing. This text in the Constitution is addressed to the Attorney General for a reason. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court, which clearly states: The Chief Prosecutor is responsible for the implementation of the state-owned criminal policy, contrary to what a district court in Plovdiv has said: The Court has no policy. The court has no policy! In this sense, the fundamental difference is. That's why the Venice Commission forced you not to introduce a reporting procedure for the three big ones, but for the Attorney General. The Attorney General exercises different powers, applies state policy. It is therefore logical to be much closer to Parliament and to report to it, unlike the presidents of the supreme courts, which are some administrators. Of course, for them there are both within the budgetary procedure and at other moments when they need to cooperate with Parliament, but these are different in their nature figures. In this sense, it is wicked to align, and this insistence on their alignment is part of... [[(Reply from GERB-SDS: It is a fact!]] It's not a fact! [[(Reply from GERB-SDS: In the law is a fact!]] What's in the law?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u292	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u293	...for the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u294	But in the Judicial Law, Mr. Bikov, there is no such thing as the three big ones, which at one point were even four big ones, because they were joined by the Minister of Justice, God forbid. It's folklore, it's a legal folklore that, however, reflects a vicious constitutional situation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm out of time. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] But we're working on it, we're working on it! And by the way, in 2015, a step was taken in this direction to distinguish between the Attorney General and the three major ones. [[(GERB's line: It's like that.]] Don't go back to that levelling. [[Applause from ICN, ISV, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u295	That's right. For a third line? I won't. Mr. Hamid, for the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u296	I don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u297	All right, let's move on. Statements? There are no other speeches. There's a proposal made by Mr. Hamid. But, Mr. Hamid, you need to clarify your proposal, because in a sentence first, it concerns only the Attorney General and his activities. There is no connection with the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court, they are in sentence two, where the deliberations there are at their initiative. Will you make a concrete proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u298	Like I did in the second sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u299	What's the specific? That is, to put in a new second sentence that the Committee on Legal Affairs hears at least once the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court. [[Reply of MP Hamid Hamid.]] Okay. I propose then to create a new sentence second in art. 27, which sounds like the following: The President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court shall be heard at least once every three months. Voting mode. [[Loud noise and lines.]] We're in voting mode now. [[People's representative from DB is approaching the stands. Explanations with the Chair.]] Yes, they will vote separately. Please vote on Mr Hamid's proposal for a hearing to the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court. Vote 188 MPs: 116, against 70, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u300	Procedure! Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u301	I'm putting it to the vote now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u302	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u303	Okay. Revoting! Please reschedule the proposal made by Mr Hamid, which I have read. They voted 203 MPs: 121, against 80, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Savov. [[((Replys.))]] He made his point. Here, the system reminds me that you have taken the floor in substance and you have no right under the Rules of Negative Vot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u304	For a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u305	Yes, come in for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u306	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! What we have seen today is that obviously the Venice Commission, no matter how many times it writes to you in some way, understood by you, that the Attorney General and the Presidents of the Supreme Administrative and Supreme Court of Cassation are not of the same status, you cannot understand it. It's backstage again, which so far has been supporting the Attorney General like a soft egg! [[Applause from ICN, ISV, DB.]] Once again GERB, DPS and BSP stood as one to save the Attorney General. [[Strong noise and lines from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] From what?! In what language should the Venice Commission tell you that the Prosecutor General is not equal in status with the Presidents of the Supreme Courts? [[Noise and lines.]] In what language should the Venice Commission explain that the Prosecutor General owes the National Assembly a report? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u307	Mrs. Nikolova...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u308	Madam President, may I have order?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u309	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u310	The gentlemen of GERB are on the market!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u311	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u312	Is that a negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u313	Yeah, negative vote! Thank you very much, gentlemen and ladies! Today you showed the entire Bulgarian people how you vote when it comes to Mr. Geshev! [[Applause from ICN, ISV, DB. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Quiet, please! I'd like to make one clarification. We have now voted on Mr Hamid's proposal to supplement the text of art. 27 of the Rules of Procedure. Currently we have not voted on the proposal of Slavov, Velov and Yordanova. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Now I'm going to put it to the vote... [[The National Representative Hristo Ivanov wants the floor.]] For a negative vote, okay. [[Strong noise from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Ivanov had made a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u315	It was a line, and that's why my time stopped. You remember? And I kept my... Ms. Nino, because there were big speeches about the majority here, I want to say now really, and to hear it well, the majority of the Attorney General has been seen. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo! "The parliamentary groups of ISN, ISM, DB.)]] I would like to ask my colleagues from GERB: why is your program providing for the separation of the Supreme Judicial Council finally? Why? What's the difference, and if there's a difference, why are we going back to this equation? That is why we are voting against this proposal. It's fundamentally vicious. You continue to hybridize a court and a prosecutor's office so that you can justify the possibility of the Attorney General and the members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the prosecutors' quota to continue interfering with the work of the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u316	REPLICA: In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u317	You continue to align the status between the two professions so that you can protect the stability of the status quo in the prosecution, which is toxic. Bulgaria is under three "three"! .. the monitoring. Three monitors! Because here you have stood on the subject of who it was about joining the European Union, right, Mr. Nenkov? We have three monitorings in the area of justice!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u318	You know so much about justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u319	As far as I can tell, the citizens voted for me. By the way, I don't know how much I understand, but the Venice Commission says very clearly. The European Commission wrote in its latest report that Bulgaria has a problem with the accountability of the Prosecutor General. It's not about the accountability of the two big guys anywhere. [[Applause from the parliamentary groups of ICN, ISV, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u320	He's coming to the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u321	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. What's your procedure? Mr. Hamid's manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u322	Madam President, you were very clear and precise when you made a remark that this proposal concerns a hearing of the two presidents of the Supreme Courts. We don't vote at all whether he's coming or not the Attorney General is coming. My request to you is next time to repeat in a much higher voice to repeat and to the third because there are people who have not yet understood what we voted on. And, don't worry, the Attorney General will come. We will support this proposal, but you will not continue to hide Lozanne Panov from the National Assembly. [[Loud noise and applause by GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u323	Thank you. For what procedure? It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u324	Since Mr. Hristo Ivanov mentioned me by name, I would like to recall this. Mr. Ivanov, you were not an MP in the previous parliament. Then we set up the procedure for the hearing of the Chief Prosecutor in the Parliament, on a proposal from the BSP and at the request of the BSP, and we implemented this procedure. And when Mr. Geshev came to picture the report from this tribune, we voted against the report and from here in his eyes, he was sitting in the back, we asked him for his resignation immediately. [[(Loud applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo!]] So don't manipulate public opinion again. This is our practice from the 44th National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u325	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u326	We reaffirm today in the 45th. Perhaps I am starting every statement I make with the fact that we are principled and consistent. And, yes, as in the 44th Mr. Geshev, we want your resignation and now, in the 45th! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And as we voted to come to a hearing with you and the VCC, so we will vote to come to a hearing with Mr. Gheshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u327	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u328	And with that, we are simply continuing our consistent policy towards the judiciary from four years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u329	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u330	And it is: the resignation of Geshev, the closure of the specialized court and the special prosecutor's office, a new law on KKCONPI and judicial control over the acts of the Prosecutor General........................ If we want a serious reform of the judiciary, then let our proposals not be oriented towards one person or another Geshev or Lozanne Panov, but be principled and ensure justice in the judiciary for anyone, whether rich or poor, politician or not. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We are going to vote on the proposal made by the MPs Slavov, Velov and Yordanova for a change in art. 27. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You shall vote on the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Along with Hamid Hamid. [[Heckling]] You want me to read it to you, fine. You want me to read you the whole text? [[Heckling]] Okay. [[(National Representative Toshko Yordanov:]] Tell me, Mr. Yordanov! We're in voting procedure, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u332	Voting procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I'll ask the chairman not to... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u333	What's your procedure? I'm calling off the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u334	You can't! Let the vote pass, let the vote finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u335	Let's get it over with then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u336	Let's finish the vote then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u337	Vote... [[Noise and lines. Replies of the National Representative Nadezhda Yordanova.]] That is not true, I said that we are voting on the proposal of Slavov, Velov and Yordanova for a change in art. 27 as imported. [[(Replications of the National Representative Nadezhda Yordanova, away from the microphones: You voted the committee as...............................................................................................]] No! It was the vote, but we're in reverse here. Because you want to vote on the proposal and we went to vote on Mr Hamid's proposal. What Mr. Popov from the BSP for Bulgaria did as a suggestion is to read the text as proposed by Mr. Hamid and vote the whole proposal together.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u338	And now we're voting what?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u339	And now I'm going to read it to vote on this proposal together. Do you agree? Colleagues, please! I suggest I read the proposal, as it will be in full, with the proposal that we adopted just now on Mr Hamid. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The first sentence is amended as follows: at least every three months the Chief Prosecutor shall hear about the application of the law and the activities of the prosecution and investigating bodies, including legislative changes, resource security, difficulties related to the performance of these bodies, results in the fight against crime, including corruption, interaction with the investigating authorities. New sentences are being created - second and third: The Chief Prosecutor is obliged to appear before the committee. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall, at least once every three months, hear the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u340	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u341	Please vote on the so read proposal. [[National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva wants the floor.]] We're in voting mode now! [[Replications of the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva.]] Because it's on theirs. [[(Replications of the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva: Ours has not been put to the vote.]] You just want us to vote on yours? But it can't because it's already accepted. Colleagues, when a proposal is adopted, it shall be voted in favour of the main proposal, which shall lead. This is the rule of law procedure. Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 189 MPs: 189, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Proceed further, Mr. Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u342	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The following are two proposals for amendment in art. 31, para. 1. The first is the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 at the end of the sentence the second comma is placed and the text is added to the Facebook page of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a second proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Nadezhda Yordanova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 sentence 2 is amended as follows: The meetings are broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1 which becomes § 2 with the following content: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. The 1st sentence is amended as follows: The meetings are broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, as well as in the official profiles of the National Assembly in social networks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u343	Are there any statements for art. 31? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 1 as it was read by the President of the Commission. Vote 194 MPs: 191, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u344	The next proposal is from the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Nadezhda Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u345	Don't read it, just the Commission's sanction.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u346	The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 2 which becomes § 3 with the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 a new sentence second and third sentence shall be created: "Citizens shall state their names at the e-mail address or the telephone number of the committee concerned before the beginning of the meeting at which they wish to attend. The Commission shall immediately register the requests received and send them to the staff for the issue of a citizens' omission. 2. In para. 2 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u347	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the proposal so read by the President of the Commission. Vote 186 MPs: for 139, there is no objection, abstention 47. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u348	The next proposal is of the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Nadezhda Yordanova, as the proposal under point. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and does not support it by t. 3. The Commission proposes to establish § 3 which becomes § 4 with the following wording: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. The second sentence is
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u349	Thank you. Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u350	Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday and to the Commission, we expressed our opinion on this topic. This concerns the meeting of the committees. 2, the so-called falling quorum. If the committees in this Parliament work at all, I am telling you that they will be very difficult, because not a small number of committees also implies the matching of certain hours at each meeting, and respectively certain MPs are members of one committee or another. That way, dropping out of par. 2, In practice, some of the committees will be deprived of the opportunity to sit. In any case, there are representatives of the relevant political power who may be present in each committee, there may be sick MPs who cannot attend, you know, may have seconded and, in practice, the Commission meeting will be ruined if the possibility of working under the conditions of a falling quorum is cancelled. Imagine a hypothesis in which we have a bill that urgently needs to be adopted, which needs to be reviewed. The committee's sitting fails and therefore the bill cannot be reviewed, therefore it cannot pass in the Chamber. This is a practice that has been established in recent years in the work of the National Assembly, has not been changed so far. I understand the effect of disciplining the MPs to attend the committees, but in practice you deprive them of the possibility given the number of committees, given the number of members in them to work normally in these committees. Otherwise, they must run from one committee to another without even understanding the contents of the agenda, as they cannot focus on the work of the relevant committee, which is of interest to them, entering the next, things will enter an extremely vicious circle and blocking the work of the committees. Thank you. Our group will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u351	Thank you. - What's the line? Replica "St. Ivan Velov."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u352	Hey, guys! The proposal relates to the fact that until now there has been a wicked practice of accepting proposals from committees with a very small number of its members. Therefore, this should be removed, as some may find it uncomfortable, and they want to do something else rather than go to committee. [[Replications from the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Okay. That's our motive. A very small number of committee members cannot adopt decisions and then present themselves as proposals to the committee responsible. That's unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u353	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. Statements? I won't. A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u354	Madam President, honourable Members! It is normal for this proposal to be made by MPs who have not worked in committee until now and will hardly work in this Parliament, but there are still three committees that are obviously working, at least their work not to stumble, because there are duplicate colleagues there. You see that GERB put you into a trap, will support you for this thing, but you will feel it on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u355	Are you against discipline, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u356	Why didn't you do it in the previous term?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u357	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] He's only on the Commission, he's on the Commission. ) (a.k.a. 1 is withdrawn, is supported by t. 2 and only the unsupported by t. 3 of art. 33 we have to vote. I put to the vote the unsupported part of the proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Nadezhda Yordanova. Vote 167 MPs: 140, against 21, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. [[Heckling]] The proposal is not to support it. 3. What did you vote on now? [[Heckling]] Did we vote the other way around? [[Heckling]] We voted the other way around. Okay, okay. For the amendment of para. Four? [[Heckling]] Okay. That's why I'm offering you. You will not be confused if we go on the proposals of the MPs, not on the Commission's sanction, because otherwise you are confused, and the Commission's sanction will only be where there are final editorials. [[Heckling]] Okay. It's a re-vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly to amend para. 4 in art. 33. Vote 172 MPs: 129, against 27, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u358	Madam President, I suggest a 15-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u359	I'm calling a 15-minute recess. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u360	Let's move on, guys. As we agreed before the meeting was interrupted, we are continuing and voting on the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly, as we have only one reading and a decision supposed only proposals and we do not have a basic text. In this way, we are continuing our votes on a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u361	What happens to the committees?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u362	The Rules of Procedure shall be postponed and held after the meeting has been concluded if their chairmen wish them to be held. They will simply be postponed, there can be no committees during plenary, you know. They will simply be postponed for some minutes.. within 15 minutes after the meeting is concluded, but this is at the discretion of the President of the Commission. Colleagues, the proposal under art. 33 of the MPs Slavov, Velov and Yordanova to amend para. 4. We are now voting on the Commission's sanction to create § 3, which becomes § 4, in art. 33, para. The second sentence shall be deleted together with the proposed amendment to para. 4. Vote 165 MPs: 145 against 19, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u363	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The next proposal is the MPs Atanas Slavov and the next. The Commission supports this proposal and proposes to establish § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 3 the number 2. A new para is being created. 4. (4) Where a bill is required to be dealt with urgently and under a reasoned decision of the committee concerned, adopted by a majority of all its members, the period of 72 hours under para. 3 may be shortened to 24 hours. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u364	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u365	Colleagues, I am making an editorial proposal, and the expression taken by a majority of all its members to fall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u366	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs. Yordanova to drop out in this regard. 2 on the new para. 4 of the words adopted by a majority of all its members. Vote 180 MPs: 102, against 5, abstention 73. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 4 as it was read to you by Mr. Dochev, along with the editorial amendment already adopted. They voted 165 MPs: 146, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dochev, report to Art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u367	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! The next proposal is from the MP Atanas Slavov and colleagues for editing of art. 40. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u368	Paragraph 5, which becomes § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u369	In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 40 the following amendments and additions are made: 1.The current text becomes para. 1. 2.Create para. 2: (2) The Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints shall hold a regular joint meeting with the Public Council by representatives of non-governmental organisations every six months, as well as an extraordinary meeting at the initiative of the Commission or the Council. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u370	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 165, none against, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u371	The next proposal is from the National Representative Maya Manolova and a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Slavov and colleagues. The Commission supports these proposals and proposes to create § 6 which becomes § 7 with the following wording: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 41 the following amendments and additions are made: 1.In para. 2 is finally placed comma and added to the official profiles of the National Assembly in social networks. 2.In para. 3 the words supposed to the Members of the National Assembly shall be replaced by the Members of the National Assembly in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u372	Statements? I won't. Please vote. Vote 185 MPs: for 185, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u373	Proposal from the MPs Nikolai Hadzhigenov, Maria Kapon and others. The Commission does not support this proposal. screeting sessions and meetings of the National Assembly In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 1 is changed as follows:.14:00 is changed by 18:00
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u374	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the proposal. Vote 186 MPs: 10, against 123, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u375	The next proposal is from the MPs Nikolai Hadzhigenov, Maria Kapon and others: In the chapter "Searchs and meetings of the National Assembly, in art. 51, para. 3 the following change is made: the BNT2 is replaced by the BNT1 is replaced by the BNT1 is replaced by the BNT1 is replaced by the BNT1 is replaced by the BNT2 is replaced by the BNT1 is replaced by [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u376	What are you reading? Only the Commission's sanction is read unsupported.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u377	The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u378	Have you read the Commission's sanction for § 7?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u379	The proposal of the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs is for...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u380	Give the sanction to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u381	The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to create § 7, which becomes § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51 the following 1.In para. 1 is finally placed comma and added to the official profiles of the National Assembly in social networks. 2.In para. 3 after the words "Parliamentary control" shall be added "including under art. The words "BNT 2" shall be replaced by "BNT 1" and the words "BNT 2" shall be replaced by "BNT 1" and "BNT 2" shall be replaced by "BNT 1" and "BNT 2" shall be replaced by "BNT 1" and "BNT 2" shall be replaced by "BNT 1" and "BNT 2" shall be replaced by "BNT 2" and "BNT 2"
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u382	Thank you. Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u383	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, because in the past I have had an attitude towards BNT and public media at all, I would like to ask you not to replace BNT 2 with BNT 1 for the following reasons: firstly, that BNT 2 has been selected is an established parliamentary practice and it has been imposed precisely because there is a problem with the broadcasts on BNT 1. I would not like to lecture on the mission of public media and the function of their first programmes, I would just say that BBC 1 never broadcasts parliamentary control to the British Parliament. The BBC has a special parliamentary programme, which, by the way, is provided for in our rules, which, unfortunately, has not been implemented yet, and I think it needs to happen. It is absolutely impossible for the British Parliament to request that the BBC 1 programme be suspended so that its meetings or anyone else can be broadcast. Imagine it as a production company that has its own cycle. It is a conveyor. It's 24-hour continuous production, and we just pulled the plug and told him to rearrange the entire production. You have no idea what kind of stress we're talking about, and you have no idea what kind of losses we're talking about, because these are contracts for broadcasting, these are commercial contracts. I do not know why the National Assembly allows an enterprise to be placed continuously in a situation of force majeure because it is a force majeure. So, very please, I understand that it is nice to look at yourself on Channel 1, but let's think first about the public mission of public television, let's think about the stress and losses that are being produced, of these two enterprises - BNT and BNR. Finally, colleagues, there will be a lot of talk in the coming days about 112th place. Let me just point out that in no European country, in any Member State of the European Union, it is not possible for Parliament to intervene in such a harsh way in the programme of an independent public operator. That is, one of the reasons why we are in the 112th place - perhaps not explicitly said - is that none of the authorities should interfere with the independent media and thus intervene in their programme. [[Noise and lines from ISM.]] No, no, I'm just saying that to be correct. So please don't replace BNT 2 with BNT 1. I am proposing to the next panel of the media committee to be elected to make every effort to create parliamentary channels of BNR and BNT, which are separate and independent from their main programmes. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u384	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Babikan, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u385	Madam President, honourable Members! I think most of you have been on TV for a long time. Some as ministers, others as MPs, and Mr. Cholakov's concerns are unwarranted. I don't think that's the passion of the gym. To discuss here the stress of the workers in Channel 1 I think it is a little comical, because we will then have to discuss the stress of the workers in Channel 2 of BNT, then discuss the stress of the people working in BNR, who have no chance to do so in any other way than under the Horizon. So let's skip to the stress of the workers. If someone very much insists on performing only a public mission, then he must stop his advertising contracts, otherwise he must stop his income from the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. Resetting the program is easy, though boring for viewers. If this parliamentary channel had started functioning, you would probably have some reason. Alas, it has not begun to function. I suspect it is because of the inability of the people in power to do this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u386	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Procedure Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u387	Madam President, colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal to put the item separately to the vote. 1 et c. 2 of § 7, for example, our parliamentary group will support the first point, but we do not agree with point 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u388	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. There is also a proposal from Mr. Cholakov for dropping an expression, so he will also be put to the vote. Any other speeches? I put to the vote the so-called procedural proposal made by Mrs. Vasileva for a split vote on this point. 1 et cetera. 2. Vote 191 MPs: 182 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Are there any other statements on this article? I won't. First, I put to the vote Mr. Cholakov's proposal for dropping the expression in point. 2: and the words "BNT 2" shall be replaced by "BNT 1." Vote 180 MPs: 118 against 56, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u389	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u390	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u391	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My request to you is that when you read the proposal itself, specify exactly what we are voting on, whether the text itself or the proposal that has been made by the Member of the National Assembly or by the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u392	I said it twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u393	...because in plenary there is confusion and a large part of the MPs, as there are new colleagues, are confused. For this reason, read the proposal itself and put to the vote the very proposal of the text so that there is no confusion in the House. Thank you. Please, re-vote procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u394	There was a proposal made by Mr. Cholakov and I therefore put it to the vote because the proposal of the MPs Hadjigenov, Kapon, Babikan is supported by the Commission. That is why I correctly put to the vote Mr. Cholakov's proposal for dropping the expression in § 7 on the Commission, which becomes § 8, and the words It's a re-vote. Vote 188 MPs: 123 against 56, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Capon, for procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u395	Yeah. Madam President, honourable Members, it makes no sense not to vote on the proposal of the importers, to have a version of the Commission which is supposedly supported and to only vote on the opposite proposal. I'm sorry, but that violates parliamentaryism from everywhere except confusion. I mean, first of all, we vote on the proposal, which belongs to the importers, and please...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u396	It's backed up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u397	...to vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u398	It's backed up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u399	Well, look, in all the years, GERB must have had some procedures and we're following your rules, but that's ridiculous. The proposal of the importers cannot not be voted at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u400	Mrs Kapon, the proposal of the importers is supported by the Commission and is therefore not voted on. The most remote proposals shall be voted on. In this case, your proposal is supported by the Commission............................................................................................ The final decision is in plenary, not the Commission. I'm going to vote on this. 1 for a change in para. 1 on the Commission report. Vote 185 MPs: for 184, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I'm putting it to the vote now. 2 with the following edit, after the vote on Mr. Cholakov's proposal: In para. 3 after the words "Parliamentary control" shall be added "including under art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. Vote 182 MPs: 169 against 8, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dochev, proceed with art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u401	Mrs. Chairman! Proposal of the MPs Victoria Vasileva and Tatyana Doncheva. The proposal referred to in point (b) is made. The Commission shall support the proposal referred to in point (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph. The Commission proposes to create § 8, which becomes § 9: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 3 after the word "swoorum', the voting system shall be added. 2. The creation of para. 5. In the case of a vote on an act referred to in Article 5, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts adopted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution or of its separate part or provision, the total number of votes shall be less than 121 Members of the National Assembly, the President shall check the existence of a quorum and the vote shall be repeated.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u402	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Vassileva, for procedure? Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u403	Madam President, colleagues! I am again making a procedural proposal for a separate vote on the two points in § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u404	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Speeches other than that? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal which has been made for a split vote on this point. 1 and 2 of the amendment of art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u405	Is that for the split vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u406	For a separate vote. They voted 193 MPs: 113 against 14, 66 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move on to the vote on § 8, which becomes § 9. I'm voting on it. 1 of § 8. Please vote on it. 1 of § 8, which becomes § 9. Vote 184 MPs: for 183, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Now I'm putting it to the vote. 2 of § 8. They voted 189 MPs: for 101, against 46, abstention 42. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dochev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u407	Madam President! Proposal of MPs Nikolai Hadzhigenov, Maria Kapon and others. The Commission does not support this proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u408	No, it's getting more and more articulate. 53. Continue, Mr. Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u409	Proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 8, p. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u410	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u411	Unsupported must be read.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u412	Didn't he read it? Mr. Dochev, read the unsupported proposal. In the chapter of the...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u413	In the chapter addressed, sessions and meetings of the National Assembly. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 to drop Al. 8th para. 9 becomes respectively. 7 and para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u414	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Hadjigenov, Kapon, Babikan and Vasileva, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 190 MPs: 36, against 124, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on. Mr. Dochev, please report to Art. 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u415	Mrs. Chairman! Proposal from the MPs Victoria Vasileva and Tatyana Doncheva. The Commission supports the proposal referred to in (a) and does not support it under (b).
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u416	Please read the letter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u417	(b) in para. The President shall be entitled to an explanation and shall be replaced by a breach of a specific provision in these Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u418	Thank you. Report to the Commission now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u419	The Commission proposes to create § 9, which becomes § 10. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 55, para. 2 in the text before t. 1 the words "specific violation of the procedure for holding the meetings provided for' shall be replaced by a breach of a specific provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u420	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Yes, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u421	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, we cannot support the proposal proposed and supported by the Commission for § 9 and I will tell you why. Not always, quite well-intentioned, the request for a procedure in the manner of conduct of the President is related to a specific text of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because any Member of the National Assembly, whether a ruling or opposition, may have, for example, specific claims in the way, if you will, of giving the floor, or that he has not given a reply to one or another, or an example of disorder of order, but is not always related only to the Rules. And this is something that has always been this way in this Parliament. No one allowed themselves to change that. This is basically one way to plug the BSP so proclaimed in recent years the mouth of the opposition. Although I do not like this cliché, it is a kind of attempt to limit the possibility of correcting the behaviour and manner of conduct of the President himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u422	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u423	For a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u424	Any lines to Mr. Nenkov? Yes, well, here you go, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u425	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nenkov, no one intends to restrict anyone to any rights. We just want these rights to be used in good faith, not everyone to take the floor in the manner of holding a meeting and to talk about the lanish snow. Once you know what is broken in the Rules, be so kind as to say the specific provision that is broken. There's no violation in general. There is a breach of a specific provision in a regulation. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u426	[[GERB-SDS, from place]] : In the manner of holding this is the specific provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u427	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Any other lines? Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u428	Madam President! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I would rather supplement you, taking the text in this way, what will happen? The following will happen: we must say in advance which provision we want in the manner of conduct. The President must check in the Rules of Procedure or decide on an eye whether to give the floor or not to give the floor. Surely this will create more tension in the Chamber than if it allows the MP to come to the stand. The Member of the National Assembly will start to speak, and if the President considers that this is not the correct use of this procedure, he will simply take the floor away from him. There is no way in advance that the President knows who will make the right use of this procedure and who is incorrect. Do not proceed from the Friday sitting, which was an emergency. Not every sitting, you see, now two or three sittings are then, not always all sittings are like this. My point is as follows, you will assign the President of Parliament too heavy a responsibility for him to judge personally by eye and the risk of making a mistake and increasing tensions is much greater and everything will go on top of it. And because Mrs. Miteva is nice to me, I want to protect her from it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u429	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For a third line? Mr. Nenkov, for the back? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u430	Madam President! In the beginning, I am quite well-intentioned to this § 9. Yes, in the years back, based on parliamentary practice, there have been such moments, including we have abused this opportunity some time, including other colleagues, it is a fact, but we have never allowed ourselves to limit this as an opportunity in the past. Here is already the role of the President to assess, when a Member of the National Assembly comes out and takes the manner of conducting procedure, whether it is correct or not. But not always, again, not always the manner of conduct means a specific provision in the Rules. There are a lot of things that aren't scheduled. There are no hundred percent of perfect rules to regulate in every situation, every single solution. And indeed, my colleague Bikov is right. This will burden you with this responsibility to assess at the moment whether a specific provision is broken or not. I'm just giving you advice, and of course you can take whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u431	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. To make a statement, I think Mr. Popov had said first. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u432	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Even in the very etymology of the word parliament from an old French parle means conversation, talk, dialogue. What is proposed in these Rules is, in practice, a limitation of this possibility for the following reasons: Firstly, when it comes to procedural matters, the word is given immediately, which means that if a Member of the National Assembly wants a procedure in the manner of conduct, he must draw up these rules, according to this proposal, here are currently over 100 provisions, over 110. 115 members, should do a check on all these 110. 115 members, to see which of them is violated, which must be done instantly, literally in less than a minute, because the word is given immediately, then the President of the National Assembly should do the same check, which will take much more time for the entire parliament to carry out this insane inspection, which is really... [[shows rules]] In addition, the President of Parliament is now, and in the future, entitled to take away the speaker's word, that is, to sanction him if he goes beyond these rules. And that, at the moment, the President may be able to assess it. It does not have to be limited and practically impossible to perform by all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u433	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A line? Mrs. Manolova. Any other lines? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u434	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u435	Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u436	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up! Goons out of the way!...will not support this proposal. I agree with much of what has been put forward so far without the qualifications that have been used. It is a legal principle that when a person points to a breach of law, of rules, it is not obliged to specify the text on which the infringement is qualified and I do not see why this principle should be changed for the work of Parliament. Apart from that, I myself, except that I have abused this procedure, but also always, whether I was on one side or on the other, in opposition or in government, have insisted that the Rules of Parliament be as democratic as possible, so we will not support this proposal. Furthermore, I think that this proposal does not need President Miteva, who can certainly deal with any extreme situation in the plenary. Such situations happen where it is really up to the President whether or not he will control the Members of the National Assembly. I believe Eva Miteva will deal with this challenge and she does not need these security texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u437	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Vassileva and Doncheva for change in para. 4 of art. 55 This is a letter from their proposal. Vote 190 MPs: 50, against 130, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the Commission's proposal to create § 9, which becomes § 10. Please vote on the Commission proposal for art. 55. Vote 186 MPs: 44, against 136 abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u438	Madam President, there is a proposal of the MPs Victoria Vasileva and Tatyana Doncheva, which is not supported by the Commission: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 58, para. 3, p. 3 words other than those referring to the manner in which the meeting is held shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u439	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 192 MPs: 43 against 143, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u440	Proposal of the MPs Victoria Vasileva and Tatyana Doncheva. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Victoria Vasileva and Tatyana Doncheva. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create § 10 which becomes § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u441	He dropped out, so it's still § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u442	..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u443	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. Statements? I won't. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u444	What does the importer mean by this change?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u445	They voted 185 MPs: 117, against 33, abstention 35. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u446	Madam President, the next proposal is from the MPs Nikolai Hadzhigenov, Maria Kapon and others. The motion has been withdrawn. The next proposal is from the same MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: "In the chapter of the National Assembly Sessions and Meetings, in art. 65 drops the sentence "They can take the floor whenever they ask for it." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65 Drops on a certain question. Proposal by the MPs Atanas Slavov and others: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 65th sentence is amended as follows: "They can take the floor whenever they want it on matters relating to their competence. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second sentence is amended as follows: at their request, they shall be heard with priority.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u447	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Hadjigenov, Kapon, Babikian, Vasileva for changes in art. 65, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 184 MPs: 22, against 143, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Savov, Velov, Yordanova for a change in art. 65, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 185 MPs: 17 against 146, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 11 and amend art. 65. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 115, against 66, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Continue, Mr. Dochev, with art. 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u448	There is a proposal from the MPs Victoria Vasileva and Tatiana Doncheva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on The motion has been withdrawn. The next proposal of the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 4 as in the rest of it was withdrawn by importers. Proposal of the MP Atanas Slavov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in a sentence, first after the words "e-mails" shall be added, or fully electronically, as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures sent to the e-mail address of the proceedings of the National Assembly. (b) in the second sentence of point 2. 1 the words................................................................................................... (c) in the third sentence, the end of the sentence shall be added s in accordance with art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on 2. A new para is being created. 6 and para. 7 and 8: * When the drafts are submitted by the Council of Ministers, they shall be sent electronically to the electronic address of the National Assembly's proceedings signed with a qualified electronic signature by the Prime Minister and the Secretary-General of the Administration of the Council of Ministers. (7) For the drafts submitted by the Members of the National Assembly shall apply the requirements for public consultations under art. 26, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts, with a section being created on the website of the National Assembly, which publishes information on current or public consultations. The administration of public consultations shall be carried out by the administration of the National Assembly. (8) Where bills are submitted by Members of the National Assembly, including written proposals for amendments and additions to the bill adopted at first vote or the draft joint bill, they may be subject to: 1. a reference to information on whether meetings have been held and with which stakeholders; 2. a reference to information on whether the bill has been developed by persons or organizations external to the National Assembly and who they are. 3. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u449	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. May I ask for clarification? I don't know how to formulate my procedure with regard to para. 5 for public consultation. My question is: should I not distribute the bills or if there is a bill to which no public consultation has been applied? This is not provided for in the text of art. 76, as provided for in the other hypotheses for the Council of Ministers. Thank you. Mr. Popov, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u450	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, my speech actually overlaps with some of your questions. My question to the Commission or, more precisely, to the importers of these changes is the following: when the bill, which has been submitted by the Members of the National Assembly, is not accompanied by this reference, whether meetings have been held, with which interested parties, a reference to information on whether the bill has been developed by persons and organisations external to the National Assembly, who are they and so on? Does this not mean, in practice, a limitation of the legislative initiative of the Members of the National Assembly? If this reference is not applied to the Bill, what happens here and there? Will you distribute it on committees, will you upload it on the website, will the Bill ever go on to become a law eventually, or will it not go? And if it does not go, is this not a limitation of the legislative initiative of the Members of the National Assembly, and is it not a rewriting of the constitutional provisions in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly? Thank you. I'm just doing a procedure so I don't come back for a separate vote on para. 7 and 8 of the remaining text of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u451	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u452	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, see what is written in the final version of the Commission in para. 8: "When the bills are being submitted................................ by MPs........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So this norm is not mandatory and all your concerns about the fact that the legislative initiative may be limited have their answer in the magic word in para. 8..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u453	Mr. Ademov, I'll allow myself to replicate you because of al. 7 is imperative for public consultation, and para. Eight's for the debriefing. Right now, if you don't have...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u454	Just for a proposal of bills...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u455	Yes, but only for the references, but al. 7 is that you need to go to mandatory consultations. That is, at the moment, I cannot allocate a bill to which there is no motive or impact assessment. I mean, if there are no public consultations, can I distribute it? And if there's no reference, the committee shouldn't be watching it. That's not definitely here either. [[The President Eva Miteva and the People's Representative Hassan Ademov make details away from the microphones.]] Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u456	Madam President, honourable Members! In my opinion, there is some misunderstanding with regard to the procedure currently taking place in plenary and at all with these initial amendments to the Rules, which we have accepted to act temporarily. In fact, the Committee on the Preparation of New Rules I suppose will carry out a thorough, justified and long discussion on what the Rules of Forty-Fifth Parliament should look like. These are temporary proposals with regard to the Interim Rules which will act until the new Rules are adopted. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] The Commission for the Rules of Procedure has yet to come up with proposals to draw up new regulations, or at least it has been... [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "We are currently voting on the new Rules of Procedure.]] Those were the urgent and urgent changes... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, fine. As I suspected, there's a misunderstanding about what's happening right now. In this regard, I would ask my colleagues from the "Democratic Bulgaria" to withdraw the proposal for public consultations as a binding element of the legislative process, something they can do in the final adoption of the 40th Parliament Regulations, if it comes to that at all. These are temporary proposals now, and even some good ideas just sound inappropriate at the moment for the situation we are in. This means that, in the next week, over the next ten days, perhaps the life of this Parliament will be short, really no legislative process at all. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Well, because there's no bill that can meet high standards and meet all deadlines. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Excuse me, until yesterday you worked against all rules, you made proposals between first and second readings, you changed whole laws, now you've declared meetings, consultations, who participated in writing... Yes, I will support these texts on the Rules of Procedure of the Forty-Fiveth Parliament. But at the moment, it only complicates Parliament's work. The rules are not about making it difficult, but about making it easier.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u457	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. [[National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor.]] For a line, Mrs. Atanasova? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u458	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Manolova, are you listening to yourself? You have just said from the parliamentary tribune: that the forty-fiveth National Assembly has set up a Temporary Commission for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is some chimera or decision which is subject to your interpretation. [[ISV lines.]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] We are currently making Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have a majority if you ever decide to change it in any other sense to do it, but this seems a bit like repairing the repairs, Mrs. Manolova. Now we take one in ten days, then we take another. Moreover, the strongest impression on me, and the worst impression on me, makes me think that you are commenting on a text from the Rules, which allows public consultation with civil society and you are even calling on colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" to withdraw the proposal. I thought you were the civil Ombudsman in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, which apparently now hinders citizens.! It is good that this meeting is broadcast directly to see the people outside and those who supported you, and those who do not, honourable Members, that the goal is only one job not for the benefit of the citizens, but for their own sake. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Well, you showed it relatively soon. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u459	Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u460	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Manolova, you asked your colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" to withdraw the proposal in para. 7, only that you failed to ask the colleagues from GERB to withdraw their proposal and it is in para. 8 and related to this in para. 7. And strangely why colleagues from GERB are now proposing this proposal, and ten years have worked without it? Now they know! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u461	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Hadjigenov. For a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u462	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to get rid of petty political bullies, as far as I'm concerned. I would like to draw your attention to the following fact. Especially for GERB: listen carefully because your matter is unknown. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's right, especially for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u463	Be a little more cultural.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u464	Listen carefully, because your matter is foreign. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Normity is a process that will take as long as it takes. [[(Noise, lines and banging on the banks by GERB-SDS: The line is to Maya!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u465	Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u466	Whether parliament lives a day, two, three, or it lasts its entire term. We have to make such regulations as if they would last centuries. The German civil lawman has been created for 30 years! For these 30 years, it is still the basis of the civil process throughout Europe - an example of good normalism. [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS: "Speak of Maya. "]] That is to say, an argument of the type "Parliament" will live for three days. So be so kind, be so kind, create rules to serve the next five parliaments. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "To Maya speaks it! "]] Don't do anything stupid at this point. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u467	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. For the back, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u468	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, Chairman of the GERB Group, please read the name of this committee, read the decision to set up this committee. This is a committee which has been established for two purposes: one purpose is the establishment of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly..., of the Draft Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Secondly, for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u469	Are you done?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u470	Thus, this is not the procedure for drafting the new Rules of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] You just don't know what you're doing! . [[Noise and lines from GERB SDS]] You don't know what you're doing or what procedure we're in. These are Rules to act until the new Rules of the Forty-Fiveth Parliament are made. Is it possible you don't know what you're proposing to? It's really ridiculous! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So let's not exercise ourselves in pointless statements and self-expressions. In fact, the people who invited civil society to this Parliament are the parliamentary groups of. There is such a people and we have already submitted the Personal Aid Bill, which you have maimed, which should be dealt with today at the Health Commission and which I hope will be adopted within the next two weeks. So we act while Dessislava Atanasova boasts, without even knowing what procedure she is involved in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u471	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Vigenin had stated before you, then Mr. Slavov and then Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u472	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think we need to calm down a little bit and really figure out what we're really doing today and... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's right, that's right, listen to what I have to say. It is absolutely right, Mrs. Manolova, that the purpose of today's meeting, of what we are doing today, as you will see in the material which has been distributed to you, and in the decision with which the working group was created, is to make the most pressing changes to the current Rules of Procedure, that is, the Rules of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, which we have decided will operate in the forty-fiveth, until the adoption of new Rules. From this point of view, I would also like to say to my colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" and to some others who have made suggestions on the texts that they have exceeded the meaning of what we intended with the decisions, Mrs. Atanasova, and the Conference of Presidents, and then the Parliament. Some of these proposals that we are discussing today are definitely not particularly pressing, and they had to get into the work on the new Rules, on which the working group is yet to meet and therefore Parliament. From this point of view, I believe that what has been proposed by both GERB and the Democratic Bulgaria is an issue which needs to be dealt with more carefully within the framework of the proposals under the new Rules of Procedure, which must be developed and adopted by our Parliament. Either way, we have now reached a stage where the only thing we can do not to block the activities of the National Assembly now is to vote... I am making a formal proposal or perhaps I am in favour of what Mr Popov has done to vote separately on the new para. 7 asking that it be rejected, with the idea that this issue will be dealt with in the work of the new Rules. Dear colleagues of GERB, for several terms you are working in one way that has distorted the legislative process extremely. Now you are trying to throw us into the other extreme, which will block the possibility of making urgent legislative changes. I propose to you, if we want to work adequately in the next week, two until the new Rules are proposed, this new para. 7 to be rejected in one separate vote, to move on and to bear it in mind in the work of the new Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u473	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Slavov. [[Replys: "Procedure. "]] Mr. Nenkov, first you were to speak, then procedure? [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Oh, you're already on procedure, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u474	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm glad this debate is happening. Why? Because there are provisions in force in the Law on Legislative Acts which, unfortunately, have not been respected by the National Assembly for a long time, even though they have been adopted 2016. With the provisions tabled, we have tried these provisions, which for some reason the National Assembly has not complied with, to be carried over to the Parliamentary Rules. We are aware that this would perhaps make it difficult for the legislative initiative to increase the time limits. At the same time, I would like to point out that at least in several European reports on the rule of law, on a mechanism for cooperation and verification, the European Semester Report points out the following: the unpredictable nature of the legislative process in Bulgaria. I agree with some of the speeches that this issue should be settled permanently. If you believe that it cannot be settled permanently now, it must be settled permanently in the future entirely new rules. But these are principle issues, and we think they must have a lasting settlement, because citizens and businesses expect predictable legislative process, not chaotic and temporary solutions. If you accept, I can propose that these texts enter into force with a delayed effect one month after their adoption, or alternative to being voted on later in the whole new rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u475	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Lord Nenkov for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u476	Madam President, we are about to make a very big mistake. There has never been such a phenomenon as temporary rules until now. Mrs. Manolova, excuse me, I am not a lawyer, but here in the back of the decision we are voting on today is broadcast and the entire National Assembly directly supports, or rejects the relevant paragraphs, finally writes: "The decision shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. "You want to say... What, then, will we publish in the Official Gazette? Madam President, we will finish this topic today. If anyone wants to make other proposals in the Rules, make them in due order. The Commission, which is this temporary, let it meet, let it make separate decisions. What are you going to publish in the Official Gazette?! That's what I want you to answer. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u477	Mr. Nenkov, in the Official Gazette the decision to be adopted today will be published. These are amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure in force, which were adopted to act with the decision of the National Assembly. However, in the Decision establishing the Temporary Commission, point 1.1 states that the Commission has the task of drafting the draft Rules of Procedure of the 45th National Assembly. Paragraph 1.2 of that judgment states that no changes to the Rules of Procedure, which are individualised with the respective type of promulgations, may be made until the drafting of this Draft Rules of the 45th National Assembly, with § 1 of the Additional Provisions, i.e. with regard to time limits and procedures. The decision that we voted on today has a regulatory character, will be published in the Official Journal, will enter into force immediately from the day of the promulgation and will be applied. Until the adoption of the new rules of the 45th National Assembly, this shall apply with all its amendments as of today. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] That's right. And it's applied. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Statements? Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u478	Of course, Madam President, it is called the Rules of Procedure, not the Interim Rules. Any amendments and additions that we adopt today are amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and it becomes permanent regulations. I wanted to ask Mr. Slavov not to withdraw and not to modify his proposal. Mr. Slavov, for our professional honor. That's a perfect offer. I have dreamed in this Parliament of joining together around the highest common denominator of legislative quality, and I do not wish to unite from the very beginning around the lowest common denominator. What you have proposed is a public discussion of every bill tabled by a Member of the National Assembly. I absolutely agree with that. Please don't withdraw it! Please don't suggest modifications! I will vote for your project. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u479	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u480	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, perhaps somewhere some of the colleagues who were not in the Commission yesterday we have yesterday texts that we have decided how to be and some of them have been changed in the version. If he wants to make the 45th National Assembly, he'll make five rules, it's up to us what we vote. At the technical consultations we agreed to have a first amendment, which would be the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the 45th National Assembly. As you can see, I have not agreed with them myself because I am an importer of other amendments outside the minor amendments of the parliamentary group. So every single one of our colleagues could have had other proposals, which are from non-governmental organizations, from institutes that have been made. What is important at the moment is whether there is a procedure in which, in reality, no matter what period, while these rules apply, legislation can be observed. That's most likely the concern of the coworkers. Because if they have to present this as a text that has passed and which I agree is exceptional, and it should be exactly that, and there should be a Public Council. If this happens, the Election Code will not exist if the National Assembly is at a short stage. I am saying this completely responsible to everyone because doing the Public Council has enough stakeholders, especially when it comes to the Election Code. So if we want to have an Election Code, and for a short horizon, with changes that everyone has tabled, this is the only way not to have broad consultations. That's the truth. From there on, you will vote whatever you choose, and the parliamentary group will decide whether to support it or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u481	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. For a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u482	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am under the impression that what we are doing in this Chamber is intended to serve a specific, specific interest, which is not a public one, because it is in a hurry to do something without being discussed publicly. If the amendments to the electoral legislation are extremely important, they are important to be made in a broad public discussion [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] , especially given that there are formations here that are part of this Parliament thanks to the will of the Bulgarian citizens who wanted and continue to want concrete, clear, radical changes in the electoral legislation. To adopt temporary rules and temporary law will be a new practice of the Bulgarian Parliament and will start from the 45th National Assembly, but I have not heard of a temporary law. There is also a procedure in which, if the rules adopted in time need to be changed and amended, this National Assembly can do so. I don't know what one of the negotiators meant, who said we could adopt some kind of delayed norm, like, let's say, let's take a majority vote, but for the next few Parliaments or after five choices. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u483	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. [[Noise and lines.]] For a line? Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u484	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs Capon, as I understand it, because it has not become clear to me, you are worried that if this text is adopted, which provides for public discussions, impact assessment and so on, no changes can be made to the Election Code quickly overnight. That, I understand, is your thesis. For this reason, we will wait to see how much this Parliament will work and then, once we have made these changes, we will permanently accept this proposal, which we will not accept now, because many will be discussing your proposals for the Election Code by public organisations, by electoral experts, by all kinds of people. Finally, on top of that, we'll do an impact assessment. That's what I understand you saying. [[Noise and lines.]] That's what Mrs. Capon said, and I'm making a line on her. The electoral code was mentioned. However, if this is your attitude towards the Election Code, let us accept it for three days. Well, colleagues, until two weeks ago you blamed us and we, by the way, have been discussing it for a very long time and the current Election Code for adopting it too quickly. I will not talk here at all about the Venice Commission and its recommendations that electoral rules cannot be adopted two months before the elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u485	Only in certain cases. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u486	Or six months. No, because in two months it'll be the election.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u487	One year and in certain cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u488	I think we should accept that once it's offered. We may have different comments, but the argument that we won't accept it because we're doing something temporary, and we're going to think of it as something permanent seems strange. Let's accept it temporarily, and constantly, it will remain constant and then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u489	Thank you. Any other lines? Mrs. Atanasova, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u490	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Capon, my line is not to challenge what you have said, but to thank you for your honesty. Because you are the only one who dared to say that the new majority or colleagues on this side of the Chamber are difficult to navigate, aiming to create some kind of temporary, or how many permanent rules, for a single purpose, to change the electoral rules. Because they have no answer to the question: will there be a government, who will bear the responsibility? It's just that you're preparing for an election. All the other words about how much you think about Bulgarian citizens and from the first day you will solve their problems are simply, I don't know, perhaps a learned cliché. Thank you, however, Mrs Capon, for being sincere enough in plenary and with all the Bulgarian citizens watching us. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u491	Mrs. Capon, for the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u492	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, colleagues. For those of you who know me, they know that the truth will always save us and that is seen by the bills that the group of men is standing up! [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Those who don't know what they're called, but they are 92, and by majority they don't have a majority, no matter how much it might be wanted by Bulgarian citizens, but up to 121 they don't, or I can't think, there are better mathematicians here. Either way, we have enough legislative initiative that is visible, and it has its impact assessments and motives. What I want to say, and I repeat once again: The election code must be different because we do not want to allow elections to take place the way they have been held so far. We don't want there to be no video surveillance, we don't want there to be no machine voting by certification of the machines, we don't want to make elections but the governors in the last 12 years. For this reason, yes, the Election Code, extremely sincere, is very important. It is important to ensure the integrity of the vote of Bulgarian citizens and we will make every effort not to make the Election Code in 12 minus 5, as usual. We start on the first day, whether there's a government or not. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And when you gave the term back, we agreed that there was someone to answer after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u493	Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u494	Okay, tomorrow, today, it doesn't matter. So let's be clear that with this election administration, with this information service, the way you're making our choices, you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u495	Who's "we"?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u496	Well, the government, regardless of your mix. Because this Election Code is this way made. We have started to work and tell you: it is not so great the drama with these texts on the Election Code, because it is already going securely to the Commission. But the bigger drama is that an economy in an emergency order is everything Bulgarian citizens need, it will not be possible to do within the time limits we need, despite the discussions we have with the organizations, with the NGOs. So I am sincere enough to say that no matter how long this National Assembly will work, we want to work. Maybe your slogan is this slogan, yeah, it comes from another movie, but let's not argue about it. It's good when PR agencies watch this, too, but that's within the joke. But your text, Mrs. Atanasova, for the last time, is good and it is good to be able to at least for now know who the organizations are and who the texts are cooked with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u497	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Velov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u498	My fellow Members, I have heard many speeches here in many different directions. Let's stick to the offer. Article 26 and the Law on Legislative Acts has not been respected for many years at all. At the last minute, through the back door, you introduced regulations and these provisions were adopted without civil society and citizens being able to react. This public discussion is an absolutely principled issue and it is intended precisely for this reason so that citizens can respond to the legislative proposal, to issue opinions by experts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u499	We support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u500	You support him now, and 10 years ago you didn't support him and didn't follow him! I have a proposition. So far, I've heard there's talk of the Election Code. Everything we accept will, in principle, apply from now on, not to the already tabled bills. We're already looking at the Election Code, he's been to committees, he won't be subject to these provisions. But so there is no doubt, because I see that there is ambiguity, ignorance and ignorance of legislative practice here, so I say I suggest the following amendment to the text of para. 7: "For the drafts submitted by the Members of the National Assembly, I read the text with the version of the Rules after the entry into force of these Rules shall apply the requirements of public consultations under art. 26, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts, as well as on the website of the National Assembly, a section of Public consultations is created, which publishes information on current and public consultations. The administration of public consultations is carried out by the administration of the National Assembly. Let this amendment be put to the vote. Thank you. [[Relations of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u501	Mr. Velov, I understand very well what you're trying to say to me, but it's not done that way. This is a provision on Transitional and Final Provisions, it is not a provision on how many are in the Rules. You must simply say in Transitional and Final Provisions that this paragraph and this subparagraph do not apply to those submitted until the entry into force of the Decision. That's what you mean? Okay, well, thank you. Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u502	Thank you, Madam President. Cards, coworkers, pick 'em up, you're gonna need 'em. Dear colleagues! There are still many good unfinished things that can be done by this National Assembly. There is also a time when the old parties, which made laws by offering individual MPs, have reacted violently. There is a time, of course, to talk about the legal documents that you, colleagues, are currently proposing. My request is, however, to be at the height of the National Assembly, to return to point. Five on the agenda. And I'll tell you that t. 5 on the agenda says: "We are looking at a draft decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Guys, we're not doing anything else. Whatever people say about you, whatever you talk about, the chairwoman and whatever she is trying to put in order, we need to know that we are making an amendment and an addition to the Rules of the National Assembly. We're not doing anything else. Therefore, my request is: the amendments and additions to the paragraphs that were walking, let us look at them so dignifiedly and speak on the proposals that have been made for amendment and supplement. Anything else about the Election Code, whether or not these Rules will affect the Election Code, depends on the day when the amendment and the Appendix will be published. God forbid the Rules would have affected the Election Code. Of course, then it would have been even better, everyone would have been calmed [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Give up this worry, colleagues! The people and voters have sent us here to sit down and restore dialogue so that normality can return to this country. We cannot restore normality to the National Assembly. A colleague comes out and says, "Aha." Mrs. Manolova goes out and puts in the name of the Most High, colleagues. Give up on me, let's get back to the Rules. Please! Be safe! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u503	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Any other speeches? Mr. Velov, I will put your proposal to the vote at the end of the draft decision when we come to Transitional and Final Provisions. There was a proposal from Mr. Popov for a separate vote on para. 7. Only on Al. 7 or 7, Mr. Popov, or al. Eight?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u504	And on Al. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u505	In paragraphs 7 and 8? Please vote on Mr Popov's proposal for a separate vote. Vote 161 MPs: for 102, against 58, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. First I will put paragraphs 7 and 8 to the vote separately, then I will put the entire article to the vote. 76, depending on the outcome of the vote. Please vote on paragraphs 7 and 8 as proposed in the Commission Report on Art. 76. Both together, they're connected. Vote 168 MPs: 111, against 44, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We are now going to vote on the entire § 12 amending art. 76 as amended by the Commission. They voted 164 MPs: 140, none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u506	Dear Madam President, a proposal from the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and colleagues: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 79, para. 1 the number The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u507	Go on, there's more.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u508	Proposal of the MPs Vassileva and Doncheva. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 6: The President of the Committee shall request an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria by draft laws relating to the powers of the municipalities. 2. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7. 3. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and in it the words.. 5 and 6.................................................................................................................... 4. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it the words.. 5 and 6............................................................................................................................................................. 5. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u509	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Slavov, Velov and Yordanova's unsupported proposal for art. 79. Vote 155 MPs: 93 against 50, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 13 for changes to art. 79. Vote 179 MPs: for 178, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u510	Madam President, the next proposal is from the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and others. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, 2 and 3 and does not support it by t. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u511	Read the unsupported part. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u512	Point 4, para. 3 is amended as follows: , (3) On the proposals submitted by MPs, the chairman of the committee responsible shall request an opinion from the Council of Ministers or from the respective minister. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) Members of the National Assembly may make written proposals for amendments and additions to the bill adopted at the first vote or the joint bill under art. 81, para. 2 within 7 days of its adoption, respectively from its submission to the Members of the National Assembly who argue. The proposals shall not conflict with the principles, scope and motives of the bill adopted at first vote. The proposals shall be made through the President of the National Assembly to the Chair of the Committee responsible and shall be entered in a public register of the National Assembly. By way of exception, the National Assembly may decide to extend this period by a maximum of three weeks. 2. A new para is being created. 2: . (2) The paragraphs of paragraph 2 shall be replaced by the following: 1 may not relate to legislation other than those proposed by amendment or supplement in the initially tabled bill, except where this is necessary in relation to the matter for which it is submitted. In this case, the proposal should be adopted by two thirds of all members of the committee responsible. If the proposal is not approved, it shall not be proposed for a second vote. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2, 3, 4 and 5 become respectively. 3, 4, 5 and 6. 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u513	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u514	Madam President, colleagues! I am proposing that the expression "seven-day term" be "three-day term" in para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u515	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u516	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I go into my statement on the substance, I just want to clarify whether I understand correctly what the revision has just been made, that the changes in the proposals submitted by MPs between the two readings can be up to a 3-day period, if I understand correctly. But as far as I know, the practice of the Legislature, since it exists in Bulgaria, that the deadline for submitting proposals can always be reduced or extended within the framework of a decision of the National Assembly. So I don't normally see what the point of such a proposal is, but okay. I take note of the unsupported part of the proposal of the MPs Slavov, Velov and Yordanova, namely that the proposals tabled by the MPs, as far as I understand it, are concerned, however, between the two readings, should the leading Commission, the President should ask for an opinion from the Council of Ministers or from the minister. This is an absolutely correct proposal. That was always the practice in the committees. It was simply an informal practice in any proposal submitted by MPs between the two readings of the bills, always required opinions of the ministries and their positions on whether they support or not. And not just the ministries, absolutely any organs affected. I therefore do not understand why the Commission has not supported this proposal. I appeal to the House to support it, as this is a normal practice and it is right for the Commission to request an opinion from the executive and other authorities on proposals between the two readings. So I really don't want someone who doesn't support him to explain why he doesn't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u517	Mr. Gajev, I'm just going to make it clear that the text is exactly the same in the Rules right now. It's just being added by MPs. They cannot make proposals between first and second readings other than MPs. I mean, that's the way it works. It is specifying rather, but with it and without it, the norm is applied. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Slavov, Velov and Yordanova under the heading. 4 of their proposal on amendment to para. 3. They voted 177 MPs: 97 against 27, abstention 53. The motion is accepted. We are now going to vote on the proposal made by Nadezhda Yordanova to reduce the deadline in para. 1, the figure "seven" to be replaced by "sthree". Vote 171 MPs: 65 against 97 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. We shall proceed to the Commission's version of the amendment of Article 14. 83. Vote 180 MPs: 137 against 1, abstention 42. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u518	Madam President, the next proposal is from the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Nadezhda Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88, para. 2 after the words "e-mails" shall be added as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures sent to the e-mail address of the Ministry of Justice of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u519	Thank you. Is there a statement for art. 88? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made by the Commission for § 15. They voted 176 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, they abstentioned 37. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u520	Madam President, the next proposal is from colleagues Slavov, Velov and Yordanova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal and proposes to create § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. In the first session of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly shall provide a reference to the bodies which are elected in whole or in part by the National Assembly and whose term expires within the relevant session, as well as to the bodies whose new members have not yet been elected. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: 2 Candidates may be offered by any Member of the National Assembly unless otherwise provided for in the decision initiating the procedure. The time limit for submitting applications shall not be less than two weeks from the day following the date of adoption of a decision initiating the procedure. Proposals for selection together with biographical reference and documents relating to the requirements for incompatibility, internship, education and other required documents shall be published on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. In para. A new sentence shall be created fourth: the questions referred in this order shall be communicated to the candidates in writing no later than 24 hours before the start of the hearing. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: . (4) The requests for selection shall be examined by a Standing Committee of the National Assembly, which shall hear candidates who comply with the requirements of the law, and the Chair of the Commission shall be obliged to invite the applicant to respond to those appointed pursuant to para. Three questions. The Commission shall submit a report which summarises the outcome of the hearing. The hearing is public. 5. In para. The fourth sentence is created: The report must also contain information about the questions raised to each candidate, which the applicant has not answered. 6. In para. 6 the number 7. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The National Assembly shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the relevant committee, as well as the procedure for their election by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u521	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create § 16. Vote 184 MPs: 142, none, abstention 42. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u522	Madam President, the next proposal is from the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 96 para. 3 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Atanas Slavov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96, para. 1 shall be added after the words "electronically" as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures sent to the electronic address of the proceedings of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u523	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u524	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal of MPs from our parliamentary group concerns the possibilities of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers to postpone answers to current issues by seven days. We believe that the current questions should be answered in a timely manner, so our proposal is the possibility of delaying answers to be rejected in the National Assembly's Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u525	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u526	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor as a person who has been on the other side, not only in parliament, but also as a person who has been preparing answers to such topical questions. To tell you what the procedure is in general. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions Wednesday by 9:00 a.m. on Wednesday, which should be answered on Friday, i.e. a total of 48 hours. If there is no possibility of delaying, then, any minister, in this case, if there is a new government, we will be opposition and we can take advantage of this stupidity for me to force ministers to give informal answers because they will not have time to prepare. Any question may ask a question, for example, about the state of an object in the ministry's management, to signal a problem. However, this is not just the idea of having political circuses during parliamentary control, but really solving problems. And parliamentary control solves problems. Failure to allow the Minister, whoever he is, to prepare himself, to have up-to-date information, even if it is triggered by an alert from the people's representative who asked the question, turns the function of parliamentary control solely into political nagging, without any constructive role and without any possibility of solving the questions asked or at all for an accurate answer by the ministers. Yes, it will give a very big opportunity to the opposition, whoever it is. [[Reply: "In the blitzcontrol. "]] In blitzcontrol, you can ask questions that do not require data, while in parliamentary control you can ask questions that require data. I answer, I regret to enter this dialogue, but during parliamentary control, which is given in writing, specific policies, specific activities may be required. While in the blitzcontrol that we are about to vote on, I think it's just politics, which is a little bit different and in a different way. The fact that many people abuse and do not use it the way it has been written in the Rules over the years is another matter. But think a little bit about whether it makes sense to make such a reduction if you want to make sense of parliamentary control. Otherwise, it'll just be a circus. This also applies to the next proposal, not to take the floor again, questions and the possibility of preparing the members of the Council of Ministers for questions. This isn't about this guy...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u527	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u528	I have a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u529	Yes, yes, you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u530	It is not about whether this Council of Ministers next or later, but is about some professionalism at work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u531	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. A line? Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u532	My fellow Members, I merely remind you that, according to the parliamentary regulations, there is a three-day time limit for preparing an up-to-date response on an up-to-date issue. Three days! The last opportunity to pass is Tuesday, the minister's response, the prime minister's, the...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u533	Wednesday to 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u534	Wednesday, 9:00 p.m., but the real questions are clear as early as Tuesday night. Okay, there's Wednesday all day, Thursday two days to prepare an answer. In fact, this makes no sense to the time limit set within the basic deadline in the parliamentary rules, because the chicanation of the ministers' answers, the prime minister's and the deputy prime ministers' replies is standard practice. In this way, by circumventing the Rules of Procedure and the possibility of postponement for various reasons, there was a situation in which the Prime Minister never appeared for a year and a half in the National Assembly to answer questions, including from parliamentary control. I believe that the bad practices that have so far shown the application of the Rules should simply be removed, the same goes for the questions. There's a 14-day deadline. How much longer does the deadline have to be? 20 days, 30, a month, two?! These are questions that are important to people. They are placed and are expected to have a timely response.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u535	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other lines? Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u536	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, if you think that in 48 hours you can prepare a perfect, professional and up-to-date response on a subject that can literally affect the condition of a boat somewhere, I wish you someday to be a minister and I could be a member of parliament and ask them and answer them within this deadline. Because you just won't ever give me a specific and correct answer then, and we will only talk politically about politics. [[Reply:.......................... what you wish for!..]] Yeah, they tell me to be careful what I wish it wouldn't come true. However, I am addressing everyone who wants to do not only a show from the parliamentary platform, but to have efficiency and meaning from parliamentary control. I urge you to consider, however, what is the right decision and I hope that they will be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u537	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Maya Manolova and a group of MPs for the annulment of para. 3 in art. 96. Vote 176 MPs: 48 against 106, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the Commission proposal to create § 17. Vote 168 MPs: 151, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u538	Madam President, the proposal of Parliamentary Representative Maya Manolova and a group of Members of Parliament: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov, Velov and Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to establish § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added after the words "electronically" as an electronic document signed with one or more qualified electronic signatures sent to the electronic address of the proceedings of the National Assembly. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u539	Are there any speeches? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u540	A separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u541	On t. One and two? Okay. I'm putting it to the vote. 1 of § 18 in art. 99. Vote 178 MPs: for 176, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I'm putting it to the vote. 2 of the proposals § 18 for the annulment of para. 2. Vote 178 MPs: 94, against 67, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u542	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u544	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. When a Member of the National Assembly wishes to take the floor in the manner of conduct under a given procedure, please give him the floor of this tribune, because it is not clear to us exactly what a Member of the National Assembly wants. A moment ago, I became a witness, a Member of the National Assembly, calling me and telling me what the procedure is, and you are putting it to the vote. My request is to give the floor to the Member of the National Assembly to express his or her procedure or manner of conduct when there is a remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u545	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Let's move on. Mr. Dochev, please come in. 106.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u546	Madam President! Under art. 106 has a proposal from the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106, para. 1 the words "unless otherwise decided" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u547	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's so-read proposal for the creation of § 19. Vote 169 MPs: 157 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u548	There is a proposal of the MPs Popov, Baychev and Ivanov to create art. 107a. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Article 2 is created. 107a: Art. 107a. (1) At the beginning of each plenary session on Thursday, the members of the Council of Ministers shall appear before the National Assembly and shall answer up-to-date oral questions made by the Members of the National Assembly at the meeting as follows: 1. the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers of issues relating to the general policy of the government; 2. The ministers of questions related to specific policies. (2) The questions under para. 1 may not contain requests for the provision of detailed numerical data. (3) Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to two up-to-date oral questions, and MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group shall be entitled to two up-to-date oral questions in total. (4) The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Ministers to whom a question has been addressed shall answer immediately after the question has been asked. (5) The order to ask up-to-date oral questions under para. 1 shall be determined according to the number of parliamentary groups in descending order, the last in line being a Member of the National Assembly not belonging to a parliamentary group. Asking the second questions is in the same order after the procedure on the first questions is exhausted. (6) The provisions of art. 97, para. Two and three. (7) Parliamentary groups shall not avail themselves of their right under art. 54, para. 6 in time for answers to current oral questions. The Commission proposes to establish § 20: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 107a: Art. 107a. (1) In the last two hours of the meeting every first Wednesday of each month, the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister shall appear before the National Assembly and shall answer up-to-date oral questions relating to the general policy of the government, made by the MPs at the meeting itself. The questions referred may not contain requests for detailed numerical data. (2) The right to two up-to-date oral questions shall have every single parliamentary group, and Members of Parliament who are not members of a parliamentary group shall be entitled to two questions in total. (3) The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers to whom a question has been addressed shall answer immediately after the question has been asked. In the event of the absence of the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister, due to illness or secondment outside the country, the President of the National Assembly shall, in agreement with them, determine the meeting to which they will respond to current oral questions. (4) The order to ask topical oral questions under para. 1 shall be determined according to the number of parliamentary groups in descending order, the last in line being a Member of the National Assembly not belonging to a parliamentary group. Asking the second questions is in the same order after the procedure on the first questions has been exhausted. (5) The provisions of art. 97, para. Two and three. (6) Parliamentary groups shall not avail themselves of their right under art. 54, para. 6 in time for answers to current oral questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u549	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u550	Madam President, honourable Members! With the proposal, which has not been adopted by the Rules of Procedure Committee, we propose that the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers be carried out every week on Thursday. We believe that the awareness of the cabinet's actions should be carried out publicly in front of the Bulgarian citizens from the parliamentary tribune. That's why we made such an offer. There is a need for parliamentary control over the actions of the executive and this is one way. In addition, we believe that Wednesday's proposal for blitzcontrol damages the opposition, regardless of which part of the House is in opposition, because this is the day of the opposition, there are opportunities for proposing and putting on the agenda proposals that the otherwise Conference of Presidents and the President would not include in the weekly programme. Considering important to the opposition, whoever it is, I stress, issues are possible only on Wednesdays, on every first Wednesday of the month, and by offering blitzcontrol at the same time, we are actually limiting the possibility of examining bills that are important to the opposition. So if you do not accept my proposal for blitzcontrol every week, I am making a procedural proposal not to do the blitzcontrol on Wednesday, but on Thursday, so that the opposition on Wednesday can put the topics that are important to her and the Bulgarian citizens, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u551	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u552	Madam President, honourable Members! We will support the proposal of our colleagues from BSP, and we will not support Mrs Manolova's proposal from the position of people who are obviously going to be in opposition if this National Assembly continues, for the following reason. Keep in mind there's parliamentary control on Friday. Mrs. Manolova practically proposes that all Thursday be parliamentary control, because if all the ministers come here, count at least two or three hours. This means that the legislative process will be quite narrow. I agree that the first Wednesday of the month is the day of the opposition, but parliamentary control itself is in the interests of the opposition first of all. Yes, any MP can ask a question, but it is mainly the opposition that controls the government. So you don't take anything away from the opposition like that. It's a good thing about parliamentary control. Keep in mind that legislation is also a good thing for the state, as long as it is done in a good way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u553	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u554	Thank you. Mr. Ademov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u555	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov, I expected in your speech to say what forced the change in your position! Because while you were in charge, you removed the so-called blitzcontrol! Now what requires you to change your position? I have a feeling that you are already taking on the role of opposition and want to control the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister. [[Applause from ISV and ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u556	Thank you. [[The National Representative Toma Bikov is heading to the stands.]] Mr. Bikov, I didn't give you the floor! [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u557	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u558	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. There could have been other lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u559	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ademov, now I'm going to remind you of something else. Blitzcontrol, Mr. Ademov, there was in the previous parliament when it was Borisov's second government. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] No, the second one. Okay, come on, historical reference. The blitzcontrol was introduced during the time of Mr. Oresharski to be given here at Mrs. Manolova's suggestion, okay. [[Replication by National Representative Hassan Ademov]] After that, during Mr. Borisov's second government he existed, of course, in another situation. And then there was a majority, unlike Mr. Oresharski's time, when it was ruled without a majority and with a golden finger. But in Borisov's second government there was a majority, this blitzcontrol was left behind. Although I was not a member of parliament at the time, I remember that at the end of this government hardly any questions were asked. It's just that the opposition couldn't think of any questions. That's right! Because there were many parties in the government back then, the opposition was small and was not active. That was the only reason we left him in the committees. He also existed in the previous parliament, there was blitzcontrol in the committees who wanted to ask. If you've all decided, that's why we say we support it. We don't hold on that much. We will be strong enough opposition if we are opposition so that we can control the government and the instruments we have in this Parliament. But as a gesture to you, the holders of Mr Oresharski's mandate, we decide to continue this practice in some way because we see such a government if this Parliament is at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u560	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal made by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 166 MPs: 16 against 111, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We're going to vote on § 20. I would just like to draw attention to you, let the House decide the text is: in the last two hours of the meeting every Wednesday. You know that every Wednesday of the month is the day of the opposition for proposals for inclusion on the agenda, no matter who gets their turn. So it might be a Thursday, but I'm just paying attention to you. [[Replication by National Representative Hasan Ademov: Not "Wednesday", but "First Wednesday".]] Paragraph 20 every first Wednesday, yes. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u561	Thank you. Mrs. President, I am making an editorial amendment to the expression "the first Wednesday" to read "the first Thursday."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u562	Okay, thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there a reverse offer? I put to the vote Mr Popov's proposal to replace him with the first Thursday. Vote 167 MPs: 166, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote § 20, as proposed by the Commission, and the supported proposal........................................................................................ 107a. Vote 159 MPs: 158, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u563	Madam President, the next proposal is the MPs Slavov, Velov and Yordanova: Article 2 is created. 117a: Art. 117a. (1) On a person who does not appear in the cases referred to in art. 113, 114, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 117 without giving a written reason for this, a fine of 500 to 3000 BGN is imposed. (2) A person who fails to fulfil the obligations under art. 115 and 116 within the prescribed period, a fine or a penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN shall be imposed. (3) The acts for the detection of infringements under this Article shall be drawn up by a designated Vice-President of the National Assembly or by the relevant Chair of a committee within 6 months of the day of the infringement. (4) Criminal decrees shall be issued in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments by the President of the National Assembly or by an official authorised by him. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u564	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Slavov, Velov, Yordanova, which was read by the President of the Commission for art. 117a. They voted 170 MPs: 33, against 121, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u565	Madam President, the next proposal is from the MPs Nikolai Hadzhigenov, Maria Kapon and others: "In Chapter 12 " Members of the National Assembly " Section I, the position to fall under art. 135, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u566	Thank you. Statements? I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly for the removal of para. 1 of art. 135. They voted 165 MPs: 10, against 147, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Dochev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u567	Madam President, the next proposal is from the MPs Vassileva and Doncheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145, para. 2 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 146 words are replaced by the Law on Countering Corruption and the Law on the Acquirement of Illegally Acquired Property. Proposal of the MPs Vassileva and Doncheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147 words are replaced by the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u568	Thank you. Statements? I shall put to the vote the so-called paragraphs 21, 22 and 23. Vote 168 MPs: 168, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u569	The next proposal is from the MPs Hadjigenov, Kapon and others. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149, para. 2 sentence first the words "up to one tenth" shall be replaced by "up to one twenty."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u570	Go ahead, report the text to the Commission. Did you report this? Then report the next member.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u571	The Commission proposes to establish § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 in the text before t. 1 after the word......................................................................................... is added during
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u572	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the so-called paragraphs 24 and 25. They voted 163 MPs: 163, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u573	Madam President, the next proposals are from Vasileva and Doncheva and from Hadjigenov and Kapon. The Commission supports these proposals and proposes to create § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. paragraph 4 is amended as follows: ............................................ The participation in the vote shall be understood as those involved in the voting of the Members of the National Assembly. 2. Paragraph 8a is inserted: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The access of journalists in the building
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u574	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u575	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, first of all, I ask for a split vote on the reported text under point 1. 1 et c. 2, as we support the proposal regarding the access of journalists to the National Assembly building, but we do not support the first point, namely.................................................................................. I think we're expanding the constitutional norm here a little bit, on the one hand. On the other hand, non-participation in the vote is also a political act, and many times it has happened here in this House that MPs do not wish to take part in a vote, and this is also their political position. In addition, in the Constitution is written "presenters" in the Chamber in the National Assembly. So I'm asking for a split vote. We cannot support the first point of § 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u576	Any other speeches? I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal for a separate vote on points 1 and 2. Vote 170 MPs: 165 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are now going to vote on the item. 1 of § 26 amending § 4. They voted 170 MPs: 52, against 93, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the item. 2 of § 26. Vote 172 MPs: 170, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dochev, please report the app.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u577	Madam President, the next proposal is of the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Nadezhda Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on the repeal of para. 2 and I do not support it in the rest, and therefore I will read it: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10 of the Annex to the Rules of Procedure the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) Every parliamentary group and parliamentary committee shall have the right to use one motor vehicle of the National Assembly. 2. Alinei 2, 3 and 5 are canceled. Proposal of the MPs Nikolay Hadzhigenov, Maria Kapon, Arman Babikan and Valentina Vasileva-Filadelfevs: "Changes in Annex to the Rules of Procedure - Financial Rules on Budget and Finance The text of art. 11 drop and replace with the following: s (1) The National Assembly shall bear additional expenses of the Members of the National Assembly, amounting to two thirds of the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly under art. 5. The same shall constitute a budget for the additional expenditure of each Member of the National Assembly. These funds shall not be paid to the MPs themselves or to the parliamentary groups. (2) Members of the National Assembly, individually or in association between several Members of the National Assembly, may choose their own staff within the amount under para. 1, between different types of collaborators, as follows: 2.1. accredited assistants working in the National Assembly whose administrative service is carried out directly by the administration of the National Assembly, subject to the conditions for the appointment of temporary staff. Members of the National Assembly may appoint a maximum of two accredited parliamentary assistants [[in the creation of a union between MPs up to four]] . At least a quarter of the total budget under para. 1 must be used to employ accredited parliamentary assistants. 2.2. The Members of the National Assembly may also be employed by the Members of the National Assembly established in their electoral regions. 2.3. The Members of the National Assembly may propose, according to 2.1, paid internships for The MP who offers the internship will be able to determine the specific tasks to be performed during the internship. 2.4. The administrative services under point 1. 2.2 et seq. 2.3 shall be provided by a qualified accounting firm registered with an activity accounting services to ensure that the requirements relating to taxation and social security are duly met. 75% of the total budget under para. 1 can be used for regional parliamentary assistants and intern collaborators. Colleagues shall be appointed for a period of up to 6 months, depending on the specific task. 2.5. Associates are required to have no external activities that may give rise to conflicts of interest and sign the relevant declarations. 2.6. Members of the National Assembly may not hire relatives on an ascending, descending and competitive line. (4) In addition to hiring accredited, regional and intern co-workers, up to one second of the total budget available under para. 1 may be used for the payment of services by suppliers selected by the Members of the National Assembly, such as for the order of expert research, consultation, rent of premises and other activities related to the work of the Members of the National Assembly and their electoral areas. The payment shall be made by the accounting firm declared by the National Representative. (5) The names of all types of associates, the name of the payment intermediary, and all company names of all associates shall be published on the National Assembly's website, on the duration of their contracts, and on the section for each of the Members of the National Assembly. (6) All payments shall be made by bank transfer. The Member of the National Assembly shall receive from the accounting office a report on the expenditure incurred which he declares to the National Assembly and shall be made public on the page. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Nadezhda Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 27: "The Bible says: The Annex to the Rules of Procedure shall make the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7th para. 2 is amended as In carrying out additional tasks awarded by decision of the National Assembly, the Members of the National Assembly may receive additional remuneration of up to 25 percent of the basic monthly remuneration under art. 5. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 para. Two is 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 11th sentence of the fifth sentence is amended as follows: The Members of the National Assembly, organised in parliamentary groups and the Members of the National Assembly, not members of a parliamentary group, shall announce every three months on the website of the National Assembly information on the funds spent, and shall also indicate the recipients of the funds (own and last name or name).
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u578	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. Statements? Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u579	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Because yesterday at the Commission, we agreed that there would be enough time for the administration to implement all the measures. For this reason, we agreed to create a text that almost did not change art. 11 of the Rules of Procedure. It was good that Mr. Glavachev was yesterday, Mrs. Karayancheva was also yesterday, colleagues from the other parliamentary groups, to agree on a one-off Mr. Ademov, please, how without you anyway it became clear that there could not continue the practice of all the years one money to go through one power of attorney and to walk cash through the Secretariat, and this thing regardless of what reports, although there is one step forward, we should say it is not possible that this could remain so. For this reason, I propose, Mr President of the Commission, this text, which is in art. 11, to be added: The sum is provided by bank transfer to the MPs. This is the consensus proposal, which is, and already the parliamentary groups determine the way of distribution, reporting control. Plus of colleagues the last sentence, which is what we talked about yesterday about the way of reporting: The National Representatives, organized in parliamentary groups, and MPs not members of a parliamentary group, announce every 3 months from the National Assembly's website on the Internet information about the funds spent, indicating also the recipients of funds, of course, in brackets (own and last name or name)...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If we have to say at the moment, the parliamentary groups have the opportunity to control the non-use of the last text, which is: There is no way from Parliament's budget to prove that there is a remainder for the MPs. It's normal to have money to work for our associates, assistants, locals. The whole practice that I have proposed is the practice in the European Parliament. Of course, it can be long adjusted. I accept this logic of colleagues, and I believe that this is the compromise option so that it goes in a normal way. Thank you, colleagues. [[Represents the proposal for changes in writing.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u580	Mrs. Doncheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u581	Dear colleagues! I know that for a large part of the Chamber we are in an election situation and we are doing election campaigning, but I do not understand why we need to drop para. 2 for private bus services? Because most of the MPs travel in their own cars, the other part possibly in parliamentary cars. Where the people's representative is supposed to go, but there's only a private bus line, how will he go, excuse me? Why have we solved everything else, and the plane we've cleared, and the cars, but the private bus lines we've banned because I don't understand? I believe that these are rare cases where the MPs, acting very close to the electorate, travel with public transport, and if he happens to be the private bus line, we will not recognise his expenses. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] If you want to ban the trip with some bus companies that you know are promoted by gerbils, sponsors of GERB, let's write it down, but now let's not harm the most disadvantaged colleagues, those who will not get their hands on parliamentary cars and who, say, do not have their own. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u582	Mrs. Doncheva, I take it you're making proposals to drop the item. Two?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u583	I'm making the motion to drop out of t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u584	Okay. Thank you. Mrs. Manolova to speak, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u585	Madam President, honourable Members! In fact, a group of MPs from the Parliamentary Group is standing up! We have made a proposal that would eliminate the assumption by the National Assembly of costs not only for private bus lines, but also travel costs with the state, municipal, railway, road, water transport. We have also proposed the recognition of the transport costs of MPs for visits to their electoral areas, including the admission by the National Assembly of airline tickets to MPs, and we also propose to limit the use of service Mercedes. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] We believe that the MPs receive enough salary to be able to pay their bus tickets, railway tickets and airline tickets. If MPs can't bear the cost of their own cars and travel by public and long-distance transport, then how can Bulgarian citizens do it? Excuse me, with a salary that is three times the average salary for the state, not being able to pay your ticket to Burgas or to Pernik or to Pleven, I believe that these privileges under a pandemic are not fair to Bulgarian citizens. That is why we have also proposed limiting the use of service cars to one of a parliamentary group, with our parliamentary group giving up the use of a car at all. The fact that the Rules of Procedure decided to support our proposal only with regard to private bus lines is not the decision of the importing group. We propose that the National Assembly does not pay with taxpayers' money the tickets to the MPs. I think anyone can buy a subway ticket or, as President Karayancheva said, walk on foot was. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u586	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u587	Thank you, Madam President. I will not comment on the proposals of the other Members of Parliament, and that of the Commission, as the Commission rejected them yesterday. The Commission's first proposal is by para. Art. 2, Art. 7 which reads: "In carrying out additional tasks entrusted by a decision of the National Assembly, the Members of the National Assembly may receive additional remuneration of 25 percent of the basic monthly remuneration, which I agree with. In fact, what we change to para. Two? The current al. 2 of the Rules of Procedure states: "The National Representatives may receive additional remuneration in carrying out the country's priority tasks. "It is really a kind of reward to this People's Representative who has implemented priority tasks for the country and is not some decision of the National Assembly. The decision of the National Assembly can be any, and the national representative can implement priority tasks for the country without a decision of the National Assembly because of the Constitution he is the MP of the whole of Bulgaria. That is why I am making an editorial proposal in the following sense: to remain the old text in the Rules, adding, of course, at the end: In this way, we also retain the priority tasks for Bulgaria, and the reward nature if these priority tasks are carried out, as well as the proposal of colleagues up to 25 percent of the basic monthly remuneration. Secondly, please also note the following. It is already about the next point in art. The 11th sentence of the fifth is amended as follows: The National Representatives organized in parliamentary groups and the Members of the National Assembly, not members of a parliamentary group, announce every three months on the website of the National Assembly internet information and so on. It is clearly stated in these Rules that parliamentary groups determine how funds are distributed, reported and controlled. That is, the control and reporting of these funds should be done by analogy from the current rules of procedure to the parliamentary groups of those who have parliamentary groups and, for those who are, of course, non-members of a parliamentary group, remain the old text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u588	So you're suggesting there's no change in sentence five?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u589	No, I was just paying attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u590	I mean, you're not proposing here. Okay, thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on Maya Manolova's unsupported proposal under art. 10 and in respect of t. 1, para. 1 and para. Three and five are canceled. Vote 184 MPs: 51 against 99, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Please show in groups. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nikolay Hadjigenov, Maria Kapon, Armand Babikian and Valentina Vasileva. 11. Vote 181 MPs: 10, against 137, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Please show in groups. I shall put to the vote the proposal made by the Members of the National Assembly Maria Kapon in art. The 11th sentence second to acquire the following version: The sum is provided by bank transfer to the Members of the National Assembly. Vote 184 MPs: 68 against 87 abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Please show in groups. MARIA CAPON Madam President! My fellow Members, it has obviously not been clear what we are voting for. We vote to stop the black cashier, a bag for the purposes of the parliamentary groups, which was, and to become normal on a bank basis, as your ministers wanted most of the payments to be paid on a bank, to have real accountability, that is what we want. As I said, in really 12 years nothing has changed about bad practices. They very rightly call certain parties a party of the status quo, so I ask for a revoting. I hope it is clear what is going on in a bank, not in an envelope, not in a bag, not with a secretary's power of attorney, but to everyone directly! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u591	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Please vote on the proposal made by Maria Capon..................................................................................................... Vote 189 MPs: 75 against 85, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on Tatiana Doncheva's proposal for dropping the item. 2 of the Commission's version, and to remain para. 2 in art. 10.... the texts for transport. They voted 144 MPs: 58, against 50, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Is there someone who wants a re-vote? Okay, yeah. I re-vote Tatiana Doncheva's proposal to drop the item. 2 of § 27. Vote 174 MPs: 145, against 12, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Please show in groups. I put to the vote the proposal made by Philip Popov in art. 7, para. 2 of the text in force at the end to be added to the amount of up to 25 percent of the basic monthly remuneration under art. Five o'clock. Please vote. Vote 170 MPs: 154 against 6, abstention 10. We accept this substitution text of para. 2. Please show in groups. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal for § 27 with the proposals so adopted. [[Relations from the National Representative Philip Popov.]] Mr. Popov, you must have wanted to do something, but you forgot. Vote 172 MPs: 102, against 60, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, I just want to take you back to Art. 83 where I paid attention to the proposals of Members of the National Assembly, which are sent for an opinion of the Executive. Indeed, it turns out that we have allowed duplicate texts. This proposal, which we adopted to Slavov, Velov and Yordanova, actually has it in the Rules at the moment. The difference is in the imperative, so I suggest that the editing be the previous para. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words can be replaced to become imperative text. Otherwise, it's the way we voted. Please vote on it so that there are no duplicate texts in the Rules of Procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote 163 MPs: 162, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Thank you. Mr. Dochev will report the Final provision by § 28:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u592	Madam President, the Commission proposes to create the name "Concluding provision" by § 28. ....... 28........................................... 28 The decision shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u593	Thank you. Colleagues, I suggest that the name should become "transitional and final provisions" and we create a new § 28, which shall have the following wording: "Art. 76, para. 7 shall not apply to bills submitted until the entry into force of this Decision. What was suggested by Mr. Velov is that § 28 should become § 29. You have the floor, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u594	My fellow Members, I would like to call on you to vote on this text because the concern of the parliamentary group is standing up! It is in relation to the bills we have already submitted. We are talking about bills that are discussed with mothers from "The System kills us" The Law on Personal Aid, the Law on Retirement Supplements, the Support of Small and Medium Business, the Law on Medical Institutions, with which to have the opportunity to revise the competitions. Today we introduced the Public Enterprises Act. I assure you that most of the laws of the private insolvency law are widely discussed with civil organisations, and the reason we object to the 30-day consultation period was precisely this..............................the...inability to deal with bills that are extremely important. This clarification was made by Mr. Velov and was now made by Mrs. Miteva. The way the proposal was made, the provision concerned everything that has already been tabled, including the bills that I am now reporting to you from the parliamentary platform. These are exceptional bills concerning Bulgarian citizens. That was the cause of my objection. Now I ask you and I ask you to support this text - not to refer to the bills that have already been submitted - the requirement for a 30-day delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u595	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Bikov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u596	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs Manolova! There are two problems. The first is that there are laws that will not be subject to this procedure, and other laws that will be subject to this procedure and that will be subject to some kind of competitive principle which has introduced them to this day. Which seems like a double standard. If you're gonna do this thing, do it for everybody. Secondly, your laws on grossest accounts cost between 15 billion and 20 billion. lv. They're gonna cost the taxpayers. Do you have a financial justification for them at least, if not public consultation, at least a financial justification? Have you considered updating the budget for all these things you're proposing? It is your laws that need extremely serious and large-scale public discussion not only with your accompanying NGOs, but also with employers' organisations, trade unions and any other type of representative organizations, of course, experts and people involved in the street debate. Your speech only motivates us to vote against.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u597	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u598	Madam President, honourable Members! Excuse me, but where is it that some laws can come from, which are quick and prioritized to you, just as with the Staff of Emergency Changes, and here some urgent bills have been submitted to the National Assembly's Office, and who will implement these projects for you, Mrs. Manolova? Make a government. Send your minister of finance to sit here next to you to build him an account and he'll shout: yes, well, okay, we'll do it. That's what honesty is, but with that kind of thing, I'm sorry. Either you do it the way you're going to do it with all these public discussions, or just don't throw dust in people's eyes! I say again: choose a government, appoint a finance minister and let him come here to ask him if these bills are financially secured. Everything else is populism. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u599	Here you go, Mrs. Peneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u600	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! Firstly, I would like to say that the financial accounts, which were just quoted by 15 billion. BGN, are extremely wrong, inaccurate and inadequate. These laws aren't worth 15 billion. lv. [[Replication by National Representative Toma Bikov: "Say how many are there? "]] Secondly, these are not our laws. These are laws of Bulgarian citizens, laws that save people's lives. We know very well that the former government did not want to support the Bulgarian citizens. You are very well confirming your position that you will abandon the citizens without the necessary means. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u601	Thank you. A hole, Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u602	Of course, each of these laws has a financial justification and it is now time to refute the lies and suggestions of social minister Sacheva, who claims that personal assistance is needed 32 billion. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey!? Ridiculous claims by a ridiculous social minister who doesn't care about people with disabilities! These projects will first enter the Commission, then in plenary, you will be able to see how much each one of them costs. Mothers from the System are killing us waiting for this bill. It was promised by the MPs from all parliamentary groups without yours, so this bill, which will begin to act immediately, and not after 30 days, is vital for people who are helpless. Don't play games! Do not turn into a political problem, the life dramas of tens of thousands of people. These bills must be adopted in an urgent manner, as colleague Theodora said, to save lives.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-22.u603	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal made by me for a transitional provision with the following paragraph: 76, para. 7 shall not apply to bills submitted until the entry into force of this Decision. Vote 169 MPs: 101, against 63, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from IHN.]] I put to the vote the final provision read with § 28 by the President of the Commission, and with the corresponding renumbering will be then by the Final Texts. 140 MPs voted: 129 against 7, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. That's what ended and accepted this point. I am moving to parliamentary control reports on 29 April 2021, Friday. Parliamentary control on 29 April 2021 provided for as follows: 8 of the National Assembly's Work Programme for 21 April 2021 will not be realized due to a confirmed non-participation of members of the Council of Ministers who should answer questions and questions asked by MPs. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria in resignation Boyko Borisov will not participate due to sick leave. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Retire Tomislav Donchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism in Retirement Mariana Nikolova; - Minister of Finance in Retirement Kiril Ananiev; - Minister of Education and Science in Retirement Krasimir Valchev; - Minister of Energy in Retirement Temenuzhka Petkova; - Minister of the Interior in Retirement Hristo Terziyski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in Retirement Petya Avramova; - Minister of Health in Retire Kostadin Angelov. Minister of Labour and Social Policy in Retirement Denitsa Sacheva will not participate in parliamentary control due to the use of leave. That's why we ran out of agenda for today. The next plenary session is tomorrow, 23 April 2021 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
