ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. This week Victoria Vassileva, Rositsa Kirova, Christian Vigenin and Atanas Atanasov will take part in the management of the meetings. Please take your seats. We'll start with the program. Point 1 of the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF SANTE/2020/C3/082-DC-BG OF THE TEST COMPLETES FOR ANTI-GENERATION IN ONE ABOUT THE DIAGITY OF COVID-19 OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA BY THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION AND THE SECOND AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION SANTE/2020/C3/082-DC-BG OF THE COVID-19 TEST COMPLETES FOR THE EVENTS OF COVID-19 OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION. Importer: Council of Ministers on 5 August 2021 I ask the President of the Commission to report the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u2	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the SANTE/2020/C3/082-DC-BG donation contract on kits for a test for a antigen............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At its meeting, held on 31 August 2021, the Health Commission examined and discussed the Draft for ratification of the SANTE/2020/C3/082-DC-BG grant contract of kits for a CENT test......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, representatives of the Ministry of Health, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and its motives were presented by Minister Katsarov, who informed the MPs that the deepening crisis in relation to COVID-19 forced Member States to take a number of emergency measures, including the activation of emergency support within the European Union. The Official Journal of the European Union published Council Regulation (EU) 2020/521 of 14 April 2020 on the activation of emergency support under Regulation (EU) No 231/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council and amending the provisions of that Regulation in the light of the SOVID-19 pandemic. This instrument assists Member States in tackling the coronavirus, including with regard to the provision of a COVID-19 vaccine for all European citizens. By letters of 26 February 2021 and 22 March 2021, the European Commission informed the Republic of Bulgaria that the European Commission had purchased kits for a CIVID-19 diagnostics in the framework of the Emergency Support Instrument and provided for signature the donation contracts. The letters note that the signature should be placed under the donation contracts as soon as possible without the right to change their content. In accordance with the above, the contracts were signed on 24 March 2021 and 26 March 2021 respectively on the basis of Decision No 234 of the Council of Ministers of 2021 and on 7 April 2021 and 9 April 2021 on the basis of Decision No 294 of the Council of Ministers of 2021. The basis for the ratification of the two contracts for donation of kits for a test for a single diagnosis of COVID-19 of the Republic of Bulgaria by the European Commission is art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In view of the fact that the two Annexes I to the donation contracts contain specific (sensitive) information, it is proposed that the latter should not be published in the Official Journal on the basis of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. During the discussion the President of the Committee on Health Associate Professor Silvi Kirilov informed the MPs that in the texts of the provisions of the proposed bill there are several inaccuracies of a legal technical nature which should be removed in the second vote. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 16 votes for..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u3	Thank you. No report has been received by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I'm opening the debate for speeches. I can't see. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the SANTE/2020/C3/082-DC-BG donation contract on kits for a test for a antigen............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please, voting mode. Vote 189 MPs: 189, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u4	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted in the first vote should be examined and put to the second vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u5	Thank you. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. Vote 183 MPs: 182 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u6	THE LAW OF THE for the ratification of the SANTE/2020/C3/082-DC-BG donation contract of the SIC kits all in one and all in one for the diagnosis of COVID-19 of the Republic of Bulgaria by the European Commission and the second SANTE/2020/C3/082-DC-BG donation contract of the SIC kits for one and one for the diagnosis of COVID-19 of the Republic of Bulgaria by the European Commission, No 46-102-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2021. Art. 1. Ratification of the grant contract SANTE/2020/C3/082-DC-BG of the kits for a single diagnostic of COVID-19 of the Republic of Bulgaria by the European Commission, signed on 24 March 2021 and 26 March 2021. Art. 2. Ratifying a second grant contract for SANTE/2020/C3/082-DC-BG of text sets for SCCs................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Final provisions § 1. Annex I to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 1 (specific/sensitive information) and Annex I to the Treaty under art. 2 (specific/sensitive information) shall not be published in the Official Journal. § 2. The law shall enter into force from the date of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u7	Thank you. Do you have editorial notes on the bill? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 80, para. The second sentence of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall make the following proposal for legal and technical amendments: § 1 to become art. 3; the name of the division to be amended as follows:..The closing provision.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u9	Thank you. I put to the vote the editorial amendments that have been made. They voted 183 MPs: 183, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Law on ratification of the Treaty of Donation along with the so-called editorial amendments. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. With this, the point is exhausted. Moving on to point two: LAW FOR THE RATIFITING OF A TRISTAL AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF COVID COVID COVID-19, PROCEEDED BY THE ASTRAZENEC, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE KINGDOM OF BUTAN AND ASTRAZENECIA AND THE TWISTLE AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF COVID-19 VACSITION AGRESENEC, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE KINGDOM OF BUTAN. Importer: Council of Ministers, 13 August 2021 Mr. Kirilov, please come in for the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u10	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by "AstraZeneca" between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Bhutan and the "AstraZeneca" and a Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by "AstraZeneka" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Bhutan, No 46-102-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2021. At its meeting on 31 August 2021, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the Donation of Vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Bhutan and the "AstraZeneka" and the Bilateral Agreement on the Donation of Vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Bhutan, No 46 102-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2021. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health, Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, representatives of the Ministry of Health, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. Prior to the presentation of the reasons, the President of the Committee on Health Associate Professor Silvi Kirilov drew attention to the fact that in the set of documents of the agreements covered by the bill under consideration there is a Declaration of absence of conflict of interest and respect for the confidentiality of acquisition by the Commission on behalf of the Member States of vaccines against COVID-19, while neither the accompanying letter nor the reasons for that declaration should be signed and, accordingly, by whom. In this regard, he asked the importer to specify how this declaration should be handled by the Committee on Health, respectively, of the National Assembly, in order to comply with the procedure for examining and voting on the ratification bill. In response to the question asked, Dr. Katsarov clarified that according to the requirements of the Agreement, by which the European Commission is authorised to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines (Advance Purchase Agreement), it is necessary to sign the above declaration by any person having access to the content of the agreements ratified by the National Assembly. The draft and the reasons for it were presented by Minister Katsarov, who informed the MPs that the Agreement, by which the European Commission is authorised to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines (Advance Purchase Agreement) with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, was approved by Decision No 491 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 and ratified by the Law on the ratification of the Agreement, by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines (Advance Purchase Agreement) with their producers, with the aim of Member States to obtain vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19 (on, pc. 71 from 2020) . The clause of art. 8.3, point (b) (b) of the preliminary agreement concluded between the European Commission (EC) and AstraZeneca, provides that, in the event of an excess of doses of vaccines, participating Member States may be able to donate them to countries with low or medium-sized incomes or to public institutions and to donate or resell such doses without profit to other European countries which agree to be bound by the terms of the Agreement applicable to a participating Member State. According to a report by the Chief State Health Inspector of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning the Agreement concluded by the European Commission and the quantities of vaccines laid down on a quota basis for each Member State that exceed the quantities actually required, a number of Member States have taken action on donations of surplus quantities to third countries to prevent, on the one hand, the destruction of pandemic vaccine due to failure and, on the other hand, to assist in ensuring equal access worldwide to vaccines against the new coronavirus. The report states that 300,000 doses of Vaxzevria vaccine and 100,000 doses of Comirnatti vaccine are available at the warehouse of Through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria have received letters requesting the donation of doses of vaccines by the manufacturer "AstraZeneka" of the Kingdom of Bhutan, as there is an acute need to receive vaccines against COVID-19, which has also been confirmed by a note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bhutan. The issue of donation of vaccines to the Kingdom of Bhutan is also raised within the EC Emergency Response Coordination Centre. Communication with the Kingdom of Bhutan is carried out through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with Decision No 503 of the Council of Ministers of 2021, those agreements were signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 15 July 2021 and forwarded through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Kingdom of Bhutan for subsequent signatures. The Agreements were signed by the Kingdom of Bhutan on 15 July 2021. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (The bilateral agreement) and received at the Ministry of Health on 16 July 2021. The tripartite agreement was sent for a subsequent signature by the manufacturer on 16 July 2021. It was signed on 18 July 2021 and received at the Ministry of Health on 19 July 2021. The draft agreements provide for a donation of 172 500 doses of Vaxzervria vaccine with an expiration date of 31 August 2021 and the quantity proposed for donation was received in the period 29 April Reason for the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Bhutan and the Kingdom of AstraZeneka, and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Bhutan is art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill provides for, on the basis of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the ratified agreements should not be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria because of the confidentiality requirements laid down therein, as well as in the Agreement concluded between the European Commission and the European Commission. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health raised specific questions regarding the need to ratify the agreements under consideration, given the current expiry date of the vaccines, as well as whether the Republic of Bulgaria should recover the funds for the production of the European Commission for donated vaccines. A question was also raised about the Ministry of Health's plans regarding vaccines that are due to expire in the coming months and how many vaccines have been destroyed at present due to failure. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the Committee on Health has proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Bhutan and the Council of Ministers on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Bhutan, No 46 102-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u11	There is no report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! We have a chance for this barren National Assembly to adopt a third bill in the form of ratification, this is news. However, I would like to comment on this ratification of the Political Party GERB. The good news is that the government of GERB has provided enough vaccines of all kinds to ensure not only the life and health of Bulgarian citizens, but also to donate them. The good news is that this office is fulfilling the World Health Organisation's call to assist with vaccines countries with low gross domestic product and low incomes. Only with the good news so far. The vaccination campaign in Bulgaria is stalling, I would not say failure, because still vaccines are being made, but not enough to ensure smooth passage through the fourth wave of the coronavirus and the responsibility here is already in the office, which manages more than 100 days. I believe that such ratifications will also not contribute to overcoming anti-Vaxer moods in society, because they will say: see, we have enough, we will donate them, there is no problem not using vaccines. And at the same time, in hospitals, in intensive wards, young people die, and that's because green corridors were blocked, which gave access precisely to active young people to be vaccinated so they could not spread the infection. And here again the responsibility lies with this office and this minister of service. However, the responsibility is also ours because the unstable political environment contributes to the general distrust of vaccines and the fact that we allow statements to be made here from this tribune, which call into question the effectiveness of vaccines, also leads to the fact that the Bulgarian people are one of the most skeptical. And unfortunately, we're at the sad last place on vaccination coverage in Europe. I believe that this National Assembly should really show a radically different approach and at least some responsibility to the life and health of Bulgarian citizens................... to at least from here to come up with a common call that vaccines are one of the greatest discoveries of modern medicine. It's the only way to deal with the challenges of the pandemic and get back to normal lifestyle. We will abstain from this ratification and for another reason it has turned out that the donation has already been made. And I want the Minister to clarify here: did he mislead the Prime Minister to say in this House last week that the donation has not yet been made at my request, or did the Prime Minister lie to the National Assembly? I believe that the National Assembly cannot be used as a rubber seal, albeit in a routine and permitted procedure....................................................................................... It would be right if you had a claim to restore parliamentaryism in Bulgaria, because all claims were that he was severely injured in our government [[the President signals that time has run out]] , to be able to respect the Assembly as a factor that gives consent in advance. That is why we will abstain from this ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u13	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Gadget? Here you are, Mr. Minister, to take an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Daritkova, have some shame when you stand here and twist the facts. [[Radio, noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]] The reason we donate vaccines is because your government has negotiated vaccines in excess of AstraZeneca and in lack of Pfizer. For this reason, in the first three months in the country there were no vaccines for the population to be vaccinated with. 30,000 vaccines were given in January, 170,000 doses were given in February. Your bullet Boyko Borisov was running around using vaccination teams and mobile teams in his election campaign. [[Reply from GERB-SDS:..Enough nonsense!..]] You vaccinated organized football clubs, sports clubs and other companies [[Applause from IHN]] , and the elderly, who are most threatened by death, were left fourth in your vaccination plan, which was adopted in January month and completed in February! The reason why no one in Bulgaria today wants to be vaccinated with AstraZeneca vaccines and donate them also owe to a large extent not only international scandals but also to the personal intervention of your patron Boyko Borisov. He single-handedly, without having the right to this thing, banned the use of this vaccine for no reason at all, a week later he authorised it. So now no one in Bulgaria wants to be vaccinated with AstraZeneca and we have to donate them. Here are the facts. 900 thousand vaccinations were made in five months by the government of GERB. A million and 300,000 vaccinations were made at the time when he managed the caretaker government in three months. Those are the facts! The responsibility for the failure of this campaign is entirely the government of GERB and do not try to transfer it to anyone. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Right now we're trying to repair the damage you've done, but the damage to people's minds, the attitudes created are irreparable! [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u15	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I was not normally willing to make a statement outside the subject of the contract itself, but according to your conclusions, given that I was given my second dose of the vaccine during the caretaker government, it seems that it was your credit that I was vaccinated with a second dose. The first dose is more important to take the step. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] By the way, there was media speculation and research on the vaccine itself, and I remember March, because of different side effects: whether it was due to this vaccine or not. Thank God, the doctors at the European Medicines Agency have shown that this thing has no correlation and people continue to inoculate with it. Nothing wrong with any of the vaccine products, I just remember that in February and April there were debates here about buying a fourth vaccine. It's a good thing we didn't buy it, that I think we should have donated it by now. But here I have a specific statement on the treaty itself, Madam President, because in principle ratifications have always been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy, and now it turns out that these ratifications are not distributed. None, by the way, has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy, and therefore we, as a special committee dealing with such a topic, cannot give our opinion. Here it makes an impression........................................................................................... 2 of the bill itself that is used art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, i.e. the agreement between Bhutan, AstraZeneca and Bulgaria not to be published, i.e. to remain a secret agreement. This is a vicious practice for me, and I therefore declare, Madam President, that I will make a proposal between the two readings of the Bill, the attachment of the Law is not to be published and the contract itself to be published in the Official Gazette. This way I think it will be the most transparent for all Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u17	I mean, drop out of art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u18	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u19	It's more like dropping out of art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u20	Yeah. Depending on the legal technique, the contract itself can already be published, so I am making this proposal. I am saying that I will make this proposal between readings to make it clear what the contract is and what clauses the Bulgarian side has taken over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am provoked by your attitude regarding the statement of Mrs Daritkova and the causal link that you found with regard to one of the vaccines used in Bulgaria, with the decisions of the government of GERB and personally of the Prime Minister at that time Mr. Boyko Borisov. If you are right, Mr. Katsarov, it turns out that Mr. Boyko Borisov, in addition to making decisions concerning the vaccination process in the Republic of Bulgaria, has also made decisions concerning the vaccination process in a number of European countries, and not only. On 30 March, dear Mr. Katsarov, due to new cases of clots specifically with this vaccine in Germany, vaccination is stopped in Berlin. The vaccination is also stopped in 17 other countries that received a dose of this vaccine, while the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) does not officially take the view that it is safe. In this sense, Mr. Katsarov, would you add to your attitude whether Mr. Borisov stopped the vaccination process in Norway, in Denmark, in Austria, in Estonia, in Germany, or only the decisions... [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" In Barcelona has stopped! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u23	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u24	...that concern the Bulgarian vaccination calendar? Do you understand that such a ridiculous statement with one purpose only to seek indulgence for the fact that over 100 days your government and specifically you cannot handle either the vaccination process or convince the Bulgarian citizens that it is important to vaccinate or offer any measures for the business?! Then answer me: why is the Bulgarian business going on a protest in another day, including today? Neither have you proposed an active vaccination plan nor have you proposed measures! Come on, you've already been looking for an excuse with the GERB government and with Mr. Borisov it's time to write the three envelopes. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, with one thing I just want to fill you in, as it should be clear a mathematics. According to data that were released just now by the minister of the service, 900,000 vaccinations were made in the first four months of the year. For the next four months, from May to September, 1 million and 300,000. Given that all vaccinations are generally with two needles, i.e. first and second vaccinations, it is logical that 900,000 from May vaccines are actually a second needle, i.e. from 1 million and 300,000, we need to subtract 900,000, which is actually the second needle of already vaccinated with the first needle in the first half of the year, i.e. in the first four months, which means that there are 400,000 who have been vaccinated for the next four months, or twice as much as in the first four months of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u27	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Second line? I can't see. A hole? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u28	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! It is easy for the current Minister of Health to say who was responsible for managing the coronavirus crisis from its occurrence to May. The management of GERB was responsible, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov was responsible, the National Operational Headquarters, the Minister of Health and all who had their responsibility. Very difficult in two months' time, someone will be able to tell who was responsible for managing the crisis after May. Very hard! It would be very difficult to even think who was prime minister, for example, because the current prime minister went on television and said: I have no relation to the health crisis. The President is not opening his mouth at all on the subject of the one who appointed them ministers. You yourself occasionally try to transfer all responsibility down to the people. They are something crooked in this case or you wait for ideas from them. That's no way to manage a crisis! We may have made mistakes, but we have always gone out and said who is responsible for our actions and decisions! No minister in this government, neither the Prime Minister nor the President has taken responsibility for one single thing and for one single act. That's what the army calls stashing. And your government is a government of squatters. Thank you for your attention. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u29	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u30	Dear Mr. Bikov, the issue of responsibility is extremely important and in this management of the caretaker government, and also the National Assembly. But let us go back to the concrete ratification that we are currently voting on. Since the Minister did not respond to the National Assembly, I will quote what he said in the Health Commission: The expiration date of the donated vaccines was 31 August 2021 and they have already been donated to Bhutan. So not only are they not responsible, they also do not respect parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Any other lines? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Bikov, would you like one?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u32	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u33	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u34	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, listen to what you're saying. If what you are proposing was respected, we would not be voting ratification now, but we would be talking about destroyed 50 thousand, 100,000, 200,000 vaccines. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Is that what you're offering the National Assembly? It's the only option. The law allows it, the Constitution allows it, under a contract that you want to publish, this is a treaty that has been ratified by the National Assembly by your majority, a contract that has been concluded by your government. All we are trying to do in these few months in the field of health care is to repair the damage you have done to the health care system with your 10-year management. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u35	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u36	Thank you, Mr. Katsarov. A statement? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Let's tell each other the truth, guys. When the crisis began, there was a responsible government that tried in every way to protect society from what was coming. The whole world had no idea what it was dealing with. There were no vaccines, there was no treatment, the hospitals were filling up very quickly. And while the GERB government was trying to minimize the damage, of course, with the agreement that even some of the measures, there were accusations that there were measures that were being made, then changed, yes, it is, but it is normal, because in the battle you are fighting, with an enemy that you do not know, it is quite logical to make such movements. However, the truth is this: the government was able to provide vaccines in a timely manner so that the population could be vaccinated. This, to this day, is the only medically reasonable option, as far as I can see, to protect society from this great problem. But what's the problem? The problem is that since Borisov's government no longer manages the health crisis and is not responsible, you did not actually lift a finger. And I'll tell you why. You didn't lift a finger because you couldn't imagine, and you didn't plan on being in that chair today. And because of that, these three or four months, over 100 days, you have not taken a step forward. Yes, you say that you have come to repair the damage for 10 years, which has been done to Bulgarian healthcare, but I do not hear what you have done. Do you know what you've done? You removed the operational headquarters, you didn't offer anything different. You removed doctors, respected professionals from hospitals, who carried out with all their heart and soul the battle that led the country against the coronavirus. You took them off! And these were people who proclaimed that people should be vaccinated, including Professor Kantardzhiev, Professor Baltov and others, not to mention them. And now you want to convince me that when you removed these people who were conductors of the idea of the Bulgarian population being vaccinated as quickly as possible, what sign do you show to society? You say, "These people, I don't trust them. They're actually saying things that aren't true, and that's why I don't count on them anymore. The truth is, you just didn't give the bill that you're running. These summer, beautiful months, when the incidence rate was low, you didn't lift a finger at all, because you had to rest now, but so you had your fate that you had to take responsibility. And stop transferring the ball from one head to another.. You are responsible, your Prime Minister and at the very top Rumen Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u38	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. For lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u39	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Colleague Nenkov, with political talk you are trying to extract dividends from a purely humane act because vaccines save lives. I appeal: people, vaccinate yourself! No matter where people live in Bhutan or in Bulgaria, these vaccines have saved lives and human lives. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u40	Thank you. Here you go for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u41	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues of GERB, I am really sitting and wondering how it is possible in such a cheeky way to distort the truth?! You ordered, absolutely unargumented then, huge doses of AstraZeneca only because the price of this vaccine was lower. In the 2021 budget, the amount allocated to an information campaign for vaccination shall be 10 thousand. lv. Well, aren't you really ashamed?! In your time, all national televisions promoted anti-vacation and you allowed national televisions to speak to people who openly spoke against vaccination. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Don't try your mistakes to transfer them to someone you bet them to to fix them. Because both the lack of an information campaign and the need to look for a solution for those vaccines that you ordered without absolutely any justification, not like the other countries order in normal proportions, but you bet on the cheap option, someone now needs to fix the mistakes that you made back then. And at the very least, you should be ashamed to go out and talk like that out of this tribune! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u42	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u43	In the form of a third line, I will answer that we have nothing to be ashamed of. We have ensured sufficient quantities of vaccines and this ratification is in favour of this. We guaranteed vaccines that were recommended by the experts at the time, because in the most advanced phase of study and opportunity to use was precisely this vaccine. We ordered this vaccine on expert advice precisely because it was easy to store and logistics and would have enabled more quickly to achieve coverage. Under no circumstances can we control the media. They are free and there is no way we can influence anti-Vaxer moods in them. [[(Noise, lines, laughs and shouts from IHN and DB: Aaaaaa!]] At the same time, they didn't stop now. After disbanding GERB's vaccination headquarters and setting up a new vaccination advisory board, let's ask the minister how many times he then collected this vaccination board and what they did...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u44	Mrs. Daritkova, your line is to Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u45	...what did they contribute? Mr. Nenkov, what have you seen in the vaccination company implemented by this office? In what way were Bulgarian citizens convinced of the safety and benefit of vaccines in the facts of the low rate of immunizations we have at the moment and against the background of previous statements by the Minister of Health, which also compromised both the anti-epidemic measures and the vaccination campaign?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u46	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u47	Mrs. Bachkova, to put it mildly, I'm shocked. I didn't know that the government could determine the policy of national televisions for whom to invite and who not. [[Noise, lines and shouts by ITN and DB: "Eee! "]] Just a reminder. According to this logic the Minister of Health Dr. Katsarov should not have been a participant in the media either, as he promoted a very serious anti-Vaxer opinion. Isn't that right? Or don't I remember? Are we ashamed? Well, colleagues, excuse me, but our government with teeth and claws struggled to contribute the state to minimize the damage from the coronavirus, to have timely vaccines. And you didn't care at all at the time. You were protesting. You had absolutely no problem with the coronavirus, so even the advisor at the moment of the Minister of Culture, officially appointed by the Ministry of Culture, was burning masks. Other colleagues explained that masks were meant to be stopped talking, to silence them. Not to speak to other more colorful expressions on the left, which commented on what could go through and what could not go through the mask. That's the truth. Shame on us for what?! We did everything we could to meet this huge problem while you were playing Protestants. Mrs Daritkova said, by the way, that this is the third law that we are voting on, which is Ratification, the second one was for NSO. I think the NTAC Act and which one to use a car or not to use a car very much contributes to this.. the upcoming battles and the fourth wave that is currently raging. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u48	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. For speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Katsarov, you have said several times that the elderly were a fourth group and are thus not prioritized. Let's say which were first, second, which were the priority groups? It was the doctors. I assume you don't mind doctors being a priority group. The second group were teachers, teachers and workers in the education system. I await your opinion. Do you think they were supposed to be a priority group? And the rest who were prioritized were the members of the electoral committees. That was until the end of March. Do you think they shouldn't have been vaccinated? Accordingly, we should have been accused of sabotaging the elections. Thanks to the fact that teachers and workers in the education system were prioritized, we had more presenceal education process in April, May and June. With comparable total values, we had twice and a half fewer sick teachers in March than in November. There are studies, including the Robert Koch Institute, which I assume you have read, which show that if the distribution is limited to the active groups, the most vulnerable groups will be protected to a greater extent, as the active groups are more involved in the distribution chain and contribute to the spread. Please, the next time you repeat this thesis, specify whether you were against the priority vaccination of doctors, teachers and members of election committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u50	Thank you. For lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister of Service, the accusations are that these vaccines, i.e. the distrust in GERB-SDS parliamentary group, are that these vaccines should, of course, be donated. It is unacceptable that, when vaccines are needed in countries which do not have the opportunity to buy them, they should not be distributed there. The question is, what happened that this ratification was not requested earlier? I would like to remind you that the National Assembly is not resting. As I recall, you were brought back from some kind of holiday, but that's another topic. As for the number of vaccines and what and how many were ordered, I would like to remind you that there was an hysteria at the beginning to deliver a sufficient number of vaccines. You remember what reports were on TV who, how he was vaccinated without being in the relevant first and second group because he had a really great interest at the beginning for these vaccinations. People were crucified who, by finishing the vial that was opened, took the liberty of giving themselves a vaccine. However, this interest subsequently decreased. The vaccines that were provided were provided to cover the entire population of Bulgaria. Another question is that at the moment, for one reason or another, it is clear what is the reason why there is not enough campaign to explain why we should be vaccinated, we have a remainder of vaccines that have an expiry date. It's normal, it's logical, it's human beings to be donated. The question is why do you want ratification now? I believe that the pressure that was put on the previous government for not providing enough vaccines, you remember that on the left hand side it was meant to be imported a new vaccine, not to mention it here, because, you see, we do not have enough for Bulgaria, turned out to be unfaithful.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u52	Thank you, Mr. Christov. For lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, just two words, because there have been a lot of untruths here. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] I'm not an antivaxer, and I've never been one. I'm a doctor! You can't understand that. I've been given vaccines, I've been given vaccines. This is one of the greatest achievements of medical science. However, I did not terminate the Headquarters you were talking about, it was terminated by your Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. He terminated the National Operational Headquarters, not me, not the current Prime Minister Yanev and not the current Prime Minister Yanev appointed not one but two headquarters with opposite speech. One of the headquarters said one thing, the second headquarters said the exact opposite. Do you remember that thing? You remember him! As far as the priority for the medics is concerned. Of course, the medics were a priority in all countries, but in each of the civilized countries, along with the medics, in the first stage of the vaccination process, the elderly were vaccinated because then and now 85% of the deceased are over 60 years of age. The refusal of the government of GERB to put the elderly in the first phase to vaccinate those who are most endangered, practically sacrificing the elderly generation of the country. That's the result. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're closing the debate. We move on to the first vote of the Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Bhutan and the Kingdom of AstraZeneca, and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Bhutan. Vote 139 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u55	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted in the first vote should be examined and put to the second vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u56	[[GERB-SDS, from place]] You have no right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u57	Back-up proposal procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u58	You're going to make an offer on the bill? Here's your offer back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u59	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am making a reverse proposal, as the proposal in question concerns, where there are no stated intentions and declarations to submit a proposal between the two readings, and there are none. I have made a similar proposal, so I am making a reverse proposal, rather to shorten the period of three days' worth.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u60	Okay. I put to the vote the proposal made to shorten the period between the two readings to three days. Vote 134 MPs: 83 against 50, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CASE 2021 Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021. Adopted in first vote on 26 August 2021. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to examine first the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Social Security, as it has a direct impact in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the National Health Insurance Fund, so I propose by procedure that we move the points 3 and 4, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u62	Four to three.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u63	Yeah, that's right. That makes three.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u64	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for the displacement of the points.. four becomes three, three.. four. Vote 137 MPs: 130, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u65	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u66	Here you are, Mrs. Capon, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u67	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I suggest the inclusion of BNT 1 and BNR cameras in viewing both budgets.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u68	Thank you. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. They voted 129 MPs: 108, against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Please direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. I request that the Chairman of the Steering Committee report on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u69	Before I begin with the Bill, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Insurance Institute, please allow the representatives of the National Insurance Institute: Ivaylo Ivanov
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u70	Thank you. Please vote on the proposal so made. They voted 114 MPs: 110, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u71	The Council of Ministers submitted a report on a draft amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021, No 46-102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021, adopted on the first vote on 26 August 2021. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. (prom., D.V., No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u72	Thank you. Please vote on the proposed name of the Law. Voted 103 MPs: 97, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. There's no quorum. Verification of the quorum through the computerised system. There's no quorum. I'm interrupting the meeting for 20 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u73	We shall continue the meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We all swore in words that the most important act of this National Assembly should be the update of the budget. You all wanted us to hold the mandate until the budget update was adopted, because this is vital for the stability of the state and the security of the people. From 11:00 to 1:00, however, many of you are playing with procedural catch-ups and so on, which contradicts the stated intentions. For us, absolutely in principle and consistently, the budget update remains question number 1 and, as you know, it has already been announced at 17.00 we will return the mandate. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose an extension of working hours today as much as is necessary until the update of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and of state social security is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u75	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made to extend the working day until the points of the Programme for Today's Workday have been completed. They voted 144 MPs: 130, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put the name of the Law to the first vote. [[National Representative Toma Bikov wants the floor for declaration.]] Right now, let the vote pass. Vote 148 MPs: 146, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, for a statement from a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u76	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! During the last few days, a serious political scandal has been waged before the eyes of the entire society, which should not be analyzed and left to subside without the necessary consequences and conclusions. The chairman of the largest parliamentary group in the Forty-sixth National Assembly has accused the Vice-President of the current Parliament of political corruption. According to Mr. Toshko Yordanov, Ms. Tatiana Doncheva offered 500,000. lv. There is such a people and thus to form the long-awaited government of change. Later, Mr. Radostin Vassilev, Chair of the Law Commission in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, confirmed this information, explaining further details which hardly is appropriate for me to recite from this high tribune. GERB's parliamentary group will not take sides in this dispute. We will not allow ourselves to give judgments or give moral assessments. What we have to do, however, is look for the truth and find it. So far, there is an obvious public fact that, at the highest political level, people who, before the elections, claimed to rule together, make serious accusations that either need to be proved or, if they are lying, political responsibility must be exercised. If Mr. Yordanov and Mr. Vassilev are telling the truth, then Mrs. Doncheva has no place in politics and vice versa. If they have lied, then their place is neither in this Chamber nor in political life, whose only power lies in the trust of society. Simply put: one of the two sides lies and we must do everything we can to make the truth come to light. There is yet another obvious political fact. The scandal between the gentlemen Yordanov and Vassilev, on the one hand, and Mrs Doncheva, on the other, is a logical conclusion of the failure of the second parliament to broadcast a government to the so-called parties of change. What has happened in recent months is a mockery above all with the people who protested in the squares in the summer of 2020. It is also a mockery with the other Bulgarian citizens who will have to pay the price for political illiteracy, impropriety and dishonesty of the leaders of the so-called parties of change. Ladies and gentlemen, has there been a change? It happened, but by all accounts, it's not for the best. Instead of developing anti-crisis programmes related to health, economic, social and geopolitical challenges facing the country, the parties of change wasted several months in scandals, fruitless bargaining and unsuccessful attempts to establish common governance. Today, when the crises that the caretaker government of their patron Rumen Radev is unable to govern, escalate, we witness even worse scandals between those who were declared by the President a year ago as the brotherhood of the honorable. All this is happening on the eve of the vote on the update of the budget for 2021. GERB's parliamentary group refused to support the update at first reading precisely because of the lack of a clear majority to take responsibility for the change of the most important political law. Today, we can see that this position was not only adequate but also the only one possible. After a while Mrs. Doncheva from Stand up BG! He will have to form a budget majority together with Mr. Yordanov and Mr. Vassilev from "There is such a people"! What exactly could produce such a majority?! How, at this point, will they be able to take responsibility together for decisions that will remain valid not only for the next few months, but also for the next few years?! How, in a time of crisis of trust for the Bulgarian institutions with such scandals, will we give rise to confidence in the Bulgarian voters that we are able to take responsibility and together meet the challenges facing the country?! Honourable Members, on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group, I urge the President to announce an appointment for early parliamentary elections and to dissolve the Forty-sixth National Assembly. Every day delay will cost the political system more scandals and more burned bridges between the political forces. It is time to put aside the close party interest and protect the interest of society, and it is clear that the Bulgarian society with every passing day of this Parliament will lose more confidence in both the so-called parties of change and the possibility of the state functioning normally at a time of crisis. If Parliament's work is artificially extended by the President, the GERB parliamentary group will submit a request for the establishment of a Poll Committee on Case with Mrs. Doncheva and Mr. Yordanov, so that at least part of the relations between the so-called parties of change can be clarified in her work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u77	Thank you. Mr. Karimansky, please report § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u78	A proposal has been received under § 1 by the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly: "1." Art. 1, Art. 1. 1, para. 1, the total amount of the general budget of the public contribution to the revenue and transfers is amended by the total amount of the general budget of the public contribution to the revenue and transfers from 2. Art. 1, Art. 1. 1, para. 1, I RECEIVES AND TRANSFERS ALL THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE NEIGHBOURHOOD. 3. Art. 1, Art. 1. 1, para. 1, t. 5 Additional transfers received from the central/state budget to cover the capital needs of the number 4. Paragraph 1, Art. 1, para. 2, the total amount of the general budget of the public contribution to the expenditure and transfers is amended by the total amount of the general budget of the public contribution to the expenditure and transfers from 5. Art. 1, Art. 1. 1, para. 2, p. 1.1.1 Pensions at the expense of state social security the number 6. Art. 1, Art. 1. 1, para. 2, p. 1.2. Social benefits and benefits the number The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the people presented Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in paragraph 1: In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 1, para. 1 and para. 2 the number s15 194 455.5 thousand. lv. s is replaced by the number s15 394 455.5 thousand. lv. In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 1, para. 1 number..8 555 510.3 thousand. lv. is replaced by 8 755 510.3 thousand. lv. In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 1, para. 2 the number s 12 700 933.4 thousand. lv. is replaced by 12 900 933.4 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Paragraph 1 shall make the following amendments: 1. In the text of para. One in line five. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2. In the text of para. 2: (a) of row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. (b) of row 1.1. The number of pensions is replaced by 12 889 633.4 and 12 700 933.4 and is replaced by 12 889 633.4. (c) of row 1.2. "Social benefits and benefits' the number suppl. 2 038,654,9 "is replaced by suppl.2 060 194,4 "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The following amendments shall be made to Article 1: 1. In paragraph 1: (a) In the basic text, the number,15 194 455.5 (b) In line "I." Revenues and transfers (c) Line The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) In row The sum of the contributions shall be equal to the sum of the following: (e) Line Transfers received from the central budget for the State Social Security. (f) Line The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. In paragraph 2: (a) In the main text, the number (b) In line "I." Expenditures and transfers (c) Line The sum of the costs of the number of the company's activities is equal to the sum of the costs of the company's activities and costs of the company's activities. (d) In row The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (e) Line Pensions at the expense of the State Social Security (public contribution) shall be replaced by the number "12 516 140,2 " is replaced by the number "12 766 740,2 ". (f) Line.1.1.2. Pensions at the expense of the public budget. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Deliana Pesheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Art. 1. is amended as follows: Art. 1 (1) Adopts the consolidated budget of state social security for revenue and transfers of a total of 15 250 855.5 thousand. BGN as follows: (according to the table in the Report). (2) It shall adopt the consolidated budget of the State Social Security for the expenditure and transfers of a total of 15 250 855.5 thousand. BGN as follows: (according to the table in the Report). (3) Accepts deficit (excess) and funding under the state social security budget as follows: (according to the table in the report).
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the debate. For speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u80	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up BG! She has made a proposal proposing an increase in revenues and transfers to the state social security budget, respectively in terms of costs and transfers. Our proposal included a 50 leva supplement. to all pensioners monthly until the end of this year, as an anti-coffid measure to ensure that, in the context of recalculation of pensions, as proposed by the caretaker governmentq, there will be no social group to receive a lower pension than that which has received so far plus the corresponding allowances, including those of 50 levs. Since the Budget Committee has not accepted this proposal and understanding between the parliamentary groups is to support those supported by the Budget Commission, I am proposing at least 4 million. lv. to increase revenue and transfers to the budget of state social security, respectively costs. So plus 4 million to be added to art. 1, para. 1; then in "Receipts and transfers" This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. This is necessary in order to protect people with disabilities, those who receive social pensions for disability and who with the allowance of 50 BGN. They received BGN 213 and 220 respectively. We have made relevant proposals in the State Budget Act for amendments to the Social Security Code so that the percentage of the social pension that people with disabilities receive is increased so that they are not harmed as a result of these changes, but according to the estimates of both the Budget Commission and the Finance Ministry in revenue, respectively, in the costs of state social security, should be laid down at least another 4 million. BGN, so that this payment to people with disabilities can be made by the end of this year. It is about those who have a rate of disability from 90 to 100% and those who have a rate of disability from 70 to 90% who have never worked because they are simply unable to work, are unable to serve and deal with their most daily needs. I appeal to you, the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable, not to damage them further and simply accept this editorial supplement, which is only 4 million. lv. Only 4 million. BGN, which will enable people with disabilities not to receive less than they have received until now with the allowance of 50 BGN. Of course, if you accept our proposal to all receive plus 50 BGN, this would be the best solution, but since there is no such understanding, willingness and will of the MPs, at least for the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. For lines? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! With al. 1 determine the revenues and transfers to the state social security, and by para. 2 shall determine the costs and transfers to the state social security. The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is a coherent and time-resistant social policy. These policies are followed continuously in time and are carried out every time the budgets of state social security and state budget are adopted. Our policies for the social security system are: periodic recalculation of pensions with an up-to-date medium-term income; their annual update; the elimination of the maximum monthly amount of social and health insurance income and the maximum amount of pension; the increase in the contribution of the internship to the formula for the size of the pension; the coefficient for each year of insurance internship by 2025 to reach 1,5; the extension of existing flexible elements to encourage the longer stay on the labour market; e.g. each year of service after acquisition the right of pension to bear a higher percentage and all payments not related to the social security contribution to be withdrawn from the state social security and borne from the state budget. Now, led by the belief that the policies proposed, especially when updating the budget, must be fully tailored to the changed financial capabilities of the budget... in the case of state social security, and to the basic principles and the legislative framework adopted in the field of social security. That is why we have reduced our proposals to recalculating pensions, increasing the amount of compensation in the second year of maternity. In order to finance these two changes, more than the 210 million foreseen in the budget is needed. 239 thousand. 500 leva. We propose an increase in additional transfers from the central budget to the state social security budget to cover the lack of funds by 210 million. 239 thousand. 500 leva. This is reflected in our proposal for changes in the text of para. 1 of row 5: The additional transfers received from the state budget to cover the capital needs. We offer: The increase in pension costs of 188 thousand. In the proposal to update the budget and initiate the proposals, it should be reflected in the next lines of para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 1, art. 2, para. Art. 2, Art. 3, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 5, para. 2. Next, we propose: "Increasing the cost of social benefits and benefits by 21 million. 539 thousand. 500 BGN, with these funds to increase the amount of compensation for raising a child up to 2 years of age. At the moment the amount of this compensation is 380 BGN and our proposal is to be: What we offer as a transfer from the state budget is quite possible because of the increased income from indirect taxes, excise taxes and VAT. Even after we have been very conservative about the revenue side of the budget, we have foreseen revenue of 531 million. $250,000. lv. in more of which are to be used for pensions and for an increase in motherhood. Dear Members of Parliament, I appeal to all of you to support the proposal in the name of justice for Bulgarian pensioners and for the sake of young people who have decided to give birth and raise children in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u83	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u84	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2021 submitted by the Council of Ministers has sparked many debates and proposals from different parliamentary groups, from public and employers' organizations. Now, honourable Members, we have a chance to meet the expectations of our senior compatriots and to show reason and will to the coming difficult times and to provide the Bulgarian pensioners with peace and security. We have a difficult fall ahead of us with presidential elections and parliamentary elections. We are looking at a new powerful wave of different variants of a horse, which will certainly face trials Bulgarian citizens. Among these citizens are the Bulgarian pensioners, who will suffer the most during this period in both economic and health terms. That is why we from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are proposing an update of the budget of state social security. It provides for a disposable aid of 120 BGN. for the months of October, November and December for all pensioners, I stress: for all pensioners, because in the update offered by the office, some of the pensioners will be harmed. Here we must take into account not only the health crisis we are facing, but also the moving inflation, which slowly but surely eats away the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. That is why we from the Parliamentary Group of "Action for Rights and Freedoms" propose an increase in the income from social security contributions by 200 million. lv. In the report of the state social security budget for the crisis 2020, the increase in the income from social contributions is nearly 360 million. lv. For only the first six months of this year, honourable Members, the increase in income from insurance contributions is 230 million. lv. It's more about the plan. This is what Minister of Service Assen Vassilev said during a hearing of all three ministers: the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Minister of Health. Allow me to make a few arguments in support of this 200 million. lv. Overexecution is quite possible. First, the revised forecast for economic development of Bulgaria according to data from the European Commission is about 3%. Secondly, the expected inflation by the end of the year is also around 3%. Thirdly, but not least, of course, in the reasons of the Bill it is stated that 116 000 people increased the number of insured for 2021 and this gives us reason that these additional revenues of 200 million. lv. are implemented by the end of 2021. That is why from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We offer this one-time support to all Bulgarian pensioners in the amount of 120 BGN. for the months of October, November and December and let the new regular cabinet, which is in its right, for the next 2022, propose pension reform according to its understandings and views. We at the DPS believe that in the worst winter months Bulgarian pensioners need solid support of 120 BGN, and not as the office offers 64 BGN. the average pensioner, and not all of them, and in this case the most injured are those with the lowest pensions. That is why from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we appeal: let us support this proposal for 120 BGN. an addition to pensions for the months of October, November and December. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ali. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u86	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! We from the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! In this § 1 we propose to increase revenues in the budget of state social security by 422 million. lv. The reason for this is the galloping inflation, as well as the increase in revenue from value added tax, as well as excise duties, lead to the expectation, absolutely justified expectation that at least 500 million. lv. They're gonna go beyond what the office has planned. Therefore, what we foresee as a change in part leva, it's completely realistic. Why these 422 million are needed. lv. in part "Accesses"? We propose that they be distributed so that pensioners first receive a minimum rate. On our offer of 300 leva. the minimum pension to be raised to 369 BGN, in addition to this money people who are on minimum pension, as well as all other pensioners over 369 BGN, including people who take social pensions for old age, people who take social pensions for disability, will receive additional 50 BGN. for the months of October, November and December. So the people who get a minimum pension will take not 369 levs, but 419 levs. At least. Everyone else will also be raised by 50 leva. As I said, this is completely realistic according to expected additional revenue. The reason we want this precisely for the months of October, November and December is that these are expected the worst months for both Bulgarian pensioners and disabled and the weakest social groups in the Republic of Bulgaria because, firstly, electricity prices will increase according to the forecasts of the KEWRC. There is a proposal to increase the cost of water by 30% on average, which, if not stopped, will once again hit the most vulnerable people in terms of their incomes, as well as the increased costs of combating the coronary epidemic, the increased costs of medical medicine will cause the need for these 50 levs, which we propose, to be vital. In addition, our proposal, we propose to further separate 25 million from the budget. lv. "Accessive care for mothers of children from one to two years of age. Right now they're taking £380. as support in case they stay home to watch their children for every month from the first to the second year, but this is an old estimate from four years ago, which was then consistent with the minimum wage of 380 BGN. Now we propose to update this estimate. Let's go up at £380. at BGN 650, again in line with the minimum wage as of 2021, in order to help mothers of children from one to two years old and in order to be able to raise their children. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are aware that the 422 million we are proposing to the Commission are not accepted, we are asking for the proposal that the Budget Commission has approved, at least to add this 4 million. BGN, which Mrs. Manolova asked here from this platform for disabled people, for people who take disability pensions so that this group is not forgotten, not to fall, so to speak, from the cart and they can take at least such funds and such social pensions as they have taken before the budget update. I mean, let's not hit this group through the budget update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u87	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u88	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Donev! The proposal that the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ has made is in terms of increasing the revenues with respectively 100 million from insurance contributions and 150 million from transfers from the central budget, and this proposal includes providing an addition in the months of October, November and December of 100 BGN, a horizontal supplement for all Bulgarian pensioners to compensate for the adverse consequences of COVID-19, increased costs for medicines, increased inflation and increased prices of electricity. We believe that a horizontal supplement is much fairer and much more corresponds to the subject of the budget update, as we continue to believe that the update of the state social security budget is not the place where proposals of a strategic nature need to be taken that have a reflection in the medium-term macro framework of the state budget. We also believe that the ceiling for maximum pensions should be dropped, so that 22 million are included within these revenues, which are for dropping the maximum ceiling of pensions. By the end of this year, this will be sufficient funds, as the proposal made at the moment increases the number of people who will be limited by the maximum ceiling of pensions. At the moment, it is 24,500, and it is about to become 36,000. Given that the proposals adopted in the Budget Committee respectively with regard to the minimum pension to increase from 300 to 370 BGN and therefore the individual coefficient to increase to 1.35, which makes an average increase of 64 BGN, we continue to believe that instead of making changes of strategic nature, it is better to talk about an average supplement, or if you accept what the Budget Committee has adopted, the average addition to be of 70 BGN. for a pensioner for the months of October, November and December by the end of this year, without, I repeat, making decisions that have a strategic character and have a reflection in the mid-term forecast of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ananiev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I hope you all remember my speech during the first vote in the three committees and in plenary regarding the update of the three budgets. There I quite honestly, frankly and kindly suggested that the update of the three budgets be done on the basis of the principles and rules laid down in the Public Finance Act, not to introduce new strategic policies and not to create chaos in the implementation of the budget for this year, as well as the budget for 2022 and the three-year budget forecast. I'll explain that last one in a minute. When does a country update its budgets? Where, in one or all three budgets, there is a cash disruption, that is to say, a disproportionate increase or a reduction in revenue and expenditure, or both together, which cannot be implemented policies and programmes that are laid down in the corresponding budget for 2021. What are we witnessing? We are witnessing decisions on strategic policies from now on, which will affect 2021 and the three-year budget forecast, without having neither the draft budget for 2022 nor have a three-year budget forecast. In this sense, I support the proposal made by Mrs. Sacheva, as it corresponds to the proposal of the importers pensioners to receive 70 leva. an increase, but this will be a horizontal supplement by the end of the year and then the new regular government, which will have its own programme, its priorities, will also propose what new pension policy we should propose. This attempt to bring into force the new pension reform, I would not say why it only concerns the size of pensions, gave a number of MPs the opportunity to make dozens of proposals regarding the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the update for this year, and in 50% of them these are long-term policies and we will put the next government in a very difficult situation in which it will not be able to implement its programme, but will have its hands tied and will have to implement the decisions that we will make in just a few days and regarding the state budget. Please, this is a very serious matter and it is very responsible. Without a three-year budget forecast and without a budget for 2022, we should not take long-term and strategic decisions. I want to tell you that here today we need to think about these measures, which are being proposed how they will affect the fiscal stability of the state, on the fiscal objectives that we are pursuing, in the medium-term objective that we are pursuing and which we must return to once the pandemic has passed. You should also bear in mind that every step we take, every single proposal, every amendment to the fiscal rules and fiscal objectives also affects the path we have taken towards the euro area. I wouldn't want us to block the road with our decisions, which I think we all agree on. I therefore call on you once again: let us vote on the adoption of the three budgets on measures which relate only to the socio-economic consequences of the CIVID-19 crisis. They should be of a short-term nature by the end of the year, without reducing everything we have provided so far. These are mostly our measures that we have proposed. Let us, if there are better, look at them, but in no case go beyond the update of the budget for 2021. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u92	Madam President, please allow me to make a brief line and then speak so that I do not take the floor twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u93	First line, then Mr. Ananiev may make you a duplicate and then a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u94	Dear colleagues from GERB, Mrs. Sacheva, Mr. Ananiev! Firstly, this is not the update of the budget 2021, is not the strategic change. It is necessary from your capacity to make a nice budget so that it reaches the end of the year and takes all the risks. That's a first. Secondly, I am very interested and I think that once the Finance Minister asked you this question: how will you give now 100 leva. To the pensioners, and then from January 1st you'll take them back? How's this gonna work?! Thirdly, honourable Members, for 12 years you were in power and had forgotten that there were pensioners in this country. [[Applause from IHN. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] You'd forgotten it! These people didn't get an update on their pensions for 12 years, did they? Not only are we the poorest country, not only do we have the lowest pensions, but on top of that they were forced to squalor. If you decide to apostrophe me that, you see, we're collecting a million and 40 thousand pensioners on a minimum pension, I want to remind you that you did this with that one million and 40 thousand pensioners that you collected in 300 BGN. It's a pension, isn't it? That's what you did! Besides, I'd also like to remind you that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u95	Your time, Mrs. Zaykova. In the statement you will remind them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u96	I just want to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the minimum pension will be equal to the poverty threshold is not our patent, nor Bulgarian, it is the idea of Eurostat and the European Commission. I'm gonna keep saying...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u97	Dear Mrs. Zaykova, a statement in a moment. Let Mr. Ananiev make you an asshole if he wants. For the second line please, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Ananiev, I fully understand your call for careful attitude not to have long-term measures, because we are still updating the budget, and we are not making a new budget with policies to be defined next year, and we are now focusing on three months. Mr. Ananiev, I will not forget your 12-year government in recent years, when you were a finance minister and when you were largely dependent on measures relating to pensions and pensioners. Can you tell me what the successive policies in the pension sphere of this government were? Every time I get on the stand, I will take you back in time during Borisov's first term when, in violation of the Bulgarian legislation, Finance Minister Djankov did not comply with art. 100 three years and did not update the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners with at least what is written in the Social Security Code. I will not go through so much because time does not allow it, but I will also remind you of this vandalism, which you have done under the influence of your coalition partner - United Patriarchs - then, to raise only and only the minimum pension of 300 BGN, after you swore during the election campaign that you will raise the pensions of all pensioners, you will recalculate them. Two approaches then could have raised all pensions by as much as you raise the minimum pension. What did you do then? Mrs. Zaykova said: you made more than half of the Bulgarian pensioners to take the minimum pension. Now you appeal not to do what you did, but once you go in that direction, there is no going back. The successive policies of GERB in this I do not see them. I'm sorry, but I don't see them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u99	Your time, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u100	Twelve years as if there were no pensioners in Bulgaria. I can go further, but I don't want to talk cynical about this tribune about what was the purpose and idea of your policy in the pension system. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u101	Thank you. Third line please, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u102	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The first interesting question, Mr. Ananiev, is that this 50 leva. for pensioners were provided for in the budget by the end of March. I expected from you April month to tell them to stop, but no one from GERB said such a thing because it was never intended for this money to stop. So this populism, Mr. Ananiev, does not suit you. Otherwise, your arguments for compliance with fiscal discipline somehow contradict other global trends in you, for example 8.7 billion. lv. For in house orders. Okay, so let's let this go and explain from this tribune how we should be fiscally disciplined, Mr. Ananiev, sorry, it doesn't sound appropriate to have allowed this thing. Besides, why is Romania's average pension 50% higher than Bulgaria's? Because they have achieved twice as much convergence against Bulgaria, twice as much growth in all these years, i.e. these 10 years, while you were in charge, they have twice as much growth as Bulgaria. This must be the goal, i.e. in order to have high pensions in Bulgaria and growth similar to Romanian, the economy needs to develop. Another thing. With this 100 BGN, excuse me, at the moment it is still elementary populism to give them the people for three months and take them away on January 1st. Isn't that what you're saying right now? [[GERB lines.]] That's what you say, that's what you say in practice. What is proposed by the government to have a claim is a fairer option. So if you hadn't ruled these last 10 years, someone would eventually have believed it. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u103	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u104	Dear Chairman, dear Mrs. Zaykova, Mr. Gokov, Mr. Dimitrov, honourable colleagues! To you first, Mrs. Zaykova. Perhaps you are not following the things that are happening in the Member States of the European Union when we gathered the finance ministers at the end of last year, rather September, when we did the Draft Budget for 2021, we all became convinced that we should anticipate the measures by the end of the winter period in the hope that the pandemic would pass. This is at stake not only in our budget, but also in all European budgets. Whether the current traces of the updates that have been made in the European Union or those that are about to be made because we are in contact with our fellow Members. All these countries are starting to update their budget, but only by the end of this year and not in the longer term. Why do I say that strategic decisions should not be made? First of all, you are right that only the change in the amount of pensions is not a complete social pension reform, there are many other elements. Mr. Minister knows what it means to make a pension reform in its entire form, with all the elements and components, but this is one of the important elements and components. Regarding this for 50 BGN, this was provided by us at a difficult time for all pensioners, no matter what amount of pension they receive, as the blows of the pandemic caused a lot of damage to all pensioners. Okay, I agree that 100 leva. You think this is a populist solution, we do not think so, because as of July, even as of May, there has been a serious increase in prices for a number of products, electricity, medicines and so on. We calculated that 100 leva. they'll be able to compensate for these things. But in the end, you have heard Mrs. Sacheva's proposal, which is also the proposal of our entire parliamentary group, we agree to keep what you propose. to all pensioners as horizontal aid by the end of the year. We want there to be a new government, we want there to be a regular government that will have its own programme. Pension policy will not be the only policy in this programme. Each of the public sectors has priorities that will be set in this budget for 2022 and in the three-year budget forecast. If we decide now and as the Finance Minister said: we will release money from the pandemic and next year we will face new challenges, i.e. the new government, but it is not exactly because we do not know when the pandemic will end and these costs can continue next year. If you ask him now and the health minister, they will not be able to answer you whether March next year will end the pandemic or whether by the summer of next year. It is therefore necessary to make an update of the budget, but on socio-economic and health measures. However, this update must be made on the basis of an in-depth analysis of the implementation of the budget and the expected implementation. I just want to say this: if you think there will be no regular government but will rule the caretaker government next year, you are very mistaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you are, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u106	I'm sorry, Mr. Ananiev, that it's you that I have to explain to you that I'm not making any pension reform. Please, there are two main elements in the formula for the formation of pensions of the current pension system. This is the ratio of average insurance income to the insurance income of the person. On the other side is the weight ratio of one year of service, which according to the pension reform in the years 2000 to grow, which in your case did not grow from 1.1 to 1.2 in 2018. We don't do anything like reform! We apply the current pension formula and the current pension system, only we apply it humanly, that is, we accelerate the growth of the burden of one year of service for the simple reason that at those years it should be 1.5, but now we will do it at 1.35, and only for real service. So I'm sorry, but no one's about to make any kind of reform right now. The reform is yet to come and not only in the first, and the second pillar is likely to have a reform. But what we do is we apply the current pension system properly. [[(Replying:..Search!) Time!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u107	Yes, you have five minutes! [[Reply of the People's Representative Kiril Ananiev: "Can you, because you mentioned my name? "]] You'll give her a line, Mr. Ananiev, please! Go ahead, you have five minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u108	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to our colleagues from the parliamentary groups of We are coming! ", to our colleagues from BSP and to our colleagues from DPS, with whom we held a constructive dialogue in the Committee on Budget and Finance because our colleagues from GERB left. And, thank God, they, although they had interesting suggestions, supported us, for which I thank them indefinitely. The second thing I want to say is that if you remember that today begins the census in Bulgaria. I don't believe any of you, ladies and gentlemen, that the demographic crisis is suddenly gone, which is actually a demographic disaster. And this is not only because young people leave Bulgaria because of the miserable life they lead here because of the lack of opportunity for development, but because mothers give birth to fewer and fewer children. Ladies and gentlemen, in this regard, I would like to ask you to reconsider. If you remember, the minimum wage in 2014 was 380 BGN. Is that right? The second year of pay of maternity we determined to be equal to the minimum wage then, in the distant 2014 year. In 2015 we suddenly decided that this figure remains, but it is no longer related to the minimum wage, which I think is deeply wrong. Because if we don't tie him to the minimum wage, we have to tie him to the alimony of life. If you divide 380 leva. on calendar days, you will see that per day is 12,60 BGN. What are you gonna do, watch the kid, watch yourself, watch what you do?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u109	Mrs. Rabbikova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u110	Yes, the mother in the second year should be encouraged to return to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u111	Mrs. Zaykova, please by § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u112	As long as the mayor of Sofia has provided nurseries and kindergartens. Is that right? That's right! [[(Reply of National Representative Desislava Atanasova: Come on, it's against any rules!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u113	Mrs. Zaykova, please by §1!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u114	So I'm asking you to consider once again whether these 380 leva. They have to stay for the second year! [[Applause from IHN and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. For lines? Mr. Ananiev, you wanted a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u116	Mrs. Zaykova, we do not object to moving towards the increase in the amount of pensions through the increase of the coefficient, only we believe that this should be the work of the new regular cabinet, which has its programme and its vision for the further development of the reform. They can also offer a higher percentage of.1.4, they can go to 1.5, as long as this enters into their programme and the financial balances they will make. To Mr. Dimitrov, however, I would like to say that it is precisely for our government that the doubt... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u117	The line belongs to Mrs. Zaykova, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u118	...in financial discipline is not true at all. We are one of the three countries with the lowest deficit and the lowest debt, which honors the Bulgarian government, which in many years was at the head of these stable fiscal indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. For a second line? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u120	Mrs. Zaykova, in addition to what you said, I would like to draw attention to the whole National Assembly on the fact that between 35,000 and 60,000 people disappear from Bulgaria per year. In the last 10 years, 600,000 people have disappeared from the state. This is more than half a million people in 10 years, that is, you are right: there is a demographic disaster and since the budget update cannot be devoid of priorities, not to put as a priority the mothers, their children and dealing with the demographic problem through the budget would mean absolutely thick and thick. I therefore fully support you and I am pleased that there is a proposal on this text that we can accept, and ultimately this stimulus, this gesture to mothers of children between one and two years to cost 25 million. lv. For a budget that is over 1 billion. lv. 15 billion, that's nothing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u121	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. For a third line? I can't see. Mrs. Zaykova, would you like the floor for the duplicate to answer to Mr. Delchev and Mr. Ananiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u122	Mr. Ananiev, if you remember, at the end of my speech I said something very important. It is good for young people to return to work and I have to tell you that according to statistics in 2017. I have had statistics since then, about 10,000 mothers have returned even before the first year ended because they want to develop. I'm about young people developing, only these kids need someone to look after them. The Kovid wiped out the grandmothers, didn't he, because a lot of people are gone from this world. You can't always rely on a healthy grandmother or a long-time girl like me who has the power to babysit. So first, the state and, more precisely, the local authorities must take care of nurseries, kindergartens, conditions for these children to be kept, and for them to be kept in the 21st century, and then to send mothers to work. I agree with you that motherhood is really long, but there is nothing better for a child his mother to hold him for up to two years. Nothing better! [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria: Bravo!) Bravo! (Applause from IHN and BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u124	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Minister, honourable Members of the National Insurance Institute! I begin by saying that we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are satisfied with the fact that in the 46th National Assembly there is the will to change the amount of pensions that have been allocated to date. However, I would like to emphasise that, regardless of all proposals, regardless of what will be adopted as a final option to amend the state social security budget under the current State Social Security Budget Act for 2021, including the update of 1 July under the Swiss rule, the money by the end of the year for all pensioners is guaranteed by the current budget. So whoever claims that by the end of the year there's no money for pensions doesn't speak the truth. There is no money for additional support for pensioners in Bulgaria if the budget is not updated. This is the factual environment around which there should be no speculation whatsoever. Next, I would like to make a kind of analysis of the proposals of the Council of Ministers, of proposals of the parliamentary groups and of what as a final option the colleagues of the Budget Committee propose. You know what the Council of Ministers has to offer. The Council of Ministers, the office, proposes an increase in the coefficient for a year of service.. 1.35, an increase in the minimum, maximum pension respectively, and an increase in the social pension for old age. This, at first glance, is a balanced approach. The only problem is that this project of the Council of Ministers creates additional imbalances, as is the proposal of the Budget Committee, which I will talk about shortly. Why? Because the minimum pension for internship and age increases on the proposal of the Council of Ministers by 13.3%, and the maximum pension for example is increased by 4%. This is one of the imbalances that can demotivate those who start their insurance path. Next, I repeat, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we will support all the proposals I am talking about sensible proposals that have been made to increase the amount of pensions. But when we get to the individual proposals, different colleagues offer an increase of 50 BGN, with 70 BGN, recalculation of pensions. We offer 120 leva. Why we believe that by the end of the year it is the most reasonable option to support pensioners with the amount that the National Assembly will accept if it will be 50, 70, 100 or 120 BGN.? Why? Look, Mr. Ananiev just said that this is horizontal support. In other words, according to the people, aiding a rascal. Why is this the universal approach and why is it the most appropriate one? Because everyone, regardless of their income, has suffered the same damage from the horse crisis. This is the argument for universal support. No one is saying that what the Council of Ministers is proposing is some kind of change! It is not parametric, it is not a complete change in the model of pension insurance, only what the Council of Ministers proposes obliges the next budget to be adopted. It must be imported by the end of October under the Public Finance Act. Next, what the Committee on Budget and Finance is now proposing. Dear colleagues, no one is opposed to increasing the minimum pension for retirement and age, but the minimum pension for retirement and age in the proposal of the Council of Ministers is increased by 23.3%, and the social pension for old age, namely non-employment pensions, is increased by 14.3%. It is no coincidence that Mrs. Manolova tried to make a proposal earlier, but there the difference is that disability pensions for sickness, I will quote them precisely: disability pensions due to general illness, occupational accident and occupational disease are defined as a percentage of the minimum pension for retirement and age, that is, they will grow depending on the growth of the minimum pension for internship and age. But for example, this pension that Mrs. Manolova is talking about is probably the so-called social disability pension. These are people who are over 16 years old with a percentage of loss of performance, type and degree of damage over 70%. Do you understand what this is about? Their pension is defined as a percentage of the social pension and the social pension on the proposal of the Council of Ministers is BGN 170. So who claims that after the adoption of the version of the Council of Ministers this is the Minister of Finance, to say it one to one that there will be no pensioner under the line of poverty, it is not true. Because these pensions, which we are talking about just now, unrelated to work, the majority of them will be difficult to reach the poverty line. That is, this commitment that all pensions must be below the poverty line is unfaithful. I'm done with this. Colleagues, let's choose the model of pension insurance, because what you said again is quoted by the Minister of Finance, what will happen to these 100, 120 or 150 BGN. After New Year's? Well, what happened to the Council of Ministers' proposal is that they should somehow get into next year's budget. I hope the National Assembly will accept the best option for Bulgarian pensioners. We at the DPS will support all reasonable proposals to increase the amount of pensions. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. For a line, Mrs. Manolova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u126	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ademov, you are right that at the moment there is just an update of pensions in relation to the damage of a horse, but not the recalculation, which will really and globally change the way pensions are being paid, as well as the disproportion between those received by 2008, and those that are being obtained now. In fact, the average insurance income for 2008 is 398 BGN and for 2020 it is 1111 BGN, i.e. this shows how difficult the imbalance is at the moment that does not change this proposal. It's about the most vulnerable, it's about people who get a social disability pension. These are children with disabilities who, turning 18 years old, stop having support from the state at the amount of BGN 930. By becoming 19 years old, they remain with BGN 148, which with the increase of social pension for poverty is BGN 187. We have proposed it in the state budget and our insistence is to raise the percentage that will be received by people who are on a social pension for disability. However, changes must be made to the revenue and expenditure part of the budget for state social security. The serious solution would be to raise social pension for poverty and instead of 170 BGN. Make it 200 BGN, then automatically for people with disabilities who receive social pension for disability, and for others who are tied to social pension for poverty allowances will rise. The question is: is there such opportunities in the budget, according to the budget, because then it should be added for the next three months 9 million. lv. for those who will receive this pension, and so much for all those associated with this pension, allowances. Each of us has made our offer, and we're offering a plus 400 million. lv., as 50 leva. It's for the pensioners, for motherhood and so on. But here we have to unite whether we add plus four million so that people with disabilities are not harmed, or we add plus nine million to these four, so that people who receive social pensions for poverty are not harmed and their pension for poverty becomes 200 BGN. That's what this room needs to decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there any other lines? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I couldn't really understand exactly what the line was. What I wanted to say is that disability pension due to occupational accident and occupational sickness, disability pension due to general illness is defined as a percentage of the minimum retirement and age pension. What you're proposing is a change in the disability pension. You were talking about the disability pension. I said that social disability pension is defined as a percentage of social retirement pension for old age. If there is the will to increase the amount of minimum retirement pension for old age, then this issue can be resolved very easily. If the minimum pension is increased, there is no way to increase only the social pension for old age, because in this group there are non-employment pensions and there are pensions for military disability, there are pensions for civil invalidity, there are personal pensions, there are pensions for special merit. This is a large group and they are about sixty-several thousand pensioners, that is, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and colleagues from the Budget Committee should say what the effect is. I don't mind this size being increased because people who receive social disability are the most vulnerable groups. These are people with lost capacity over 70%, so there is none of this Chamber that does not want them to be helped. Moreover, if they are not supported, then there is a conflict between the group of disability pensions due to general illness, occupational accident, occupational sickness with social pensions. We can overcome this difference, we must support this proposal, of course, within the framework of the conciliation actions that need to be carried out in order to accept this.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u130	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Today's debate is important regarding the viewed IDE for amending and supplementing the State Budget Act, in particular the State Social Security Act. Unfortunately, however, today we do not see in the Chamber the Minister of Finance. Mr. Vassilev, because the proposed update at least changes the really radical policy, however many vows to be heard from the Chamber there were speeches in this direction that did not change the pension system in Bulgaria. The fact is, fellow Members, is changing in a direction where the House has different views, which is normal. There is also one major problem and Mr. Vassilev's absence was a bit strange for me. From the pre-speakers broke the thesis of the office, and it was widely proclaimed by Mr. Vassilev the Minister of Finance that, if you see, there will be no money for the pensioners if we do not do it in this Parliament, for which we have seen that there is no possibility to form a majority and to broadcast a government was bent hands, forced to accept and consider the budgets proposed to us. The first lie, as I told Mr. Vassilev, was broken into pieces: there are funds for pensioners by the end of the year, provided for the increase from July 1st, which we had seen last year, and to pay to the Bulgarian pensioners their already increased pensions. From another point of view, the myth was also broken into pieces and dust that 50 leva. have only been provided for the first three months. As we have seen without update, without revision of the budget, Bulgarian pensioners receive 50 BGN. during the crisis, I would like to emphasise, as has been foreseen. Now back to basics. With the change of the pension model, colleagues, mostly the transfer from the state budget to the revenue part of the state social security. Let's put it simply: the funding for the Bulgarian pensioners and the funds allocated to their pensions, not by the workers and through deductions of pension contributions, but by other taxes. That is why I will explain it to our colleagues, especially those on the right side of the House, who will have quite serious problems, in my opinion, in their meetings with voters, because we are in a campaign, colleagues. I regret that you have fallen into the trap of those who are in the campaign before it is seen that the current Parliament will not form a majority for a government, and this is the presidential institution, you have entered the trap and history is repeated. 2008 was the adoption of the budget by a triple coalition and then made an update of the pensioners' funds, which still did not follow the logic of the income from the insurance contributions of working citizens, and it happened that someone else had to implement this policy and do the work promised by someone before that. To go back to the right-thinking people, to the workers, because this concerns, in addition to the Bulgarian pensioners, with all due respect to them and worthy old age, we have always followed the logic when we look at the 44th National Assembly for the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners, to be able to raise the minimum pension, to recalculate pensions with the resources of the budget and we have never exceeded the opportunities of the economy and what is provided for the Bulgarian citizens. If you remember, five years ago, the minimum pension was BGN 150. and at the end of the mandate of the government of Borisov 3 was 300 BGN. I think that this logic, which was respected, was more correct for the fiscal stability and discipline of the Bulgarian state. Once again, I would like to stress for my colleagues on the right side of the House: now, by voting so clearly with the caretaker government and with Radev an update of the budget, however I wish this calculation would be real and these billions, colleagues, will have to come from a transfer from the other budget, and the other budget is filled through direct and indirect taxes. Just to tell you that now you have to explain to the working Bulgarian citizens and with my greatest respect for them, because they move the economy of Bulgaria and all social payments are thanks to them and the business including, you have to explain to them that you will have to, in the next government, whatever it is, by voting in this way, to oblige them in one form or another to provide these funds, and the most unpopular measure, colleagues, unfortunately, is the lifting of taxes. There is another unpopular measure and it is the withdrawal of government debt, so I warn you that today, by voting in this way, and not for GERB's proposal, which is calculated only for support in the context of the crisis, I think in this form is the best option, and you do not support it. Supporting these populists...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u131	Your time, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u132	I'm coming, Madam President. ...with these populist increases at the moment and without estimates, and with these billions in the coming years, you are bringing the country into a financial instability, but I hope I'm not right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For lines? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u134	If we understand you correctly, Mr. Ivanov, the parliamentary group of GERB believes that the update of the budget proposed by the caretaker government, which is voted in plenary, will cause turmoil in the budget of state social security and is excessive for the possibilities of the national budget. Is this how you understand that you shouldn't make this update because the pensioners have their pensions enough? [[noise and lines]] , a supplement of 50 or 70 leva. Will the state fail because billions will be spent?! Sorry, you probably didn't look at the numbers. In fact, this update will cost plus 50 million. BGN, if we consider the allowance of 50 BGN, which people get anyway. At the same time, it appears from the analyses of the advance money distributed that, for the first months of this calendar year, the illegal In House contracts were worth 3 billion. 100 million. BGN, and the translated advances are worth 1 billion. And 800 million. lv. So we can have a billion. And 800 million. lv. to be transferred in advance, including under contracts which appear to be illegal, and for pensioners plus 150 million. lv. By the end of this year are the billing expenses for the state budget?! Extraordinary, unstoppable, impossible?! Are you serious?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Do you seriously think that these 12.5% benefits to pensions are the one thing the state will go bankrupt from?! Do you really think so? In fact, the real recalculation should happen from January 1st, and we expect that the office will prepare it so that the pensioners really get some support, and at the moment they are really miserable, Mrs. Zaykova is right...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova, your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u136	...live in misery for the last few years.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u137	Mrs. Zaykova, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u138	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! First of all, colleague, this isn't the finance minister because this is the deputy prime minister. Secondly, no one changes the pension model. Thirdly, what we offer is worth 56 million, and what you offer is 244 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u139	Two hundred and twelve.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u140	Who spends more money? And thirdly, don't speculate, because the DEO budget has always been in deficit. Every year, this deficit has been growing for you too, hasn't decreased, I'm sorry. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. [[Reply from MP Kiril Ananiev.]] Mrs. Zaykova, Mr. Ananiev, you can work it out outside the Chamber! Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since there were millions and billions of people here, some figures, I'm going to try to do the correct reading of what's being offered. Dear colleagues, in the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021, the transfer from the state budget to the DVO budget, or the so-called deficit, to call it, according to Mr. Ivanov, is 6 billion. 151 million. 411 thousand. 900. What is currently being proposed on the proposal of the Budget Committee increases the transfer by 173 million 600 thousand. One hundred and seventy-three million and six hundred thousand is increasing the transfer! Make the reference between the numbers and you'll get this number. Next, what the Budget Commission proposes, in addition to the costs that it has under the Law on the Budget for 2021, is an additional monthly amount of 151 million 800 thousand. One hundred and fifty-one million and eight hundred thousand dollars a month is offered in order to implement these policies, which the office offers and respectively the Budget Commission for second reading! These are the correct numbers. As for whether this update should change the model of pension insurance in general, my view is no, there is no way that this will happen. As to whether Bulgarian pensioners should be supported? Everyone in this National Assembly, and we of the DPS, agree that the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners in connection with the Kovid crisis will be increased by the end of the year. And what will happen after the New Year is whether the parameters will change, whether these numbers will change is subject to the new State Social Security Budget Act for 2022. I am finishing what the office is proposing is that the next cabinet will find nearly a billion and six hundred million of new revenue, from inflation, from increasing parameters, this is the next cabinet's problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mr. Ivanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u144	Dear Madam President, honourable Members replicating! Mrs. Manolova, I apologize, but clearly you haven't listened to my speech. It's normal in the crack of your decaying formation that you haven't been able to hear what I've said from the stands, but you and I can comment on it later. But the proposals here have indeed been hinted by the other replicators, with the greatest respect for them, have nothing to do with it! The parliamentary group of GERB, of course, is for the support of the pensioners. I once again stressed that during the management of GERB the increase in wages, for pensioners has happened several times and so many times back in time there is nothing to talk about, but in the last week of this National Assembly, prompted by a government which has no responsibility at all, you are simply a hostage to these proposals. Not that we do not have any, we have our proposals, as we can see they are of greater value, for a greater addition to the Bulgarian pensioners, but we simply do not make a commitment because the caretaker government does not make a commitment to the implementation, as Dr. Ademov told you, with the greatest respect for the next implementation of the budgets in the future of the Republic of Bulgaria. So, again, from the whole statement, colleagues on the right to explain to their voters that the next government, whatever it is, unfortunately, may have to raise the maximum social security threshold or find other taxes in which to collect those over 2 billion, which will be minimally necessary for next year's budget. And again, without updating what you, as a pensioner, Mrs. Zaykova, very well know happens from July 1st every year with at least an average of 5%, which we have always done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u146	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I listened carefully to the last speeches. I would like to draw your attention to the following question. What does it mean when, in the current situation, a parliamentary group says: we will not support and there is no need to update the budget, because that is what colleagues from GERB say, what does that mean? In simple words, this means the following thing: no more giving anything extra to pensioners, because the cost ceilings are reached. Everything else is basic demagogy! This is what you say: nothing more to be given to them, and demagogy goes on, because you offer 100 BGN, but you do not want an update of the budget. So how do you guys do it?! It's basic demagogy. It doesn't work that way, Mr. Ananiev, it doesn't work that way. I mean, when you said you didn't want a budget update, I didn't want you to give anything above the ceiling, and you reached it. Now there were some questions here for the right-wing to the Democratic Bulgaria, because there are no other right-wing ones, you know?! [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] So there were some questions to the right and let me tell you about the right issues. When you're worried and you don't want to raise your taxes, colleagues, you collect that $700 million first. lv. gambling. Yeah, that's the kind of thing you do so you don't raise taxes, and you don't act crazy, you don't sleep through it, and you don't act like you didn't get it at the end. Next thing you know, if you don't want to raise your taxes, you're taking that $1 billion. You don't pretend to be crazy, you don't close your eyes, you don't sleep it off. So these are the measures not to increase taxes. Otherwise, why is it important for pensioners not to be handouts, not to be given by the SUV, but to be regulated, not to be stopped and given? You want to be stopped and given when someone decides when you call someone from somewhere. We want them to be legally established, that's the difference between us. You want to give them and stop when you want, pensioners to depend on your goodwill, whether you are satisfied or dissatisfied during this period. This proposal at the moment, firstly, increases all pensions and not, as someone proposes, only 56% of pensions; increases the minimum and maximum pension, the result is for everyone. And as much as a colleague here explained just now, it was worth $2 billion. lv. No, it's not worth $2 billion. lv. For next year it will cost 1 billion 650 million and if the state starts collecting its money, fulfilling its obligations, the tax authorities will monitor the performance of the revenues of the big companies, Mr. Ananiev, to deal with them and not with the sellers in the market...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u147	And the hairdressers!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u148	...and with the hairdressers, yes, but also the salesgirls in the market, I add, Mr. Ananiev, you will see how there is money and how the economy can grow faster. So much for this demagogy, guys. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u149	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Right Politician Martin Dimitrov [[Laughter from GERB-SDS and DPS]] , what is this right-wing measure that you propose in the revenue section of the state social security budget to seek money of the kind of gambling?? I don't mind looking for them, the seven hundred million, of the gas where you talk about a billion, of those who will give them away? Don't you understand as a right-wing politician that the revenues in the state social security budget should be re-gu-lar-ni because every month the pension must be paid? If there's money from gambling this month, there's money from the gas or whatever you say there, if it's not there next year, where are we gonna look for it, Mr. Dimitrov? If the Sultan of Brunei, excuse me, nor do I know him, nor do I want to mention him, but you force me to say it here in the Bulgarian Parliament: I want to increase, I love many Bulgarian pensioners, I want to double the amount of 15 billion to the Bulgarian pensioners! Do you understand that difference? You propose that in the revenue section of the IPO budget the money should come from taxes or some random revenue. The only thing that we have proposed from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms must have more insured, there must be growth in gross domestic product in order for money to come along the line of insurance, not to burden the other social systems with those costs that we give them as a transfer to the budget of state social security. If you understand that, I will personally congratulate you from this tribune that you are a right-wing politician. You're in some kind of spread position right now. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u152	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! It is a little strange when my questions were addressed to GERB and we get answers from DPS, but everything has its explanation in this life. [[Applause from DB.]] But notice, notice, the DPS offers 120 leva. a supplement of pensioners, which is twice the proposal that we support, and say: but these 120 leva. It's not a problem, even if it's twice that, that's 65 leva. increase, they're the problem. That's what they say. And GERB is something like that. GERB says: 100 BGN When we raise the money for the pensioners, it's okay then, but when it's 65 BGN, there are problems. We need to block the budget cuts, colleagues, you're right here, and I agree with you. You can't give away the cold reserve like this, you can't keep doing this, you can't keep doing it like this, it can't be an endless balancing and it can appear after the cold reserve. Russian-Turkish flows cannot be built at such prices. There cannot be such huge expenditures in the budget every year. And when the economy starts to grow by 7.8%, and pensions will be able to grow by a high percentage, that's the whole point. You've achieved it all over Europe, sorry, without Bulgaria. Look at the results of the Baltic countries, look at the pensions there. See Romania's results, see Romania's pensions. That's our goal. Yes, and right-wing policy leads to a high growth in the economy and a blockage of budget cuts. Yeah, that's our target. And when you come from this tribune you say: it is a very big risk to increase pensions by 65 BGN, we therefore offer 120 that says DPS and GERB say: very big risk are 65 BGN, so we offer 100 BGN. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] Colleagues, if this demagogy has ever taken Decish, realize that there are whole industries of large companies for which control is not what it should be because they are close to power and therefore the necessary taxes are not collected. People realized that if rules were made, there would be money for the pension. So this elementary populism is left, is it right, is it DPS, is it GERB, is it not understood, does not work. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u153	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any other speeches? Mr. Chobanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, in this discussion, as well as in the discussion in the Budget Committee, as well as in the preparatory meeting of the Budget Committee, because we had to prepare ministers what to explain due to the fact that there was no analyticity in the materials they had provided us, I asked the question several times, and I continue to ask it with the agreement, of course, as we said and stressed that the DPS is not against the update, the DPS will vote so that the Bulgarian pensioners will receive more funds, as the situation is difficult, so there is no way to be accused of this. The question that I have asked and which I am still not getting an answer to is: this option, which we are probably going to adopt after all and which really represents a long-term policy, and neither is the time nor the place to do it now, what is its impact on the long-term sustainability of public finances? These are elementary indicators that the European Commission requires of us. And then, when we make such changes, we are obliged to inform the European Commission in a timely manner what the impact of these changes will be on the specific indicators. That is to say, if we are strict and implementing European rules, if we adopt this proposal, we must immediately send an amending version of the convergence programme, in which we clearly point out these changes that we are making......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what's required. Yes, and under the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, and as we said, if we are strict to European rules, this information must be sent. Unfortunately, this information does not exist at the moment, is not prepared and I do not know whether there is a willingness to send it at all, which will bring us into violation of these rules, but because Europe is in such a period, perhaps we hope that these rules do not apply. On the contrary, it also applies in the next report on the long-term sustainability of public finances, this information we want or do not want will be reflected. Therefore, our proposal is not populist, it is in line with everything I have said, it does not have additional effects on the long-term sustainability of public finances and should therefore be supported. Another thing, when we adopted in the Budget Committee what we will probably vote here today and will support, the reaction from the media and from the people was: the supplement of 50 leva was canceled. for the pensioners and increased the minimum pension. Period! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. For lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Mrs. Manolova made an offer. Do you have it already written, Mrs. Manolova? Let us vote first on the unsupported proposals and then we will vote on the proposal made in this House by Mrs Manolova. I put to the vote the proposal of Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 196 MPs: 49, against 95, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 75, against 88, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u156	Madam President, I propose a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u157	Thank you. I am re-voting the proposal made by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Vote 206 MPs: for 104, against 91, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from DPS.]] We move on to the next proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Karimansky, would you like to make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u158	I suggest... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u159	Please cancel the vote. Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u160	I'm making a procedural offer for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u161	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group there is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u163	I suggest a 15-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u164	Colleagues, we are continuing with Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote on Cornelia Ninova's proposal. They voted 173 MPs: 46 against 68, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. Proposal by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote on the proposal. They voted 201 MPs: for 102, against 97, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u165	I propose a re-vote because some of the MPs couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u166	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Revoting Dessislava Atanasova's proposal and a group of MPs. [[Applause.]] Vote 216 MPs: 110 against 105, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u167	Thank you, Madam President. It is clear that the BSP coalition, GERB-SDS and DPS want to blow up the budget. [[Loud applause, screaming.]] Because they don't intend to rule at all after 1 January.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u168	What's the procedure, Mrs. Capon?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u169	My procedure is to end the meeting, Madam President, so that the Commission can enter and find the best solution in the texts thus voted. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u170	Thank you. A counteroffer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u171	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a reverse proposal because you, Madam President, have scheduled an extraordinary plenary session, we are taking part in it, we are considering an important update of the State Social Security Act for all Bulgarians, respectively, of the National Health Insurance Fund. In addition, there is no procedure in the middle of a second vote in plenary to hold extraordinary meetings of the Budget Committee, Mrs Capon, if you do not know. Therefore, Madam President, I ask that the sitting continue as agreed on the agenda and continue the discussion on the paragraphs of the Budget and Finance Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I put to the vote the proposal made by Maria Kapon to terminate the National Assembly meeting. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I do not really understand, honourable Members, how you can allow this procedure for a vote to end a meeting called by you, at your request, today to adopt these bills - important for the Bulgarian citizens. All Bulgaria is now standing and watching whether we will adopt the two bills and will we update the budget on Friday? Colleagues, let's stop with the hypocrisy. Do you remember the 45th Assembly once again voting to update pensions? [[Applause and lines]] First vote, all for and the second procedure for termination of the sitting. [[Heckling]] My procedure is in the manner of conduct, Mr. Karimansky, not to allow the termination procedure. To vote the budget because both Bulgarian pensioners and Bulgarian doctors, so Bulgarian border guards, so Bulgarian police, so Bulgarian citizens are waiting, waiting for all of us to update the budget, not to go home and to the offices, to the offices, to gather together and negotiate majorities. So I suggest, Madam President, that you do not allow a vote to end the meeting. There is neither disorder in the hall nor noise in the hall. Everything is quiet, there are MPs and we can continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u174	Mr. Svilensky, on the grounds of art. 57 at the request of a parliamentary group, the National Assembly may terminate its meeting by decision. Such an offer has been made by Mrs. Capon. [[Heckling]] So I have to put it to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! Let's calm down a little bit. There is no need to look into the Rules of Procedure and look for grounds for termination of the sitting, because nothing dramatic is happening. There's no budget bombing. This is from a man who's been involved in all budgets for the last 30 years. There are some proposals that are absolutely reasonable and based on the implementation of the contributions to the DEA, on which we have 230 million more only for the first half of the year, as a result of the measures under the Code, as a result of 60/40 and others, the growth of the economy, which the caretaker government boasts that it was 9.6% of what base we are starting from and so on, it doesn't matter, no one is talking about it, but let's assume that it is. As a result of these things, an even higher payment is expected. The measure is not long-term. The measure does not oblige the following governments, as the odds, to seek 2 billion in each subsequent year for pensions. The measure is until the end of the year. The money for 100 or 120 leva. More to the pensioners have them than over-execution of the contributions. [[Applause from the DPS, BSP for Bulgaria and GERB-SDS.]] There's no need to call the chairman's councils, to make noise and panic. I understand that experience is technology in politics. It's not a plus. Trust us. We're not gonna let the budget blow up. What we're proposing has it as revenue.. as an opportunity for revenue. The most important is not long-term spending. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u176	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u177	In order to keep everything accurate, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group there is such a people, we propose that the meeting be suspended. Secondly, there is a majority of BSP, GERB, DPS in this House. Thirdly, if you want, we can call an emergency meeting and accept a cabinet that I hope tonight at 5:00 P.M., BSP, headed by Cornelia Ninova, to propose. [[(Applause from IHN and chanting:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u178	Reverse procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u179	Madam President, the existence of the 46th Parliament is becoming more and more pathetic. The government has introduced a state budget update. Here the three parties in two weeks less, I apologize, make proposals for this state budget, for this update. We somehow get the impression that they are the bearers of this change, which support the update submitted by the Council of Ministers. Did you colleagues just find out that you don't have a majority? What do you expect? We as a parliamentary group not to support our own proposals? Is that what you expect? [[Heckling]] It doesn't matter. First, as Toma Bikov said the other day, first you think, then you act. Isn't that right? And what did you do? You bring in some suggestions, then you yell: whatever the House decides. But that's not how it works. This is not the case in plenary and Parliament. You have to have a majority secured. That is why we have told you, colleagues, that this is a gross mistake to make an update of the state budget of such a fragmented parliament and of a caretaker government. It's a good thing the Minister of Finance is still pleased to come. My procedure, Madam President, is not to put you again in an awkward position, as last week and to put to the vote the humiliating procedure for ending the meeting during the second reading of the State Social Security Act and the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u180	Here you are, Mr. Vassilev. You wanted the floor. [[Heckling]] Mr. Vasilev wanted the word first. He's got a right to want her anytime.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u181	Hello, colleagues, if I may address you so. [[noise and lines]] I have two lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement. The first line is that how many additional contributions can be collected by the end of the year is based on the estimates of the NRA, Customs Agency, NSI and all the other revenue agencies that we have proposed to you. If the National Assembly decides to make up incomes that do not exist and to start handing them out, it must assume the responsibility that it makes up revenue that does not exist and goes to hand them out. It must be absolutely clear whether or not these revenues are available. [[Noise and lines.]] If this revenue is gone, it's tantamount to blowing up the budget if we come up with the revenue. The second thing I want to do as a line is to this responsibility that we talked about. She's really with you, and we've just seen this responsibility of exercising. We've made an offer that's supported. [[noise and lines]] The budget committee has been reasonable enough, examined the proposals, applied the adjustments that are needed using a calculator so that the revenues are equal to the costs. What is happening here is that there are proposals for revenue that do not exist, respectively, to make expenditures against revenue that do not exist, which I would like to point out, fell into the Budget Commission, where experts have pronounced that these revenues do not exist. Accordingly, no costs can be incurred against them. [[Noise and lines.]] My question to everyone in this House "Your experts were present in the Budget Committee and voted. My question to you is: why don't you listen to your own experts? Why don't you listen to your own experts?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The budget law is a complex matter and it must be resolved by people who know what they are doing. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] My advice is to start listening to the experts who examined the proposals in the Budget Committee and, accordingly, made expert on them. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u182	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u184	Mrs. Manolova, you have two minutes. Mrs. Manolova, what do you have to answer to the Minister or for a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u185	I have the right to be treated as you have addressed me!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u186	They have the right to be treated with the Minister two minutes under the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u187	I'm sorry, Mrs. Manolova, but this procedure has to be before your procedure, so, nothing else. Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, that's right, the experts will pronounce themselves, not the bodybuilder. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] In this room there are experts in budgeting with 30 years of experience. Mr. Ananiev looks at me and I remember the year we started making budgets together...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u188	You've always been together!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u189	And we will be. If you can't do something, we'll do it! Don't you see that? [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] By not being able to broadcast two parliaments in a row by fighting in the chest that you are parties of the protest, of change and of that, and you will drive the Bulgarian people for the third time in elections within six months, well, yes, we will be engaged to the parties of the status quo, that is exactly what we will do! That's exactly what we're gonna do! [[People from IHN stand up, applaud and chant: "You are engaged! "]] Yeah, that's right. Don't let my time run out. And if you think that we care that you will be glad that we don't care anymore because we care about whether Bulgaria has a cabinet, we care about whether the plan for recovery and sustainability will be introduced, we care about how the Bulgarian business will move and what money people will have in the face of this severe crisis! And to you, Minister, to answer: a mistake is the whole planning for the revenue section, but since I only have two minutes, there is no way to prove it. If you'd like to come in, we'll prove it to you with an expert sense of responsibility! Do you understand me? Expert, with a sense of responsibility! The revenue is such a part is not 800 million VAT: did you look in the ceiling when you thought it was 800 million? Well, why not a billion? Why should excises be increased by zero if there is growth in the economy when there is...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u190	Your time, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u191	...acquired consumption? It's one minute, how...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u192	There was another one before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u193	It passed, but they clapped...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u194	You pulled your card.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u195	It's a mine for you. It's not over for me. [[Laughter]] So, Mr. Minister, expert and with a sense of responsibility. The proposals we are making today, which we will make tomorrow and the day after for the budget, will respond to financial stability and will respond to the President's call to provide sufficient funds for people and businesses in times of crisis! By the way, this is also in your interest, because you will face the strike in the next three months, so take it easy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u196	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Does another parliamentary group want to take advantage of their right to two minutes? Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u197	Madam President, dear Minister! You're just beginning to understand what we told you last week. You are updating the budget within the framework of an election campaign, and in a parliament that does not have a majority, there is no telling at all who is in majority and who is in minority. And now you're all starting to wonder what's going on. I'll tell you what's going on. You're going 150 kilometers against a wall and you have another 10 meters to bump into it. There's no way you can stop the car. You just had to organize last week and pό last week talks between the different parliamentary groups and some coordination to take place. You didn't do that, including the Minister of Finance, including MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u198	That's not true! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u199	You didn't! Why do we have this result now? [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] This parliament, which is failed for reasons that become clear every day, will very difficult to make an update! So...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u200	That's not true! [[Strong noise and lines from ISN and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u201	Mr. Karimansky, please! Mr. Karimansky, take your seat!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u202	I see the result. The result is that you go out here and say: Why are you supporting your proposal now? Because it's ours! What do you expect us to do about not supporting him? We have the right to proposals and we have the right to support them! Maybe you don't like it, but we don't care, we just don't care, we just don't care about your dramas! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] When you say from this tribune that we are a mafia structure, you can't expect support from us and you won't get it! You will not receive support from the Bulgarian voters in two months! You'll see him! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u203	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! Incomprehensible are these emotions with which we just need to find the best solution for Bulgarian pensioners at the moment. You say: "Listen to your experts. " Our experts asked for the benefit of all pensions. Alas, this proposal was not supported. The motivations to want it and the motivations to fight systematically, as in the past parliaments, for raising the incomes of adults at the moment are more than ever, the increase in the prices of steam, gas, electricity, and it with two-digit rates, requires that we also increase the incomes of older people who are on the verge of survival, or at least one large part of them. Once our proposal has been supported, we support other proposals in the direction of increasing the incomes of the elderly, without fearing who you will package us with this or that, because when we return to our mothers and fathers, to the elderly, to our voters, to the people who look at us and have sent us here with hope, we must give a clear answer: what have we done to increase their income? And it's shameful, unacceptable, as in the past, a meeting with procedural grasps, election arguments and attacks who was with whom and what coalition did, once again leaving the elderly without income in this difficult situation. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u205	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Karimansky on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u206	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Now do you understand why the engagement of GERB and DPS best man are BSP? [[Applause from IHN.]] Because the best man from BSP, who are, made their representatives in the Committee on Budget and Finance, who voted a completely different proposal, turned 360 degrees today and voted otherwise! That's absolute hypocrisy, first of all. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Second of all, I mean... Okay, okay, 180 if you want, only you turn 360, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u207	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u208	Secondly, I'd like to address the pensioners. Dear pensioners who watch all this circus and indecent behavior by the left-wings in the hall [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] I want to turn to you that you will probably get those 120 leva. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u209	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u210	...but instead your children, your grandchildren and all the others will have to pay the debt of Bulgaria, which will be increased through the deficit! This will happen and I warn that the children will run away from Bulgaria as the country's deficit increases! Thank you. [[(Voices by GERB-SDS: ……]] [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u211	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. From a band? There are no other willing ones. Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u212	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u213	I've already given Mrs. Manolova the floor for procedure and then in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u214	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Why is a meeting of the Budget Committee needed? Everyone in this room wants the pensions of the elderly to be increased by at least 120 leva. We want to, but the promiscuous vote, including the Left, for all proposals, makes this impossible and I say why. Two mutually exclusive proposals have just been adopted. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] According to one proposal, the revenue side of the budget is increasing by 200 million, according to the DPS proposal. lv. This is how much the cost of the DCI's budget is increased. GERB's proposal was soon voted on, which says the revenue portion of the IPO budget is increasing by 245 million and the expenditure part is also increasing by 245 million. lv. Well, well, how does a budget run with a difference of 45 million in the numbers income and expense?! How do you do it?! You want to finally make sure that there is absolutely no increase for the pensioners! Therefore, let the Budget Committee make the estimates, support all this proposal for 120 BGN. plus, but so that it happens. Otherwise, you really blow up the budget by voting for mutually exclusive proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u216	This requires the termination and recovery of the Commission. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u218	Otherwise, we're for plus 120 leva. And plus £650. motherhood, plus recalculation based on insurance income...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u220	Yeah, we're in!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u221	Mr. Ivanov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u222	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Madam President, take the role of President, moreover, that you are currently a representative of the largest parliamentary group to stop talking here untruths because three months, six months here Bulgarian citizens have been lied to that some kind of government is being formed! There were all kinds of conversations in all kinds of offices, so they went so far as to buy MPs. When the time came to increase the incomes of the Bulgarian pensioners, you rose here for a hanging in front of the whole country! All kinds of marriages you're trying to make here. Look at you, you hypocrites in front of the Bulgarian citizens because you lied to them! No reform, no change... [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u223	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u224	...nothing's happening. I want you to interrupt them from this tribune when they speak untruths when we talk about the benefits of our work for Bulgarian citizens! This has to be the agenda! When they were giving away 120 leva. The pensioners, what's the problem? I can't understand: Are IN now ruling, or are they opposition? You're an opposition, aren't you? The opposition must vote against the government that is the most important.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u225	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u226	We are not in favour of the Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian pensioners. How do you explain from here that you want to take those 120 leva away from them?? They must be even with the recalculation that has been done. Because these people can't buy drugs, these people die on the streets! How do you explain this thing? Be honest...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u227	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please, in the manner of conduct and we move to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u228	No, no, no. I've got a little more time on my hands. I want you to stop this procedure, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u229	I'm not gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u230	...and continue to look at this proposal, which has been made by the parliamentary groups, and this budget to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u231	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u232	Otherwise, it will be an absolute form of hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u233	You will express your attitude by voting. I shall put it to a vote on the grounds of art. 57, para. Two...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u234	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u235	Mr. Svilensky, we're going into voting mode. There is a procedural proposal to terminate the meeting by a parliamentary group. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Okay, in the manner of holding Mr. Svilensky, Mr. Gajev, and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for giving me the floor. My procedure is with you, and I will not violate the Staff Regulations. It is precisely in the context of what Mr. Toshko Yordanov proposed. There is no way you can put to the vote a procedure to end the discussion, given that this House is speaking so untruely about some coalition you have seen, some weddings, some engagements! Yes, the BSP parliamentary group... [[Loud noise and lines from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u237	Mr. Svilensky, the way you run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u238	...will support any proposal that will bring more income to the Bulgarian pensioners! Mrs. Manolova, lately you remembered to get on that wagon! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] You had to take the vote, there's 120 leva. Not now from the microphone!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u239	120 hasn't been voted yet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u240	120 leva. two votes were voted on once 100, once 120. You missed it, you missed that chance! £650. "Vision for Bulgaria 2016"!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u241	You're not following up on the vote yet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u242	Recalculation of the pensions supposed "Visia for Bulgaria 2016"! Come on, stop copying!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u243	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky! Please don't abuse the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u244	Or if you want to come, we'll tell you about it, but don't do these plagiarism actions for six months on BSP's back!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u245	Mr. Svilensky, please don't abuse the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u246	You're plagiarizing from the DPS because it's their proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u247	Mrs. Manolova! Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u248	Madam President, a brief procedure in the manner of conduct, with the request to submit the Budget and Finance Commission report to the Finance Minister, clearly did not see it, would then have made it clear to him that almost every importing paragraph has been changed and amended, including in the revenue from this.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u249	Thank you, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u250	To give it to him to make him aware that from what has been tabled, the Budget Committee has adopted very different things. And in the end, let's assume that we're going to call this meeting off, so what exactly is going to change? A proposal has been adopted which is not supported by the Commission. Well, surprise, it's happening in the gym. After all, it's what the House decides that matters. Surprise! Welcome to Parliament! [[Noise, laughter, applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u251	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. The Minister should have the report. It is announced on the website of the National Assembly. We shall proceed to a vote on the grounds of art. 57, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the termination of today's plenary session. They voted 220 MPs: for 86, against 109, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on. Mrs. Manolova, you were... [[Noise and lines.]] Revoting, okay. Mr. Karimansky, make your proposal for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making a motion to re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u253	Please, re-election mode. They voted 216 MPs: for 89, against 109, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We'll continue with the report. Mrs. Manolova, you had done...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u254	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u255	You're withdrawing him. Okay. We are going to vote on the final version of the Commission together with the text of an importer and the proposals already adopted. [[Noise and lines.]] With the proposals already accepted, yes. [[Noise and lines.]] There are no suggestions. We voted, Deliana Pesheva is supported and we are going to a text of an importer with editing. [[Noise and lines.]] Desislava Atanasova we voted and supported her. [[Noise and lines.]] Deliana Pesheva has supported the proposal and we're going through... [[Noise and lines.]] But why vote, it is supported by the Commission, it has been tabled in the version of the Commission and we are voting in the version of the Commission with the proposals already made and adopted. [[Noise and lines.]] Now we're voting the editorial, it's... Now we're voting on this. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. Colleagues, we are voting on the import text and the final version of the Commission together with the adopted proposals of Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, and Desislava Atanasova. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, come in, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Madam President! In my opinion, this vote must be annulled for several reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u257	I called it off.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u258	The first is that, with the vote in plenary, we have changed the parameters and cannot fully support conflicting several proposals. [[Noise and lines.]] Madam President, I therefore ask you to put to the vote the proposal of MP Deliana Pesheva, which is part of the report. The plenary room, if it supports or rejects it, will thus be much clearer what is happening to the contents of § 1 and it will probably be, in another sense. Because we voted to change the parameters and Mrs. Deljana Pesheva's proposal and the Commission's report has nothing to do with the vote in this House. We'll make a bigger mistake. So I ask for a separate vote on Mrs. Deliana Pesheva's proposal, first, and then on...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u259	...a final version with accepted proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u260	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u261	Madam President, even what has been proposed here now cannot be met, as the two adopted proposals of GERB and DPS are not identical. They cannot be united. That is why I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the vote on art. 1. Let him return to the Budget Committee. [[Noise and lines.]] To have an additional report of the Budget Committee, as is the practice in similar situations, because the proposals adopted by GERB and DPS are not identical, they cannot be united. Which is it to remain final? Tell me, fellow Members, which of the two proposals? So I propose a procedure to postpone the vote under art. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u262	Thank you. Here's your offer back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u263	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I don't know why they're scaring us with this Budget Committee. Perhaps you can answer me that Mr. Martin Dimitrov expects another ratio in the Budget Committee? Why are you scaring us with this budget committee? The budget committee has done some of the work, which means it hasn't done anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u264	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I put to the vote Mr. Dimitrov's proposal to postpone the vote on § 1 in final wording. Vote 222 MPs: 108 against 91, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Deliana Pesheva's proposal and on a group of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] Because an offer was made... [[Noise and lines.]] Why does it say it wasn't accepted in the system? [[Noise and lines.]] Well, it's not accepted, that's right. That's not acceptable. [[Noise and lines.]] Revoting? All right, Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u265	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! You know very well that in such cases it is always the practice to prepare an additional report, to look at the texts, because otherwise what does it mean? [[noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB-SDSS]] Otherwise, you should have the two adopted proposals... [[Noise and lines.]] Please listen to me! Let's lower our emotions a little bit. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u266	Mr. Dimitrov, you're doing a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u267	I am doing a re-voting procedure because not all of my fellow Members have been able to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u268	Thank you. Vote 224 MPs: 108, against 92, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. As a procedural proposal for a separate vote was made on Deliana Pesheva's proposal and a group of MPs, I put this proposal to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] On Deliana Pesheva's proposal, a request for a separate vote was made. [[Noise and lines.]] No, we are voting on Deliana Pesheva's very proposal and a group of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] It's not a split, I'm just putting it to the vote. It is not a separate vote, it is made as a proposal. Mrs. Atanasova proposed that this proposal be explicitly voted on, so I put it to the vote because of the different framework. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 224 MPs: 135 against 80 abstentions 9. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Atanasova, for revoting? Yeah. Please review the proposal of Deliana Pesheva and a group of MPs. Vote 223 MPs: 139 against 81 abstentions 3. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the version proposed by the Commission along with the proposals already adopted. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] You have three accepted proposals, and you have an importer text, and you have consolidation, so on this text you need to reach consensus and make a final text based on everything that is adopted, Mr. Kariminski. [[Replys from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] As you can see, your proposal to postpone the vote and return the text to the Commission was not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Manolova! [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Manolova, we're in voting mode. The House has already refused to postpone the text, refused to suspend the session... [[Noise and lines.]] There's no third option! [[Noise and lines.]] Voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u269	Honourable Members, as the parliamentary group is standing up BG! [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] We are coming! "We are interested in whether there will be higher pensions for the pensioners, so we want a break because you are voting three different numbers. [[noise, and lines, screams: "Eee!," banging on the banks by GERB-SDS]] [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u270	Please cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u271	Three different numbers! This is a boycott of an increase in pensions from this part of the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u272	Mrs. Manolova, we're in voting mode! [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u273	But three different numbers are voting right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u274	In the cost section, then the numbers appear... [[Noise and lines.]] Please cancel the vote. I said just now to cancel the vote! [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u275	Madam President, colleagues! Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. You have allowed Mrs. Manolova to make speeches in voting mode. We don't know if the offer is accepted...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u276	The vote has been cancelled, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u277	...for the text of § 1 or not? Please, Madam President, bring order to the Chamber and announce the result...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u278	They're three different numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u279	...from the vote on § 1 because you didn't. You gave the floor or I don't know...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u280	She took it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u281	...Mrs. Manolova took it herself to speak at a time when we voted. You didn't announce the result. Please do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, the vote has been cancelled. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u283	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u284	What's your procedure? Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u285	Colleagues, can you get any of the DPS or GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u286	Maybe, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u287	Wait a minute, you don't know what I'm gonna say. [[Noise and lines.]] Can anyone tell us which numbers we're going to vote in § 1 right now? What are the figures that are summarised between GERB, between you and between the Commission's decision? [[Noise and lines.]] Who summarized the numbers? Let's see the numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u288	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u289	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u290	Mr. Ivanov, what's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u291	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u292	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u293	Madam President, with the incredible desire of one part of this House, you have suspended the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u294	I've cancelled the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u295	Now, why don't you tell me why you stopped it, or should we put it to the vote and announce a final result? Mr. Karimansky, you took a procedure in which you didn't say anything. A proposal is made in a procedure. What's your offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u296	I said offer the numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u297	You didn't have a proposal, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u298	Mr. Karimansky, please take your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u299	I suggest you vote and announce the result...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u300	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u301	...in the hall and the Bulgarian pensioners who are waiting to see the result of today's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u302	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u304	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u305	Mr. Ganev, in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u306	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u307	Please come in for a procedural proposal before we proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u308	We're in voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u309	We're not in voting mode, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u310	Madam President, my procedural proposal is this: before we proceed to vote on the paragraph, please clarify to the Members of the National Assembly which numbers are voted on? Whether we vote for the total amount, I am talking about the top line of the table being 15 billion. The Commission 455 thousand. and 500 BGN, or we vote for the first line of the table to be 15 billion. 439 million 055 thousand. and 500 BGN, or we vote for the top line of the table to be 15 billion. 250 million. Eight hundred and fifty-five thousand. And 500 leva.? Only one of three is possible. There's no way for all three of us to vote at the same time. Please tell us, before we proceed to a vote by procedure, which of the three numbers are we voting for? Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u311	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u312	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is true that we are in a special situation, and when we have reached this point, perhaps we should also be a little innovative so that we can get out of this situation. [[Reply from National Representative Tosko Yordanov: "Eee! "]] Yeah, well, otherwise we can block each other and get nowhere. But I think that what we can do and can be the solution that will allow us to continue our work is, firstly, to vote on the Commission's proposal as it has been announced by the President with the corrections made so far in relation to the other proposals, then to move on and when we decide on the expenditure part, if we need to give some rest and then come back for the final third vote on this text under § 1. [[Noise and lines.]] In other cases it is also acceptable according to constitutional decisions. This is the way I think it is, because we here in the revenue section really can't finalize things, even if we do it now, anyway, then we might have to go back. I suggest that we continue our work as originally planned. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u313	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I explained this today to the Conference of Presidents and now I am trying to explain it that there are other texts that reflect on this text. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 1 together with the proposals already adopted. Vote 192 MPs: 186 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving on to § 2. Mr. Karimansky, please report § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u314	Dear Madam President, § 2 by importer. Proposal of the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. In § 2, Art. The following amendments shall be made: ..in para. 1, the total amount of the Fund - in para. 1 Section I REVENUE AND TRANSFERS - ALL, the number - in para. 1, t. 4 the number - in para. 2, the total amount of the Fund (s), the total amount of the Fund (s), the total amount of expenditures and transfers, the number - in para. 2, Section I COSTS AND TRANSFERS - ALL, the number - in para. 2, p. 1, The cost, the number of.11 524 056,4..11 920 - in para. 2, p. 1.1., Pensions, the number..11 523 523.5..11 919 - in para. 2, p. 1.1.1, Pensions at the expense of state social security, the number..11 522 323.5..11 918 683.5.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs The following amendments and additions shall be made in paragraph 2: In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 2 the number s 5 976 554,5 thousand. lv. is replaced by 6 072 904,4 thousand. lv. In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 2, para. 2 the number s.11 524 056,4 thousand. lv. is replaced by 11 724 056, 4 thousand. lv. In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 2, para. 2 the number s. 11 523 523.5 thousand. lv. s is replaced by the number s11 723 523.5 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: "1." In paragraph 1: (a) In the main text, the number (b) In line "I." COSTS AND TRANSFERS - EVERYTHING (c) Line The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) In row For the purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: 2. In paragraph 2: (a) In the main text, the number. "11 524 056,4" is replaced by "11 801 903,2." (b) In line "I." COSTS AND TRANSFERS - EVERYTHING (c) Line The sum of the costs of the number of the costs of the project is equal to the sum of the costs of the project, which is the sum of the costs of the project and which is the sum of the costs of the project and the costs of the (d) In row The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. (e) Line Pensions at the expense of the State Social Security (public social security) shall be replaced by the number "11 522 323,'. 3. In paragraph 3, in row "DEFICITE /-/, EXTRACTION /+/, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Deliana Pesheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 2 is amended as Art. 2. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the Fund for the revenue and transfers of a total of 5 976 554,5 thousand. BGN as follows: (according to the table in the report). (2) It shall adopt the budget of the Fund for the expenditure and transfers of a total of 11 584 956,4 thousand. BGN as follows: (according to the table in the report). (3) Adopts deficit / surplus/ on the budget of the Fund as follows: (according to the table in the report).
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u315	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the debate for speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 177 MPs: 40 against 86, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next proposal by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. 200 MPs voted: 108, against 88, abstention 4. [[Applause from DPS.]] The motion is accepted. Mr. Yordanov, for a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u316	I propose a re-voting of the proposal because many MPs seem to only walk down the halls.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u317	Please, re-election mode. Vote 212 MPs: 112, against 96, abstention 4. [[Applause from DPS.]] The motion is accepted. We move on to the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. [[Heckling]] Vote 206 MPs: 75 against 99, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. We move on to Deliana Pesheva's proposal and a group of MPs. They voted 213 MPs: 131, against 46, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the Commission's version together with the proposals already adopted. [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Vote 178 MPs: for 104, against 69, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u318	Under § 3 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in Article 3: 1. In paragraph 1: (a) In the main text, the number (b) Line COSTS AND TRANSFERS "EVERYTHING' is replaced by the number "S776 791,9'. (c) Line The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) In row The sum of the contributions is equal to the sum of the following: 2. In paragraph 2: s) In the main text, the number (b) Line COSTS AND TRANSFERS (c) Line The sum of the sum of the costs of the operation is equal to the sum of the costs of the operation and the costs of the operation. (d) In row The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (e) Line Pensions at the expense of the State Social Security. The number 3. In paragraph 3, in row "DEFICITE/-', EXTRACTION/+/', the number "-182 163,2' is replaced by the number,-146 666,4. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Deliana Pesheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Art. 3 is amended as follows: Art. 3 (1) He shall accept the budget of the Fund of Pensions for the persons referred to in art. The total amount of EUR 766 791,9 thousand is 69. BGN as follows: (According to the table in the report.) (2) He shall accept the budget of the Fund for the persons referred to in art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. BGN as follows: (according to (3) Accepts deficit / surplus/ under the budget of the Fund 69 (as follows: (as per table in the report).
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u319	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the debate. You have a say in this. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. The first unsupported proposal is by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. They voted 188 MPs: for 73, against 90, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my procedure is on another occasion and related to another law. Please, Madam President, intervene when committee meetings are announced. I have just received a communication for a meeting of the Commission for Control of the Services on 9 September at 16.30 with a single point: Discussion of a second vote The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on NSO. This set-off of a committee is totally and clearly contrary to the time limits recorded in our Rules. I don't see the President of the Commission, Mr. Mitev. [[The National Representative Svetlin Stoyanov gives a sign that he is in the hall.]] The deadlines start the next day, Mr. Mitev, after the adoption of the bill. It was debatable whether he was accepted or not, but the President gave her full responsibility and declared it accepted. In this sense, I would like to announce from the stand, I assume that President Miteva will also do so..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u321	Before the deadline expires.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u322	...before the expiry of the time limits between first and second readings for proposals. [[Heckling]] At the earliest you can announce such a meeting on Friday at the same hour. The plenary room, Mrs. Miteva, please bear in mind that this meeting of the Commission is to be annulled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u323	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. The deadline expires on Thursday, 18:00, so Mr. Mitev, please comply with the regulations for your scheduled meeting. Mrs. Atanasova, do you want to vote on Deliana Pesheva's proposal? I think we don't have to vote separately now. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Yeah, I think so, too. I shall put to the vote the final version of the Commission for § 3. Vote 176 MPs: 150 against 9, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Please report § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u324	A proposal has been made by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "V." The following amendments shall be made to Article 4: "1." In paragraph 1: (a) In the main text, the number (b) In line "I." Revenues and transfers "all' is replaced by the number "177 593,2'. (c) Line Transfers received from the central budget for the State Social Security (public security) shall be replaced by the number?177 593,2. 2. In paragraph 2: (a) In the main text, the number (b) Line Costs and transfers (c) Line The sum of the sum of the costs of the operation of the airport services agreement between the airport operator and the airport operator is equal to the sum of the costs incurred by the airport operator. (d) In row The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (e) Line Pensions at the expense of the public budget. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u325	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 182 MPs: 50, against 91, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4. Vote 172 MPs: 132 against 9, abstention 31. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u326	A proposal has been made by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "V." The following amendments shall be made to Article 5: "1." In paragraph 1: (a) In the main text, the number (b) In line "I." Revenues and transfers - the number of the number of the two hundred forty-five hundred eighty-one is replaced by the number of two hundred forty eighty-three, one hundred and forty-one. (c) Line The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) In row The amount of the contributions shall be added to the amount of the contributions. 2. In paragraph 2: (a) In the basic text, the number (b) In line "I." Expenditures and transfers - the number of the number of the European Union institutions (EU) - the number of the European Central Bank (ECB) - is replaced by the number of the European Central Bank (ECB), the European Central Bank (ECB), the European Central (c) Line The sum of the costs of the number (d) In row The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (e) Line Pensions at the expense of the State Social Security (public contribution) shall be replaced by the number 3. In paragraph 3, in line "Deficit /-/, surplus /+/ ", the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u327	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the debate. For speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 36, against 92, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5. Vote 166 MPs: 135 against 2, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u328	There has been a proposal of the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 "1." In para. The following amendments shall be made: - in a total amount for the budget of the Fund - Total sickness and sickness by expenditure and transfers, the number - in Section I Costs and transfers - everything, the number - in t. 1. The cost, the number..1 313 210.3.. becomes..1 338 - in t. 1.1. Social benefits and benefits, the number 2. In para. 3, Deficit /-/, Excess /+/ the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: I'm sorry, Article 6 shall be amended as follows: "1." In paragraph 1: (a) In the main text, the number (b) In line "I." Revenues and transfers all the number..1 304 (c) In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) In row The sum of the contributions shall be equal to the sum of the following: 2. In paragraph 3, in line "Deficit/-', in excess /+/. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u329	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. For speeches? Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u330	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the meaning for which we are here is based on a thin thread that we are here for the people, supposedly everyone because of their own, but these are the people of Bulgaria and I think we all understand it. I hope that in the next texts in the way of voting this will be seen. Today we're one step away from becoming a laughing stock and being our final laughing stock. I say this because of the texts we offer are people's agenda. This text with all the proposals that are available here in the Chamber, and the money that is worth.. this is the agenda of the people. And it is only important to them perhaps, but I hope it will also be important to the National Assembly. I see that in the last votes, somehow the tactics have changed. Maybe a phone ring in the room. At our door is winter, and if we don't realize that our self-love is not the most important thing, it will become a snowman. So I suggest you vote on this text, which means that for all mothers in the second year there will be 650 BGN. Something that is fair, and something that will help and will not violate the budget as it is. You have already voted revenue, so I am confident that this text can pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. - What's the line? [[Relation of lines between the MPs Maya Manolova and Ivan Chenchev.]] Please! Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u332	Madam President, honourable Members! Let's respect each other. We will support the proposal because it is in the election program of BSP and in Vision for Bulgaria. There's nothing wrong with being offered by other colleagues. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In our election program it says:.650 lv. Second and third years. We'll support him. We also invite all colleagues to support him. It doesn't matter who's offering it. This is important for Bulgarian mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u333	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Any other lines? I can't see. Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u334	Madam President! Dear Professor Gechev, success has many fathers and I deeply believe that. I expect the support of the entire room because this is one of the proposals in which each of us is either a father or a mother or there is one at home. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Gokov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I'm not gonna get into an argument with Mrs. Capon about fathers, about mothers, about that. I just want to say that this motherhood dispute in the second year we have been fighting it for a very long time, perhaps since 2013, 2014 when the government of Plamen Oresharski, however criticised, took this step and leveled it with the minimum wage. That is why our proposal is: the compensation for raising a child up to 2 years of age, the second year of maternity is equal to the minimum wage. We've suggested that she be tied to the minimum wage. We've suggested that it's not tied to the minimum wage, but equal to the minimum wage. Unfortunately, dozens of options have been offered and we have faced a strong resistance in the face of the majority since 2013 2014. It's all GERB. I am very interested in how the other parties that are in parliament will now vote and who, throughout the election campaign, have stated that one of their priorities is the demographic crisis. The demographic crisis, along with the economic measures being taken, is part of helping young families to deliver children. I don't know what the vote will be, but we need to show some responsibility to these Bulgarian parents to give them some air. I am aware that the estimates of the Ministry of Finance for the update of budgets have been made with the possible funds available in the budget. But that's not the point. Do we have a vision of how these people are going to develop? If this does not happen with this budget, with this update of the budget, I very much insist that the caretaker government, which will anyway prepare the budget for the next budget year for 2022, will include this decision on this issue in the next budget. I say this in the hope that it will happen from April 1st and be adequate to the situation and equal to the minimum wage, because the other is funny. Even at risk, as we have spoken with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, that it can be so that a large part of the mothers who have provided themselves on a minimum wage in the first year of motherhood to receive lower compensation than in the second year, these people deserve it. They give birth to Bulgarian children. They take care of our demographics and we can't neglect their problems. I'll say one more thing. I'm taking it to the right people in the hall. I know social problems are a little off. You are passing solutions to social problems through the economy, in which there is nothing wrong. It's theory and politics. But when the economy fails, there are disadvantaged groups, such as young families, they must be helped in another way, although the economy does not allow it quite. Of course, it will be at the expense of something else. But we can ignore, as they say, advance payments for highways and so on and separate. It's not that much money. In this case, that money is $21 million by the end of the year. I appeal to support this proposal. This is what happens when you update a budget in an election campaign that everyone is bidding, but here you avoid bidding. It's a BSP policy since I've been known to empathize with politics, so you can't accuse us of populism. Just think about it and support the offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u337	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u338	Mr. Gokov, why does a mother stay home for the second year when she has a good job? First of all, there's no nursery, there's no place to take his kid, he's waiting in some tails. Maybe a year or two at a time. In some cities, it's even scarier. If you have to give it to a private kindergarten, it is certainly a large amount for her budget. The grandmothers are far away. The only thing we can do is at least give this amount, which is extremely small for raising the child and for compensation. I agree with colleagues in the Committee on Budget and Finance with the logic of how to support working women. But today we are at a stage where we have not provided children with the social pillar so that they can go to kindergarten and talk about the support of the working mother. Right now, we need to support the mother who stayed home to babysit her child because she doesn't have a grandmother or someone close to her who can help or she can't afford it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u339	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u340	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister and Mr Deputy Prime Minister! Mrs. Capon, that wasn't a de facto line, it was just an agreement with me. I confirm all the words you've said, and I stand behind them. If I continue to motivate the need for motherhood to be equal to the minimum wage or to be adequate at all as payment, we can continue until morning with arguments. I fully agree with your arguments for lack of kindergartens and so on, so I agree. I'm using the line to say one more thing. When we talked about policies that could follow a government within this Parliament with the mandate of "There is such a people", we had a very interesting conversation in this direction about motherhood in the second year. There are there with you, gentlemen of the National Assembly, there are such people, interesting ideas in this direction. It is also in the implementation of the European directive on the combination of personal and professional life, and your ideas are good. But in the first place, while we are realizing these ideas of yours, they may need a full mandate. Let us support the proposal to increase motherhood in the second year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u341	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u342	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's not populism that you offer in several parliaments. It cannot be populism, it is a consistent policy of the respective political force. I remember, since 2014, we have been insisting on such a thing, so this is not about any populism. Here we all rely on our personal and human qualities, not only professional, because it's one thing to talk about this thing in a campaign, it's another thing to do it, to bring it into real action here. What's going on? Over 10 years of government of the party that is against me, but in the sectors in respect of these policies, nothing! Not motherhood, not pensioners! And now, when it comes to this thing, almost, you see, we have to argue. Let's talk the truth. How come we didn't find money over 10 years for those needs?! How did we not find them?! There's always something going on, you can't and you won't. There's something else at the same time. There's one for airplanes, there's one for other things. Not to mention that I don't have that kind of time. But there's no pensioners, no mothers, no motherhood. And when we offer it, at some point someone comes out, but here, because outside in a campaign and there you offer it almost the same, but here half of you say, "Well, there's no money; or we'll call the Chairman's Council for one thing or another." And here I want us all to realize, and I'm calling you in fact what this is all about. And when we offer it for so long, yes, it is a consistent policy of a political force, parliamentary represented. There is nothing wrong with a party fighting and insisting on the proposals that it has agreed on above with the relevant sectors. So I call on you to calm down, to accept this proposal, because it will also work. It concerns all of us, not just some group of people who are not here in plenary. Yeah, maybe a little more emotionally earlier, who cheated from who, who did what, but it's the fact that there's a duplication of suggestions. It's a fact! And so we don't have to argue about who from whom, well, let's face it. Here you go, simple! And then the credit will be shared and it will be everyone's. But find out they're watching us. From here everyone stands out: please turn on the camera of the National Television; please turn on the microphones of the National Radio. Well, they're on, so?! So what do we do?! We want to postpone a meeting, to suspend, not to take more pensioners, for motherhood, too. So what?! What are we gonna talk about at the campaign later?! Why? Who are we doing wrong to? What are we so concerned about? There they are! There he is, an entire finance minister. [[Designs Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev.]] It's a Minister of Finance, isn't it? [[(Noise. A line from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In one piece. He's a minister, but he's a finance minister. It's his job, by preparing the budget, to bet on the budget and this. Thank you for your attention and for listening, we insist. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. For a line, Mrs. Capon? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u344	Mr. Chenchev, if I did not obey the decisions of the parliamentary group, and that we are in an update of the budget and not in a normal procedure by budget, I would certainly not agree to BGN 650. What do you mean?! We want to bring more insurance to mothers, we want them to work more, to be on higher salaries and from where the second year will be only 650 BGN.? If you ask me, it's normal to be at least 80% of the insurance income. So this is a first step, so I take it. On the occasion of who has read where and what he has done, I say to you again: success has many fathers, I hope it is not a stepmother now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u345	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Chenchev, will you use the right to the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u346	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Capon, I don't know how many fathers succeed, but the mother of success is one. I agree with you that this is where we have to debate. This is the place. There's nowhere else to go. There is debate here on these issues. It's very nice to have such a discussion. Let us take the first step........................................................................................................ Then, after the finance minister prepares his budget for next year, let him bet it there, each of the parliamentary groups will make a proposal, and this is the way. I call again on you to vote on what you are proposing, but we are defending from 2014, apart from that, of course, for the pensioners and everything we insist on, as I told you just now: they are watching us. In 2014, I don't know exactly what you were doing, but that's what we were doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Here you go, Mr. Delchev. Mr. Yordanov, you're on him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u348	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Six hundred thousand people are missing in the form of emigration or negative growth, the total number of the decline in Bulgaria, of the meltdown of the Bulgarian population is 600 thousand people in the last 10 years. Here the National Assembly has a choice whether to support a signal, to give a gesture not that these 25 million will solve all the problems of mothers in the second year of motherhood, not that these 25 million will enrich someone, here the election of the National Assembly is to support this proposal of the National Assembly! We're coming!.. which we offer to show the mothers that we have not forgotten them, and to show that as they are currently taking between the first and second years of motherhood 380 BGN, we can upload this amount to 650 BGN. I am glad that BSP colleagues will support this proposal. [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria: It is ours, eh! It's ours!]] The only thing I regret, colleagues... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Wait, don't scream, you'll have plenty of excuses. Here I go. The only thing I regret, fellow Members of the BSP, is that you and your previous texts voted so badly on the budget that it will most likely come to the point where mothers will not get that 25 million. lv. I also regret that colleagues from GERB and DPS are not active at all on this topic. I guess they don't care about that. While we were just watching them jump, when they had to sabotage themselves and put three numbers on the same thing so that the government's social security budget could fail, they're now quiet... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please don't shout from a place because it's not polite. I'm not calling you from a place, so stop it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u349	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u350	I mean, the subject is really important, colleagues. Take attitude, take a position and let's support the mothers and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u351	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u352	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! I'm making this line, Mr. Delchev, because in the pursuit of pseudo-publicity, there must be some end to it somewhere. That's why I'm making your line because you obviously misunderstand us. What we have said a few times here, from this tribune, that absolutely everything you like from the Vision for Bulgaria and offer it from here on out, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u353	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u354	Dear colleagues! A colleague from BSP, I may shock you, but I have not read a vision for Bulgaria. Forgive me, maybe this is some fundamental work, maybe it came out of some of BSP's most important captives, but I haven't read a vision for Bulgaria. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, I believe that proposals such as these for the support of mothers between the first and second years circulate not only in the BSP. Think about it, maybe these proposals come from mother associations, maybe they come from non-governmental organizations, maybe they come from separate mothers? So forgive me, but the copyright on the ideas doesn't belong to you. So let's not argue who thought of it first. Maybe we were the first to think about it and you understood a post-Factum? It's a good idea anyway, and we don't have to argue about these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u355	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u356	The financial problem with helping Bulgarian mothers is huge, but a moment ago BSP tried to sew us somehow to what they offer. There is really an extremely strong social position in this direction, but with one small difference we think that there should be huge social support to all Bulgarian mothers who have previously worked, paid social security, paid taxes or are students. At the moment, in this kilo offering will actually continue the wicked practice of mothers aged 14 or 15 to receive a huge amount of money from the social system, which is extremely unfair. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u357	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u358	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Yordanov, what you said, I attach it to the fact that you are simply not in matter because unemployment benefits in the second year, and also in the first year, only mothers who have been provided forward in time, that is, working mothers. [[Applause, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Otherwise, I agree with you that we are very far behind in helping mothers. I said earlier that your party has interesting policies in this direction. I wish you could make it happen. I say this in my line because the big budget will come, the state budget, where family benefits are for children. There you will see our policy in the direction of mothers with children, and you will see that everything we offer is linked to the mothers working for the previous year at least, or in this case 24 months, for both the second and third children of working mothers, and for the tax relief of mothers. So we also expect support for our next policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u359	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Second line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u360	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, what we have not heard today are precisely the figures that may interest citizens. Money benefits for raising a child from one to two years are an indisputable fact. I would just like to point out the amount of amounts that will now have an impact on the budget. We're talking on a three-month basis here. These are, after all, affected mothers.. 48 thousand. 298 pcs. for the quarter period cost the budget 40 million. 834 thousand. lv. to date, since it is 380 BGN, you know, since 2014. In practice, we include all persons who are provided at the date of entry of their children at 1 year. Of course, we have art. 54 of CSR, which also reads amounts that are 50%, that is, a restored mother gets half, that is, 190 BGN. The fact that we are deciding because this is very important, which we will vote on in a moment that it will be towards the minimum wage. Think about why the previous government actually closed this amount to 380 BGN, what does it aim at mothers?! The difference in budget is because the budget will cost us at a 12-month base of 350 million. 177,000. BGN, that is, with more damage to the budget of 186 million. 840,000. lv. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u361	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u362	That's just to think about what we're up to right now. Mothers actually have the right to be helped, the question is: which is the more faithful prevention for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u363	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Yordanov, will you use the right to the back? No. We're going to vote. Paragraph 6? a proposal of the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 170 MPs: 100, against 5, abstention 65. The motion is accepted. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 184 MPs: 68 against 87 abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting in § 6 as proposed by the Commission, with the version of the proposal adopted just now. Vote 185 MPs: 180, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, proceed with § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u364	Paragraph 7 by importer. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In paragraph 1: (a) In the main text, the number (b) In line "I." The amount of income transfers is replaced by the number (c) Line The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) In row The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 45000. 2. In para. 3, of line "Deficit" / "Excess /+/" ==References=====External links==* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u365	Are there any statements under § 7? There aren't any. I'm calling off the debate. Please vote on the proposal of Parliamentary Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. Vote 168 MPs: 68 against 83, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the wording of § 7 in the version of the Commission. They voted 154 MPs: for 123, against 1, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Proceed, Mr. Karimansky, with § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u366	Paragraph 8 by importer. There has been a proposal of the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs: In § 8, Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December - in para. 1, total amount for the budget of the National Insurance Institute of Revenue and Transfers, the number - in para. 1, Section I, the number....6 351 301,9.. becomes..6 772 661,9.. - in para. 1, t. 5, the number supplied 668 611,9supplied 6 689 971,9ssupplied; - in para. 3, DEPHICIT /-/, EXTRACTION /+/ the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in Article 8: 1. In paragraph 1: (a) In the main text, the number (b) Line The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. In paragraph 3, in row "DEFICITE /-/, EXTRACTION /+/, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Deliana Pesheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Art. 8 is amended as follows: Art. 8. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the National Insurance Institute for Revenue and Transfers of a total amount of 6 407 701.9 thousand. BGN as follows: (According to the table in the report) (2) It shall adopt the budget of the National Insurance Institute for Expenditure and Transfers of a total amount of 447 717.2 thousand. BGN as follows: (according to the table in the report). (3) Accepts deficit (excess) under the budget of the National Insurance Institute as follows: (according to the table in the report).
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u367	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. In that case, I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 168 MPs: 32, against 106, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 166 MPs: 45, against 82, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Deljana Pesheva is supported by the Commission, in which case we shall vote directly with the amendment of the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 125, against 26, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Proceed with § 9, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u368	Paragraph 9 by importer. Proposal of the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 9, art. 10, t. 2 the number sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssss,ssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: "VIII." § 9 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Deliana Pesheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... Article 10 is amended as Art. 10. The following minimum amount of pension shall be determined for insurance and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Security Code 2021: 1. from January 1st to September 30th - BGN 300• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. from 1 October to 31 December.. 370 Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Maya Manolova and a group of MPs: A new § 9a is being created: In art. 12 the number 380 is replaced by the number 650 and after the text is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: 'II. Paragraph 9a is inserted: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 after the words..2021......................................................................................................................; from 1 October to 31 December.. 650 The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u369	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u370	Thank you. Dear Madam President, first of all, a procedure. Mr. Karimansky read art. Article 9 9a, which have different materials, we just have to divide them both by votes and speeches. I'll talk to you. 9 which concerns the minimum pension. Here again we are in a very delicate situation, because just now the majority supported the idea of 120 BGN. by the end of the year, every month for each pensioner, now here the minimum wage is increased.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u371	Pension!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u372	Minimum pension, excuse me! Now we will support the increase of the minimum pension because we cannot not support a proposal that raises the incomes of the Bulgarian pensioner because statistics many and all show that a million and a half Bulgarians are below the poverty line. With this raising of the minimum pension they will become a little poorer and still remain poor. If no measures are taken, they will again fall below the poverty line, because next year this threshold will rise to BGN 412. The outcome of this situation we again say that we will support this proposal, but the proposal of Maya Manolova and a group of MPs is 369 BGN, that is less than 300 plus 120 BGN, which makes 420 BGN. And the House has to decide whether we want to raise the minimum pension plus 120 BGN or not! The same is the proposal of Deliana Pesheva, only there is not 369 BGN but 370 BGN. I am telling you that the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria will strongly support the increase of the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u373	Pension!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u374	Sorry, minimum pension. If these proposals remain with Maya Manolova and Deliana Pesheva, we will support them. I would like to say a few words in this direction that I understand the reasons for raising the minimum pension, but that is not how it is done. Another must be the approach. The pension model must have logic, consistency and sustainability in order to have trust. Many things may change, but in any case, the basic principle of the pension should not be violated and paid out according to the insurance contribution, i.e. according to the time during which a person has been provided according to the income on which he was provided and how he treats the average social security income. The other is unfair, and with the proposal to increase the minimum pension by 24%, and the maximum pension by only 4%, and everyone else, if accepted, of course, by 12.5% with an increase in the burden of a year of insurance service, is unfair. This injustice completely disrupts the credibility of pensioners and will create tension among its users. Imagine what a country looks like where two thirds of all its pensioners receive a minimum pension! I was gonna say "work salary" again. Minimum pension! It kind of doesn't sound like it. No social security principle is respected either way. I'm very interested in what people think about the things we do. I will quote one point of view and one point of view expressed on the social networks of an anonymous person to me is with his name, but I do not know him, which exactly illustrates the attitude of people to what we are doing at the moment with raising the minimum pension. I quote: I've been bumping into Bulgaria my whole life and I barely retired, and my acquaintances went abroad and worked without insurance, and now they're taking as much as I do. What have I provided for? Unfortunately, that's what most people say. If the amount of the social security payment, in this case the pension for time served and old age, does not depend on the amount of social security contributions and their duration, then why is the insurance system at all, and we do not pay the pensions by means of the tax system as social assistance to the elderly in an amount that depends not on the social contribution, but on the favor of the person who manages the state? What does increasing the minimum pension require? Of course, a lot of things do. The most important thing that imposes it is that the pensioners after 12 years are sorry that I say this, but after 12 years of GERB management and no measures in this direction for the adequacy of pensions, but absolutely no measures, we are at this point to wonder what to do with these pensioners and how to live better. I say once again that we will support the increase of the minimum wage to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u375	Pension. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u376	Pension! I'm sorry. Retirement to the size offered.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u377	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u378	Since the mess has become great, I still want to ask my colleagues on this side: You want to make the minimum pension 480 BGN. Oh, yeah? 490 BGN, I apologize because 370 plus 120 makes 490 BGN. It's okay. I'm retired. I don't mind. [[Applause from IHN.]] But I would like to ask you, colleagues: what is going on with the other pensions, we beat them up and the average pension goes to the movies?! What are we doing? Here, I asked the Finance Minister to make an account of the value of one, the second and the third. Now can you say because you've made the estimate how much it costs to choose what to vote for? Tell me what to say to journalists: the minimum pension becomes BGN 490. Or it becomes BGN 370. plus 120 that we can't take posthumously, and the other pensioners ate them...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u379	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. Are there any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u380	The line is to colleague Gyokov. He did a thorough analysis, but did not make an important summary. Firstly, you see that contradictions arise, honourable colleagues, and everyone understands it because we did not partially change the model, but we are trying to improvise on a model that is mistaken. If pensions were recalculated compared to 2019, as we propose from BSP, nothing political, then we would not have deepened the following contradiction, honourable Members and colleagues. First we solved one issue by raising the minimum pension to 370 BGN, and in fact we are reducing the difference between people with the same work experience, with the same profession retired at different times, isn't that great? However, we are deepening the contradictions between those who have worked for four years and those who have worked for 40 years. This is the first gross error we have invaded the disproportion, which we have also addressed in the Budget Committee. The second contradiction is where the money for the higher pensions comes from. Here is the Minister of Finance and he is worried because he will have to make revenue which is not yet foreseen. This comes from the second tragedy in the pension system that more and more the Pension Fund depends on the transfer from the central budget to state social security, which is contrary to European and global practice. The intention of the exit of the Pension Fund from the budget system was for this fund to grow 5, 10, 15, 20, 30 years, for transfers from the budget to decrease and increase independence. We are now taking measures to partially resolve some issues by not complying with the common system, solving some problems, colleague, and deepening others. Let us hope that the next government will bring European order into this messy and unfair system!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u381	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. [[Noise and lines.]] Tell him what, Mrs. Zaykova? You don't have such a procedure, there's a duplicate from Mr. Gokov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u382	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Zaykova, I would like to respond to your line and this is exactly why I started my statement that we are in an extremely delicate situation after we voted 120 BGN. for every retired man for the rest of the year. Now that the minimum pension is raised, as I say, if we don't raise it, it becomes BGN 420, and if we raise it, it becomes BGN 490. I explained that our parliamentary group would support the proposal if it was not withdrawn by Maya Manolova and the proposal was not made by If these proposals are not withdrawn as minimum pensions, we will support them. We are based on the position that the Bulgarian pensioner with these miserable pensions is even BGN 370. To increase them, they're miserable again, and they're on the verge of poverty. Hopefully, in a year's time, the poverty line will be defined more adequately and raised, or else they'll fall behind. We are not overcoming the risk of poverty with this. I also understand the delicacy of the income situation in the budget and therefore I say: let's think about what we are doing...... are we raising the pensions of the pensioners de facto to BGN 490. Or we'll leave it at £420.? From the parliamentary group we will not stop repeating it because it will turn out so that the BSP does not want to support raising the minimum pension, and that is not the case. We'll support it if you say 1,000 leva. To become the minimum pension, we will support it and this!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u383	There's a general misunderstanding and the basic proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u384	Mrs. Zaykova, I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u385	...of there is such a people is multiplying the internship by 1.35. It's to stimulate people to work more, and that's why they get BGN 370, not because we made it up. Mr. Professor, I'm sorry, but it's not the wrong system, we're multiplying 1.35 for all those who have real experience, and that's how you get the 370 levs, not because we made them up. I would therefore like to tell you that I do not object, as the plenary has decided, but we must decide two things. One is whether we take this principle to stimulate people's work to have more internship, to put in more work, more years and to increase them the coefficient that we should have raised for a long time, I'm sorry, 1.35 is a late coefficient, it should have already been 1.5, so we don't violate the pension system, and we solve Thanks, I'm retired, you're gonna make me rich, but we have to solve the second question anyway. It's about some millions, which the Finance Minister will now tell you about and will ask you where to get them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u386	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" He is a magician! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u387	Yeah, we're magicians. We found 2 billion. Colleagues, in the update we've proposed, there's an income of 2 billion. What has been proposed so far is contained in this revenue. We proposed in the update that the revenue of 2 billion be distributed as follows: 575 million for social costs, of which 353 million for public social security; 430 million for business; 335 million for health care; 231 million for other costs; 133 million for elections and 103 million for the European Union's contribution, which is increasing. So far, what has been adopted by Parliament gives us three different conflicting instructions, and as executive we must implement them. In one instruction we must give 120 leva. "October, November and December," and on 1 January, they will drop out. This instruction is worth 600 million. lv. If we take away the support for business and other expenses, that 600 million. lv. We have them, but we're telling the business there won't be any support for you, and we're giving you that 120 million. lv. That's the choice you have to make. The second instruction you gave me was to give 100 leva each. For those three months and January 1st, they'll be gone. This instruction is worth 327 million. lv. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, for the three months, and you still have to tell us which other feathers to cut to give them. The third instruction that Parliament gives us is to use 1.35% as an internship factor, increase all pensions by 12.5% and make the minimum pension 370 BGN. This thing's gonna cost us $80 million. BGN that still has to come out of one of the other feathers. So all three instructions are feasible, but you have to tell us which other feathers, when we discuss the state budget tomorrow, must be reduced. The only thing we want from Parliament, as you decide, is a clear instruction which of these three things to do. To be clearly written in the Law: you do the first, you do the second or you do the third, and at the moment the Law is written: you do the first, but you do not do the second and the third, but you do not do the first and the third, but you do not do the first two, which is not feasible. So we would ask you so that you could really retire, mom and all these people get their money, give us clear instructions on what to do. From there on, when we start looking at the state budget tomorrow, based on this clear instruction, we will know how much money we have for the other measures provided for in the update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u388	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ademov, you wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u389	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! Colleagues, the discussion is currently on the paragraph that concerns the minimum pension for internship and age, not the minimum wage and is not for this discussion. What you said was clear a long time ago. Honourable Members, the minimum retirement and age pension under the Social Security Code shall be determined each year by the budget of the State Social Security. So far, everything is clear, and from there on, the minimum pension for internship and age has always been a political decision. Always! Over the past 30 years, the minimum pension for internship and age has been a political solution, not an expert solution. We are talking about political arguments, not expert arguments. Of course, the best option is for them not to get away with it and somewhere in time to intersect. This is the best option, but right now we are talking about a political decision who offered 370 BGN. minimum pension for internship and age? Who? It wasn't you, Mr. Minister, it was suggested by the colleagues of IHN or by the so-called parties of change. What we offer for 120 BGN, for 100 BGN. Or 50 leva. or to recalculate, are options alternative to this proposal, and are not cumulative, as was just said here. This is not about cumulation at all. We know that pensioners who are of a minimum size live below the poverty line and so on. The natural question that arises is: can we solve the problems of social security, with the budget of state social security? Can we solve the problems of poverty and the possibility of social exclusion in Bulgaria? If we can, then we'll pay this price as a society we're talking about right now. If we can't, then we say which option to choose. We of the DPS have proposed this option - 120 BGN, we have made the respective estimates, but as an alternative proposal, not as a very important proposal on your proposals, because then the budget becomes really unfulfilled - not that with the current proposals is feasible. The topic is currently about the minimum retirement pension and the age I am talking about this paragraph. So you offer 370 leva. a minimum pension for internship and age and you put us in a situation where we do not have the opportunity to reject this proposal. It's ridiculous, you know? You are proposing with the social security system to solve the problems of poverty, not to have pensions below the poverty line, something that is not true, Mr. Minister, because even with your version of pensions unrelated to employment, which are a percentage of the social pension for old age, will again remain below the poverty line, that is about 61,000 pensions, so let's concentrate on this. If there is such a proposal to increase the amount of minimum pension for internship and age, I am sure there will be no parliamentary group that does not support it, and we will support it, you know? However, the issue is political. So I started by saying that the minimum pension for internship and age is a political solution. From there on, if we're going to talk about expertise, this is a very separate discussion. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u390	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? Mrs. Zaykova, come in for a first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u391	Mr. Ademov, you're absolutely right! That minimum pension is a political decision, you're right. I ask you: if you offer minimum pension because 120 leva. It's not a pension, right, it's something else, it's 300 BGN, it means that all the other things we're talking about, there won't be people getting it that are below the poverty line, something doesn't add up. Excuse me, just say it straight: we offer 300 leva. to remain the pension and 120 leva. There, let's give them some help. Is that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u392	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. Second line, come in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u393	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Ademov, if you had thought about it 40 minutes ago, an hour ago, instead of voting on an angro for those 120 levs, which are the help of a horse, you would not have come into this hypothesis now. Because the minimum pension is a minimum pension for after 1 January, and one hundred and twenty levs are aid that will not be available on 1 January. January is the worst month for the population. [[Reply from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u394	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A hole, Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u395	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I don't know how it has to be said to make it very clear. What should I tell you further? We offer an alternative version of what the office offers. That's not what you suggested. You suggested that the minimum pension be BGN 370. Or there's 369 as much as the poverty line. Shall we say this again, how many times do we have to do it again? By the end of the year we say: these 120 leva. Three months is 360. They're an alternative to the office's proposal because we say... [[Reply from IHN: "This is help! "]] Nobody said it was an insurance payment. A little while ago in the previous speech, in the previous hours, when we accepted the increase in revenues by 200 million, we made clear where this revenue would come from, in our view. If you do not accept it, do not vote, the National Assembly decides. But from then on, when there are accepted and additional revenue, there is an opportunity for alternative proposals. When we all want each of the proposals to be accepted, we come to this situation, there can be no other situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u396	There's no majority. Everyone's offering what they want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u397	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u398	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! The fact is that on two votes the parliament adopted an increase in the revenue portion of the state social security budget on the proposal of the DPS plus 200, or 256 million, on the proposal of GERB 300 million total. So these are votes that have already been made. What we need to decide is how to provide them to the pensioners. The DPS proposal excludes the update, that is to say excluding the lasting and permanent moment in the increase in pensions. Yes, we have offered a minimum pension of 369 or 370 BGN, but we have also offered the supplement of 50 BGN. To continue, i.e. the proposal of a stand up BG! We're coming! plus for pensioners, but in a fairer way, which includes: constant increase of pensions with plus 70 BGN, which will not stop on January 1st, and a supplement of 50 BGN, so that the increase will be from 120 BGN. Because, let's be honest, these plus 120 leva. have a temporary character. It is better that people receive constant plus 70 and plus 50 if the hall is united, for the months until New Year's. Otherwise, there is no way and it will come to absurdity if we accept everything once plus BGN 70. recalculation of pensions offered by the office, once plus 120, once plus 50 levs proposed by our parliamentary group. So within the framework of the votes already adopted in two votes plus 300 million. BGN, there is no way all these things can happen, so let's accept what is best for the pensioners, and that is: minimum pension of 370 BGN, an increase of all pensions by 12.5%, which is an average of 70 BGN, plus 50 BGN. by the end of this year's anti-coil supplement. This is the best decision for the pensioners that we have offered from.. Stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u399	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u400	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I wish you were right, but in this case you are not, because what you are saying that the minimum pension will continue after 1 January is not true. Because the minimum pension amount is determined by the State Social Security Budget Act each year. So the legislator can decide that this pension will return it to 300 BGN, it can increase it to 370, and it can do it to 450. So in this case, you're wrong that this will continue after New Year's Eve. I really wish you were right, but you're not.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u401	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Manolova, would you like to use your coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u402	Dear colleagues, ministers! Dear Mr. Gokov, in fact the recalculation of pensions, which the office offers and must be recognised here by this tribune, has a lasting character. This is the first cabinet to offer recalculation of pensions after 2008! Whether it is a recalculation or a serious update, but it is a fact and it is the first finance minister to stand behind such an increase in pensions [[Comments from GERB-SDS and DPS: "Eee! "]] which is an average of 12.5% for all pensions. Those are the facts. Whether you want to or not, these are the facts. Minister Vassilev is the first minister to propose it. If we think it's not enough and, yes, we, from Stand up BG! We are coming!.. we think it is not enough, to his proposal for an increase of BGN 70, we offer 50 BGN. the allowance of pensioners until 1 January. We've proposed it in this project. This is how we are buying into the revenue section that you have proposed, which was adopted by the National Assembly and which ultimately has to coincide with the Expansion. So agree what is better for the pensioners, and it is clear that the recalculation has a lasting character. The supplement to pensions is a temporary anti-corporation measure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u403	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there any other statements under § 9? If there isn't, we'll call off the debate and move on to the vote. We begin with the proposal of MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 180 MPs: 38, against 86, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 9. They voted 170 MPs: 148 against 1, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. We move on to the proposals under § 9a. Would you like to make a statement under § 9a? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u404	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Our proposal is related to § 9a, to the text which is responsible for the period 1 October " 31 December" and receive 650 BGN. for the second year of motherhood. In order not to get into the debate on pensions, then a debate on motherhood, I think it is necessary to be supported and I call you to this because, speaking of success, the repetition of this success in the mother is actually the repetition of this success of the vote of BGN 650. Moreover, women who work are provided for the risk of general illness and disability and what they should receive as BGN 650. The second year is neither free nor a gift. I therefore call for a vote on this proposal of ours, which I sincerely hope will be supported by this House. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u405	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Are there lines? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u406	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have not voted on our proposal for 269's minimum pension, but we accept that it is incorporated into the Commission's proposal for 270.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u407	Three hundred and seventy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u408	Three hundred and seventy, just to make it clear to the Chamber, not to reason...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u409	But it is generally supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u410	...to attack.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u411	No, it's backed up in principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u412	Let us not create prerequisites for attacking adopted texts for procedural misconduct. So we accept that it is part of the Commission's proposal. We will support the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria and our proposal to increase maternity for the second year, as we believe that the budget of the DSO after all the expenses foreseen can afford 25 million for mothers who raise children up to two years of age. We are talking about 30 000 mothers, about 30 000 families for whom this assistance, especially in the conditions of Kovid, is important, so since we voted plus 300 million revenue in the budget of state social security, of them 25 million for women, for working women, because these are the mothers provided, for working women who raise their children, is simply not a gesture, but an act due by the Bulgarian Parliament. So we will support the BSP proposal, we expect them and the House to support our proposal as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u413	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate on §9a. We are going to vote on Maya Manolova's proposal and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 198 MPs: 125, against 51, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the next proposal by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 183 MPs: 100, against 75, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, proceed with § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u414	Paragraph 10 by importer. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The current § 10 becomes § 9, as in the table "Annex No 5 to art. The following amendments shall be made to it: "1." Line up. COSTS AND TRANSFERS - EVERYTHING 2. Line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 3. In line.1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 4. Line two. Transfers received from the central/state budget 5. On line two. COSTS AND TRANSFERS 6. Line one. The sum of the sum of the costs of the transaction is equal to the sum of the costs of the transaction, i.e. the sum of the costs of the transaction and the costs of the transaction. 7. In line.1.1. The number of pension accounts is replaced by the number of the number of the pension accounts of the Member State concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Deliana Pesheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... Annex 5 to art. 17 is amended as follows: Next, a table for a CONSOLIDATED BUDGET. "CONSOLIDATED BUDGET of the social security funds administered by the National Insurance Institute for 2021" (Next table.)
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u415	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the debate. For speeches? I can't see. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Vote 196 MPs: 78, against 88, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the final version of the Commission for § 10, which becomes § 11. They voted 196 MPs: 124, against 46, abstention 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u416	Paragraph 11 by importer. Proposal of the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. In § 11, the words shall be: "1." In § 6, para. 1 the words "February and March" shall be replaced by "February," March, September, October, November and December." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Paragraph 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall make the following additions and amendments: - A new para is being created. 2 to § 6: To the pension or the sum of pensions, together with the supplements and compensations to each pensioner for the months of October, November and December 2021, an additional amount of 120 BGN shall be paid. - Al. 2 becomes para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u417	Quiet, please! Mr. Stanev and Mr. Balabanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u418	Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. § 11 becomes § 10 and the following amendments are made to it: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." In § 6, al. 1 the words "February and March" shall be replaced by the words "February, March and September," and for the months of October, November and December an additional amount of 100 levs shall be paid. " 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: For the period from 1 January to 30 September 2021, the limit under § 6, paragraph 6 shall not apply. 1 and 2 of the transitional and final provisions of the Social Security Code. (2) For the period 1 January to 30 September 2021 the maximum amount of one or more pensions received without additions shall be BGN 1440. (3) For the period from 1 January to 30 September 2021, the additive referred to in art. 84 of the Social Security Code is calculated from restrictions under point (a). 2 size The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 10, in the text prior to that. 1 the words.........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u419	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u420	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, honourable ministers! Colleagues, I would like to read very clearly the proposal we are making under this paragraph: To the pension or the sum of pensions, along with the supplements and compensations to them, each pensioner for the months of October, November and December 2021 is paid an additional amount of 120 BGN. Because we believe that all Bulgarian pensioners are equal to the crisis regardless of their income. We offer a horizontal increase of 120 BGN. of the proposal as an alternative to the proposal of the Council of Ministers of the Office. We never said we were offering that 120 leva. as cumulative proposals made between first and second readings. That is, the proposal we are making is very clear: an alternative proposal of what the office is doing. Instead we offer these 120 leva. That's 120 leva. are to cover the costs during the worst winter months of all Bulgarian pensioners regardless of their incomes they are equal to the crisis, I repeat, this is very important. Mr. Ananiev said to look over there. This is not so important where I look. The important thing is what I say, and what I say is waiting for all Bulgarian pensioners. [[Applause from DPS.]] Do you understand? I repeat: the proposal we are making is alternative to the proposal of the office. It has nothing to do with, in the meantime, the proposals made between first and second readings that make cumulation impossible to apply. What we have done as estimates, we believe that these 200 million, which we offer you in the revenue section, have repeatedly stated our arguments, are sufficient to be able to implement this support of 120 BGN. It is the National Assembly's will to decide. Our request is to support the Bulgarian pensioners so that they can have a normal winter. As for strategic policies, how the pension system should change, I have never said that the office's proposal is some kind of reform. Not at all! I have witnessed here in this room of election budgets that are linked to local elections, to election budgets that are linked to parliamentary elections, in this case early parliamentary elections even, but I have never seen election budgets related to the presidential race. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] Therefore, colleagues, my request is, this is not social support, this is not social support, this is not support that depends on the insurance contribution. This is support for Bulgarian pensioners so that they can survive the winter. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u421	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Vassilev, let's go through the procedure. We're in the middle of a line-up procedure, and then I'll give you the floor. ♪ For a cue ♪ ♪ Here you go ♪
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u422	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ademov, with all due respect, you have tried several times today to explain that it is actually the opposition that makes proposals alternative to what has been tabled by the Council of Ministers. So is GERB, so are you, so is BSP! Obviously it cannot be understood by the majority, it is not a majority in fact, it is clear that cumulatively there is no way to calculate these 100 or 120 leva. together with the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Why, Mr. Ademov? Because, in fact, I have never, at least since I have been in this Chamber and have had the opportunity to vote on budgets, so far, opposition proposals have not been accepted. They are alternatives to what the Council of Ministers usually imports, but that is because there is usually a minister of finance who is responsible for how it will implement these funds. Accordingly, he has negotiated with the majority of parliament the measures and financial estimates so as to make sure that he himself, bearing responsibility, will then fulfill what this House will accept. We are currently witnessing that neither there is a clear majority, everyone has proposed some great measures in the election campaign What's happening is irresponsible. I also thank those parties, who promised some change and who talked about them fixing parliamentaryism and will make the state better. On the contrary, we are going towards very serious financial problems in the future. It's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u423	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. For the second line Mr. Ademov, third line Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u424	Why them? They're from the same parliamentary group?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u425	Because they raised their first hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u426	Well, good!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u427	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ademov, why is this happening? Mr. Nenkov started the conversation why did it happen like this? Because perhaps this is one of the few parliaments in the world, and perhaps on other planets, I do not know where the opposition has a larger number of MPs from the ruling majority. That's why it happened! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u428	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mrs. Manolova, are you giving in to Mr. Karimansky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u429	Dear Mr. Ademov, we've established a task force. In the working group, no matter how funny it is for GERB, because they left demonstrively in the working group was Mr. Ananiev up to a point and then disappeared.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u430	I didn't agree with your suggestions!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u431	Just because you weren't okay with it doesn't mean anything. The Minister was in the task force... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u432	Mr. Karimansky, I'm asking for a line to Mr. Hamid. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u433	The fact that you were against means only one thing that you voted against, and we all voted for, and that's why the working group accepted that thing. You saw it because... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, that's right. It is decided here, and as it is decided here, it is very important for all of our voters that yours, the DPS, the BSP and the right side, to know that where we decide strictly professionally and expertly, the people of all these parties from the centre, and on the left, behave in one way, and when they come to the room, they start with populist proposals all the time. When they are in the working group, in one way they behave, they vote in one way, in the Commission they vote in one way and here in a different way. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] This is absolutely unacceptable. [[Applause from IHN. Noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u434	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Ademov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u435	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for your lines. I'm starting backwards. Mr. Karimanski, welcome to the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Applause from DPS.]] Parliament is a political body in the Bulgarian National Assembly and in any National Assembly political decisions are taken and the best option is when these political decisions are backed up with sufficiently serious expertise. That's what we're trying to do. From then on, what has been adopted in the Budget Committee or in any committee, does not necessarily mean that it must be adopted. Otherwise, it would be pointless to consider a second reading in plenary. From there on, Mr. Nenkov, Mr. Hamid, what you say is extremely important. Why? Not because it's in the form of a line, but because the entire budget procedure is upside down with the lining out. Do you know why? Because when it comes to updating the budget, when it comes to adopting a budget, a budgetary procedure, a majority is first sought to support the proposed changes, not the other way round. [[Applause from DPS.]] Because if there is no political majority to support the proposed changes, there is no one to take responsibility. Responsibility is dimming, as is the situation at the moment. From there on, if we want to get out of this complicated situation, because we are really in a complicated situation, can this budget work the way it has been adopted or cannot, these are the issues that remain until the end of this budget. But I repeat, without a political majority, without taking responsibility, because it is good that the service cabinet takes responsibility, but let this responsibility be within the framework of anti-crisis measures, of anti-crisis measures relating to a species. From there on, the office cannot in any case change policies, and long-term ones, which are related to additional costs. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u436	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u437	Mr. Ademov, I have a question for you, okay? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It's a technical question. That's 120 leva. are they going to pay off once for the three months, or are they going to pay off every month? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u438	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u439	If that's 120 leva. will be paid each month, then the necessary additional revenue is not 246 million, as is your proposal, but 738 million. So I ask a technical question: whether the revenues are wrong or the texts for 120 BGN. Are they messed up? [[Noise and lines.]] From now on, as far as the budgetary procedure is concerned, as I said at the beginning, if decisions have been made in offices negotiated in other chambers, and Parliament has simply hit the print, I think this is an incorrect way of making policy. At least that's not how I understand it. The role of the finance minister, as I accept it and as I am trying to protect it right now, is to submit the information, as I handed it to you a moment ago. This proposal costs so much, the other one costs so much, the third one costs so much, and the parliament decides what is best for the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u440	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Ademov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u441	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we have said very clearly in our proposals that these additional 200 million of insurance contributions are to the proposals that you are making that 503 million that are in favour of the public budget that you are offering. Of these, you know very well that 399 million is from the implementation of the $ 230 million of the income from insurance contributions, plus a transfer from the state budget. In addition, there is an additional 104 million, which are for the 50 leva in September. This forms your offer of 503 million. So are we clear, or do I have to explain more?! [[Applause from DPS.]] From there on, honourable Members, we offer an additional 200 million. We've been arguing about how many times this is happening. That's 703 million! We're probably wrong about another million, but there are experts who can tell us exactly what the distribution is going to be. So out of all the questions you're asking, now I have to ask you a counter-question, Mr. Minister: Can you tell me where you'll find for the budget, because most likely a service cabinet will prepare the budget for the next year, billion and 800 million? Where are you gonna get them? What sector? Tell me, which sector will you take them from?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u442	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Vasilev, I didn't give you the floor! Mr. Ivanov, you asked for an opinion from a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u443	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I am truly surprised at the opinion given by the Minister of Finance, given that, by drawing up the budget and all the proposals of the parliamentary groups, as said by our colleagues from the DPS, so was the proposal of the GERB-SDS parliamentary group, our proposal does not complement this of the Council of Ministers, but was proposed for a certain period of time and the estimates that we have made with our experts are an addition to those funds that you had already provided for in the budget of the DVO. So it's normal for these three months, as you said, to have a larger amount, but the increase that we were proposing within these three months is this difference. It's not entirely. We have turned the constitutional procedure and the Constitution of Bulgaria once again, in which we see that a member of the Council of Ministers is asking questions to the National Assembly, in which there may be nothing wrong, but we need to make an important clarification. If a member of the Council of Ministers disagrees with the majority of the National Assembly, what does he do? If you don't know, ask Hristo Ivanov to resign. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u444	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other opinions from a parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u445	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, the habits in the National Assembly are very bad, and it is always the Minister of Finance who has made a decision, who has dictated the rules and who has told the majority what to do both in the Budget Committee and in the National Assembly. For the first time, we are witnessing a minister of finance who is involved in the debate, who wants to speak, who gives us the numbers and we have to decide. One of my first lessons in politics I received from Mr. Tsonev when, in one of the first budget committees, he told another colleague, but I took it: "Boy, BAS is across the street, here is the National Assembly. Political decisions are made when there is a majority and when there is a cabinet. Even if a minister of finance disagrees with his cabinet, he's the one who can decide. A minister of finance can also decide that as a minister of business. No president can make him stay more than the day he decides. Here you have a minister of finance who, as you can see, has a spine. So, Minister, it's complicated. Just to say on behalf of the parliamentary group that we in the framework of our proposals have given in two parts the first part to be 370 BGN, and the second part to be an addition as part of that this supplement will disappear at the moment when we make the reform after 1 January with the recalculation of pensions. Because, as you said, no one can afford to remove an supplement that is given and where there is a habit.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u446	Your time, Mrs. Capon. Thank you. Others for attitude? For speeches? Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u447	To Mr. Ademov. The Budget Committee, including the MRF experts, presented the main parameters of the Consolidated fiscal programme for 2021. The proposed increase, which includes 1 billion, is clearly visible there. 800 million. lv. For pensioners, plus 900 million. lv. additionally for the Road Infrastructure Agency, so as to eliminate the wicked practice of handing out money with PMS and to be fully funded all infrastructure repairs. With the supplement, which is for poverty, to the poverty line, which from January 1st next year becomes BGN 413 and from January 1, 2023 I think it rises to BGN 450, is also included in this programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u448	How much is the deficit going to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u449	Deficit's down to 3%. This year, as you voted, under the current law is 3.9, with the proposed update falling to 3.6. Next year, when we pay for pensions, we pay for the roads, we bet 3 billion. lv. COVID costs, if required, bet 3 billion 300 million. lv. for additional policies that the government can conduct next year, we fall to 3% deficit. And all of this is shown in the Budget Committee with very clear estimates from the government. So the budget can afford this increase and not be a one-time increase by the end of the year, but also bet in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u450	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Statements? Mr. Ganev, come in. For a statement? [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u451	Thank you, Madam President. I will take account of the proposal of my colleagues from the DPS. They very much insisted that, by the way, colleagues from GERB, who had a similar proposal that the measure was strictly temporary and that no one should explicitly be fooled that this money is planned to continue to be received by the Bulgarian pensioners after the expiry of the extreme situation, whenever this is. I hope I've got the argument right... [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Okay, but obviously the philosophy is, when there is no epidemic situation, to stop paying these additional funds to the Bulgarian pensioners. Because it's the end of the year and it's temporary, the most temporary thing is the one. I cannot understand and will ask someone to explain it to me: why three payments of 120 BGN are to be made, and not on 1 October each to receive 360 BGN. and end it? Let's get this over with! Honestly and clearly on 1 October one payment of BGN 360. and end the matter. And they will know that on November 1st they will receive nothing and on December 1st they will also receive nothing to be clear! Yeah, on the 12th, okay on November 12th, if you want, maybe on the 7th, there for the election. Okay, that's the first one. The second, as also colleagues from the DPS claim that they have very well-made estimates, I, in order to be able to form my opinion on this proposal and how I will vote, is extremely important to me to know the following: to take a person on a minimum pension in the current status quo before what we are voting on today is still in force. Your offer sends it to £420. by the end of the year "three times 420" instead of 300 for October, November and December. Just to make a small correction "October" in Bulgaria is not yet a winter month, but this is another topic. [[Reply from DPS: "Depends on where you live. "]] No, it doesn't. There's astronomy on that. If we already voted at second reading the minimum pension will become BGN 370, there will be people who receive at least BGN 370. Now your proposal is for them to receive for October, November and December 490 leva. Is it, or is it 420 again, or is it only 50% for them? Please explain this to me so I know how to form my attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u452	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Tsonev, you asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u453	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! [[Deputy Prime Minister Galab Donev, Minister Assen Vassilev and National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski are talking.]] Then you'll ask again what we said. Much of my speech is intended...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u454	Mr. Karimansky, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u455	Much of my speech is meant for you, because something is still not clear to you. Look, there are long-term policies, there are anti-crisis policies, and that's why we don't find the hot water. The President, who broadcast this government, appealed to the Bulgarian Parliament to adopt an update of the budget, because we will not make long-term policies with this budget, but to face the crisis, as there may be no normal government. Well, I had to. And we responded to these requests, then threats became unconstitutional, that the third term would not be served until we adopted the budget. The main idea which the President put into place, if I am mistaken and misunderstood, correct me, the main idea that the office launched as a motivation to make an update, although we warned and gave techniques how the crisis could be met without an update, because there is money, there are mechanisms to meet, but because there were scary calls for an update and we all decided to respond together. We are updating anti-crisis measures, not long-term programs and policies! It is an anti-crisis measure to give pensioners certain money for the months in which there will be no parliament, and you will be responsible for it. We're doing it 50, 70, 100, 120, who found as income sources. We told you that our proposal is based on yours, not... And that's how I respond to Mr. Ganev, BGN 340. is the minimum pension here, it is not 370. 370 is based on a proposal which, if accepted, will become 370. Dr. Ademov told you ten times that it was based on the office's proposed update. On this basis are these 120 leva. Now whether they will be paid at once does not matter. In fact, there is, Mr. Ganev, and the point is this: the revenue in the budget has a monthly cycle and it is good that payments are also monthly, so there are no 360s at once and then two months of nothing. Again, the anti-crisis measure is 120 BGN. to every retired man. Why everyone? And not according to income, as you suggest this update or recalculation, or whatever we call it, instead of 1.25 and 1.35? Because the guy who gets £700. a pension, and the one who gets 340 leva. There is a crisis that is the same for everyone. These are anti-coffee measures, both for business and for all sectors, we will see tomorrow how all sectors will be given fair according to Fisk capabilities, even according to the slightly tense Fisk capabilities. Even at the risk of going a little more into deficit this year, we can afford it for next year we will correct it. The whole question comes down to not accepting, colleagues, and I voted, and our group voted against the 1.35 ratio. We did this because these things must be done with anti-crisis measures, not with a policy that affects the next budgets, which will affect a majority that will take responsibility. Therefore, our proposal, when we conclude with the adoption of this budget, before the entry into force, is that we take advantage of Constitutional Court Decision No 4, which gives us the right to return to the third vote of the paragraph on revenue, which will be in line with the already adopted proposals for expenditure. This is where I open a clamp. I've always offered art. 1 of all budgets shall be adopted last, so as to be settled in the Public Finance Act, because when you accept art. 1 and the revenue, you're deprecating the entire debate from here on out. Everything that is offered, it is not secured by a vote of revenue, you have accepted two readings of revenue and two votes. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has decided that a third vote may also take place on this issue. Therefore, I propose that in my speech now, then I do it as a procedure when we are done with the Law, before the paragraph that says when it enters into force, that we interrupt the sitting, then recalculate on the accepted expenses how much the revenue should be and § 1 reschedule tomorrow morning in order to be in harmony with the entire Bill on the budget of the DVO. And by recalculating it and by looking at it, to bear in mind that all measures that concern recalculation or long-term policies must enter into force from 1 January 2022. And the measures that are single in dealing with the crisis can now come in. Therefore, 1.35 can safely enter from 1 January 2022 because it is a long-term measure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u456	Mr. Tsonev, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u457	Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u458	Thank you. Are there lines? I won't. For a line? Mr. Yordanov is ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u459	I'm speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u460	Yeah, yeah, for a statement. Mrs. Manolova, are you speaking?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u461	Today, at the adoption of the budget, it's a really nice day because all masks are falling off. It was DPS day of revelation. On the one hand, Mr. Tsonev admitted that there is a majority of the parties of the status quo and they are engaged as he put it. On the other hand, Mr. Ademov said it didn't matter what experts decided in the Budget Committee because the decisions were political...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u462	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u463	You said that "You said it was political decisions and the experts were in the Commission, but the parliament decided and there were political decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u464	You're just finding him?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u465	At the moment, GERB and DPS are clearly sabotaging the budget and the finance minister, accepting everything that is inflated, no matter what happens. If there's any problem, it's that BSP is actively involved in this whole setup. So really stop talking here that there is no majority in this Parliament, since from now on you have enough MPs to impose an unfulfilled budget of a government that you don't like to claim later that it is not doing well, or any next government. [[pointing from the middle block to the left]] You've got a line. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u466	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. First line. Mr. Bikov, are you for a line? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u467	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Yordanov, because you looked at me and so I take a line to fulfill your expectation. There is no majority, we are in opposition and you are in opposition even so you announced. It's just that the opposition in this Parliament has more MPs than the government, whoever they are. There are no drivers. And that's why we warned you last week what was going to happen. To understand, I'll give you an example. Mr. Vasilev and Mr. Radev, as some young children wanted to see what would happen if they reached into the socket with a wire. And it's what's going on. The electricity hits them. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Now we are static observers of this process in which they are wondering what to do. And that's why the caretaker government has never introduced an update. If they had said here: we want to continue these and these measures, which are set out in the budget anyway, we know that the budget's expenditure is 47%, implemented by the middle of the year, so there are still 53%. In short, there's money. But we want to continue these measures and these measures. If they had come to the various parliamentary groups to explain their attitude, then we wouldn't have stood by and watched you wonder who is opposition and who is ruling, given that, again I say, you yourself have declared that you are opposition. How is it that as an opposition you now support the caretaker government? This is also a paradoxical situation. The opposition does not normally vote on the government's trust and we do not vote on the trust of this caretaker government. We have therefore made our proposals, which are alternative to the proposal of the caretaker government, defend them from the stand and vote for them. I don't see anything surprising in this situation? That our proposals are passing is already the problem of this Parliament, which has failed in its main task...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u468	Mr. Bikov, your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u469	...to broadcast control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u470	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u471	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Dear Mr. Yordanov, it is the easiest answer to you that when looking at the budget and when it comes to social payments, it is most logical to have a majority of political parties who are involved in a particular problem. Only this time I consciously don't want to get away from the prosecution. I'll tell you why engagement, marriage, are you together, how are you? Because for six months we've been listening to these spells on the right hand: we're going to elections now, we're not going to do with them, they're going to be in the corner, they're the bad guys, they're the bad guys, they're the bad guys, they're the bad guys, they're the bad guys, they're the bad guys, they're the guys, and we're standing there and we're saying, well, yeah, they don't want to do it with us, they're not gonna do it. Who authorized you, those parties out there that don't have 121 deputies, to determine who's gonna do what with whom? Isn't it right if the country needs reforms, if the country needs to do something, to put it on everyone the people have sent to this parliament? Whoever wants to make these reforms is signing and participating, who does not want the opposition. The parties without the DPS, without the BSP, then we saw that it didn't work with three parties, let's let the BSP come, right? And you expect us to continue to stand in the corner and say, yes, yes, yes, we did not get engaged so, no. Let me tell you what we're gonna do so there's nothing vague about what you want to say. In the next parliament we will do what we have been sent here to have a government that cannot do it, will not do it, which can do it. Party of status quo and change, this song has sung. We've seen, if you like, keep singing it. We're not gonna sing it! We will make a government if we have enough representation based on reforms based on a real programme, what the country needs. This guy's in, that guy's out. Who authorized you to participate and who will not participate? [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u472	Third line, Mr. Babikan. [[Reply by MP Martin Dimitrov.]] He raised his hand before you. [[(Noise and cue:) It is not true that it is before it.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u473	Madam President, fellow Members, my line is, of course, to Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Yordanov, for all this time, you couldn't help but realize that these people are doing this because we're on our way to contact, they're trying to protect us, and that should have been clear by now. Either way, they're guarding us from our own madness. In any case, these people vote in this way because, as the honourable Mr. Bikov said earlier in his previous speech, we called them a mafia organization, so now they are raising us. They're our educators and educators. We are little children, and for this reason we have come here to be brought up and trained how to spin like a fish is as comfortable as it is and not for what they have sent us for. Well, this marriage is normal. See, even Mr. Tsonev resents that they don't dictate the agenda because, you see, they don't have the first place to do some office for a term of office. And next time they'll do it. And they will no longer stand in the corner and sniff and answer the question whether Delyan Peevski managed accidentally with Boyko Borisov? They won't answer that question! And I support them, too. They don't have to answer that question. We all know the answer. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u474	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. [[Noise and line.]] Mr. Yordanov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u475	A hole for Mr. Bikov. I'm sorry you don't understand that when a matter is complicated... [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u476	Mr. Manev, may I ask you to be quiet?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u477	...decisions and proposals should come from experts, not from people like you and me. To Mr. Tsonev. Today... [[Noise and lines.]] That's my ass. Mr. Tsonev, thank you very much. You really are an honest man today. I am glad that this is the case, and it is good that everyone understood that in the next Parliament.. no matter what the position of the forces is, there is already a coalition between GERB and DPS, brutal. These are two parties that are toxic according to the Bulgarian society, and here will be extremely interesting the position of BSP will it stick to these two parties to make a cabinet? Otherwise, there has already been a small majority of what the last ten years have had. Congratulations, guys! It's a good thing you're not hiding anymore! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u478	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Martin Dimitrov to speak. [[Noise and lines.]] They've been recorded before you, Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov.]] What does it mean before you?! Here they are... [[Reply from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov: "Don't overdo it! "]] I'm not overdoing it, I'm following the order in the way that my fellow Members have stated a wish to speak. [[(Reply from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov:]] Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u479	Dear Mrs. Leading Meeting, I think that a certain order should be observed in the National Assembly and, when a parliamentary group is affected, order should be given. I would also like to say to you because you are also of this majority, which is currently trying to do something: BSP is attached to Bulgarian citizens, it protects the interest of Bulgarian pensioners and votes for 120 BGN. supplement to allow these elderly people to take a breath before the election.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u480	May we hear your procedure in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u481	BSP, Madam President, voted for the proposals of ISN and Mrs Manolova with the same drive so that these people can survive the winter. And don't hook us up with weddings are for you on your meatballs, with notes and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u482	Thank you. [[National Representative Martin Dimitrov wants the floor.]] Mr. Dimitrov, I'm very sorry, but the Minister wanted the floor before Mr. Yordanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u483	Mr. Bikov, I'm sorry if you think we've decided to insert what it was, wire in the contact. I can assure you that this is the furthest thing that hasn't even crossed our mind. What we proposed before it was yet clear whether there would be a formed government, and had all the prospects of having a formed government, we introduced this update before it was clear whether there would ever be a formed government and we hoped that there would be one, with the idea of making it easier in the process to prepare the country for a very severe winter, with a series of crises. There's extra income for happiness. Without parliament's sanctions, there is no way the money from this revenue to the doctors, to get to the pensioners, which we are discussing today and to get to the support business. This update has only one goal: the money we have in the treasury to reach people so that they can face the crisis more easily and I really do not understand and deeply regret that you see this as some football match with agitators. This doesn't have to be a football game with a team! People have sent you here, I think, at least when I voted, I have sent my MP here for one purpose: to take care of Bulgaria and to take care of the good of all people in Bulgaria. Not messing with the wire contact, not measuring who's smarter and who's smarter, and who's gonna make a more nagging trailer here than the stands. And if, indeed, all that has been said that everyone in this Chamber cares about the Bulgarian pensioners, I would ask you before this meeting is dissolved, to tell us in which of the three ways that are mutually exclusive, to take care of them? [[Noise and lines.]] This is my only request to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u484	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Cholakov, you're signed up for a speech after that. [[Noise and lines.]] You're further down. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute. Mr. Dimitrov is entitled to what the Minister has said. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u485	Procedure shall be given immediately in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u486	That's right, Mr. Svilensky is right. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u487	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure in the manner of conduct. To ask Minister Vassilev, we are still in a situation of procedure in which we look at the budget, let us not take part after every MP and tell us what to do, why we were sent, who sent us, what orders our voters have placed on us. We know this, Mr. Vassilev, and it is your job to listen to the MPs, to write down the orders that are sent to us by the voters, and we are assigning them to you, and to carry them out, because if we keep doing so, believe me, we will not end up perhaps by the end of the day. So let the minister take the attitude, but on the budget and not on the future political project, which he is probably already trying to use from this platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u488	What procedure, Mr. Delchev? Procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrov can't take your word for it all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u489	My procedure is very short, Mr. Dimitrov, then the floor is yours. Madam Chairman, please interrupt lawmakers when they go out on the stand without having an answer to a question previously asked by the Minister. The minister asked a question, Mr. Svilensky had no answer, so he went out and talked to a bunch of crazy people that we don't have to listen to. [[noise and lines]] Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u490	Colleagues, with these procedures in the manner of conduct you obviously do not want in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u491	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u492	That's crossing the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u493	Thank you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u494	I give the floor to Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u495	I would like to return the debate to the budget, ladies and gentlemen, because many people said that they protected the interest of Bulgarian pensioners. But let's tell the truth today! There were three different proposals that were mutually exclusive. There was a chance today to vote on an update of pensions, that is, Bulgarian pensioners every month, each year to receive a higher pension. He had an offer like that. And it is very curious that parties that have said that for years they have wanted an update on pensions have failed today's pension update. They supported a proposal, which is for three months for 90 days. We'll call it the 90-day offer. Three months to receive people's pensions. And the interest of Bulgarian pensioners was to have a recalculation, to have an increase in the universal ratio of 1.35, so over 2 million Bulgarian pensioners each month, not just for two months ahead, to receive higher pensions. This, honourable Members, you have failed it and I particularly want to explain to my BSP colleague who claims that this was not the case. You heard what your colleague at the DPS said. He said: "What we propose excludes the government's proposals. That's what the DSS guy told you, and you go and vote on his proposal. He clearly explains it: either mine or the other one, and you chose his, you chose the proposal of DPS and GERB. [[Noise and lines.]] This is what you have chosen, which practically stops the update of pensions and the possibility that Bulgarian pensioners will receive more money each month. The matter must be resolved permanently! Look what happened in the end. GERB introduced that approach to give when someone decides, 50 leva. in a month when someone decides. You, instead of settling this matter permanently for people, have chosen their approach. You chose their approach, stuck to their approach. I wonder now whether Bulgarian pensioners will be satisfied? Well, they're not gonna be happy, guys. People don't want to throw anything at them. They want a lasting solution for every day because the January situation will not be any different from this month of December. The situation in February won't be much different. Therefore, if there is still a chance, because there are three opposing proposals adopted at the vote, my advice to you is, if there is still a chance to accept the update as a lasting solution, such as recalculating pensions, that we accept. [[Noise and lines.]] That's what people will be grateful for. Otherwise, if you like the approach of GERB to give something temporary, for a little while and for a little while your job. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u496	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. First line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u497	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I have a feeling you weren't in the gym today. So far, your parliamentary group, that of.. There is such a people.................. there is such a people......... and this... Stand up BG! They voted against BGN 120. for the Bulgarian pensioners, against 100 BGN. of the Bulgarian pensioners for the upcoming three months, and all the other groups voted for the indexing of pensions with a coefficient of 1.35. Is that a fact?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u498	We voted BGN 370. That's not true. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u499	So now you have three possible options, that is, the Council of Ministers is wondering what to do and that is why the Minister is asking ridiculous questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u500	That's why you don't know what to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u501	Mr. Karimansky, make a statement, make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u502	Mrs. Atanasova, do not engage with the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u503	The President of the Commission, Madam President, replicates from a place which is not correct for the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u504	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u505	Thank you. Mr. Dimitrov, was it populism that the Bulgarian government since August 2020 assists Bulgarian pensioners with 50 BGN. Every month? Because that's what we heard. We heard we were buying votes, that these funds were election funds. Now you were screaming that we were engaged, that this was a marriage, that we provided the Bulgarian pensioners with 120 leva. Or 100 leva. according to our proposal of GERB. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] For as long as people need to face the crisis. As you can see, gentlemen replicating from this House, this measure is clearly, first of all, working, second, approved, once the caretaker government continues to implement it. In this sense, Mr. Dimitrov, I think that the parties who voted for the support of the Bulgarian pensioners are the only reasonable ones in this House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u506	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Second line, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u507	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Let's ease the tension a little bit. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, in the Transitional and Final Provisions will be voted on and I hope that your parliamentary group will support it and there, from 1.2 will become 1.35 coefficient for recalculation of pensions. So don't say things that are about to happen and are about to happen. As for our vote for 120 BGN. Of course we'll support him. Is there anyone in this room or outside of it right now who is not convinced that Bulgarian pensioners are barely connecting the two ends. In addition, measures are targeted and temporary throughout the European Union. When we started making the budget update, wasn't it the idea to update the budget because there was a severe type of crisis, a possible migrant crisis, and there was a severe situation inside the country. That was the whole point of the budget update. What's wrong with the gym today? I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, but someone saying he's a magician and he's found 2 billion, so don't talk like that in the Bulgarian Parliament. Moreover, we are all convinced that there is a chance for much more money than the 2 billion. It's not the point right now in this room to comment on all these things, but you're the person who knows this thing best. I think the parliament has taken a good step forward.. once there is help to Bulgarian pensioners, which is so necessary, and, a second time, I hope there will be exactly this recalculation that is needed. The money, you know it's there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u508	They're mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u509	Therefore, they are not mutually exclusive, because one is three months of aid in relation to the upcoming winter and the mold crisis, and the other is a more permanent measure which is necessary, which BSP has been fighting for years for this to happen. We're glad this happened today. Thank you, colleagues, for taking this step forward.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u510	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Third line, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u511	Mr. Dimitrov, somehow three jackpots ended up in the casino today at the polls. So the question is which one of them are we going to pay, and which one is realistic? What GERB just told you is the pure truth. They once made the proposal for the update drop, and once added 100 BGN and the others added 120 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u512	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u513	In the revenue hour this money has not been added. So these are parts, but let's pass the whole law then. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u514	You can see who wasn't in the gym today.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u515	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u516	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Imagine what a ridiculous situation someone would be saying for years: I want an update on pensions at all costs and Parliament is not doing it here. Now there is an update on pensions, and he does not vote on the pension update, but he votes on a temporary measure -- a few months to have payments to pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u517	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u518	That is what this is about, fellow Members, that you are about to ruin the update of pensions. That's why our parents, the elderly, get an increase every month. Every month they get a higher pension. Because you didn't listen, said it here Hasan Ademov. His proposal excludes the update of pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u519	That's not true, and I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u520	You weren't listening to GERB. They said, "Their proposal rules out the update of the write-offs, but you have to listen. With listening, it's okay. Now what did you end up with? You supported GERB's approach, which is as follows: they give pensioners when they decide on something. Is that fair? Is that fair? We wanted an update in the sense of recalculation and people to get more money every month and who worked harder, to get it, and who has more internship, to get it even more. Because you're ruining it now? Because you're ruining it and you're ruining it. It was something that could have happened today, and you've wanted it for 10 years, 10 years you want it, now it had to happen and you went and supported GERB and DPS. [[Comments from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] Now was the chance. He was about to get up. It was suggested by the office, and you're about to ruin it. Therefore, colleagues, if there is still a small chance, choose the system, choose the pensions to be higher every month, each year. Do not fall for what GERB and DPS give you for two months, for three months. People want security, they want years to get higher pensions. [[Noise and lines.]] They don't have enough promise for two or three months. That doesn't make sense. In Transitional and Final Provisions, choose the real recalculation of pensions so that our parents receive higher incomes each month. Thank you. [[Applause from DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u521	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u522	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u523	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u524	Madam President, I'm surprised here, MPs, all day, over 10 hours, maybe we're sitting, they haven't figured out what they were doing in this room. Mr. Dimitrov, don't you know what you voted for? First term, second term, 100 BGN, 120 BGN, 1.35 coefficient. Don't you know that? BSP supported BGN 1,35 and 120, and BGN 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u525	When do you vote on this?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u526	When there was 139/106, Mrs. Manolova. That's when you didn't vote, and then you came out here to say that you supported him, but lately, then, Mrs. Manolova, 106 votes were against it, and 139 were for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u527	That's not true. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u528	I'm not talking nonsense. You're just ashamed of what you did in art. 1. Mr. Dimitrov, BSP is consistent with the recalculation and now you will have the opportunity to support us with the recalculation if you care so much about the Bulgarian pensioners. Only with lies from this tribune, it won't work. With lies and speculation and hypocrisy from this tribune won't work. Take back your votes, see how you voted, see how the parliamentary group voted and then get out here again.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u529	You didn't understand what you voted for.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u530	I've understood very well, Mrs. Manolova, but you missed the moment, I told you again, no matter how much you posted on Facebook for 650 BGN. This is BSP's proposal, not Maya Manolova's. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry, BSP spent five years explaining to mothers that motherhood should become BGN 650, but you didn't understand that and now you wrote it down. Come out, support BSP for the recalculation, and write it down again that you did it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u531	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u532	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u533	Personal explanation please, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u534	Madam President, I am entitled to a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Please don't shout in the hall. How do you ruin an idea? Well, by supporting three things that can't happen together. After all, there is no update of pensions, there is no need for you to do this. You supported at the same time three things that can't be done together. [[Applause from DB.]] If you had listened, here it is Mr. Ademov, he explained to you that they are incompatible, absolutely incompatible and GERB told you the same. GERB told you honestly that they update and recalculate do not want. They don't want that. That's why they brought in their other offer. But you supported all three. And by supporting them all three, there's no recalculation at the end, there's no update on pensions. I mean, something that you claim to have fought for the last 10 years, today for nothing, you've failed him. That's what this is about, but there may still be another chance at the end of this budget. So I urge you to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u535	Mr. Dimitrov. [[(Displays from DPS: Personal explanation.]] Colleagues, do you want to stop already with these personal explanations and procedures in the manner of conduct, because obviously neither the procedure is in the manner of conduct nor your personal explanations are personal explanations? Let's not fool each other anymore. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u536	This is a violation of regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u537	Mrs. Manolova is scheduled for a speech. Come in, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u538	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Minister! Obviously, the House needs some clarification because neither Mr. Svilenski nor Mrs. Atanasova have understood what has been voted on so far. So let's get this straight... so far changes have been made to the revenue side of the state social security budget, plus 200 million. lv. DPS proposed, plus 200 million. BGN, or a total of 720 million lv. Isn't that right, Mr. Ademov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u539	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u540	In what way these plus 200 million will be spent. BGN, or a total of 720 million BGN, to be voted on now. So, Mr. Svilensky, you didn't vote plus 120 leva. For the pensioners, you didn't bring them in, you didn't vote them out. What has been voted on so far is the revenue of this budget. Now we have to vote on the proposals of DPS for plus 120 BGN, on Stand up BG! We're coming! until the end of the year, because our offer for plus 70 leva. to the minimum pension has already been voted, that is, the BSP has not made a single proposal so far, which has been voted on. Our proposal for a minimum pension of 370 BGN was supported, i.e. plus 70 BGN, and now our proposal for pensioners to receive and plus 50 BGN will be voted on. by the end of this year. That's not the point. Now a decision has to be made. I think that reasonable people also understand it from the DPS, and from the other parliamentary groups, these twice voted revenues plus 200 million. lv. in the budget of state social security in what way to be spent. Our offer is BGN 70. for pensioners by recalculating pensions, which the DPS does not support, plus 50 BGN, which we have proposed and now you will vote for, for the months of October, November and December. Thus, people will have a permanent part of the pension increase that will continue next year. That's what I want to know! The office has offered it and we support it, a recalculation, which is lasting, plus BGN 70. to pensions and we offer plus 50 leva. by the end of this year to receive real pensioners of 120 leva. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] You have the opportunity, Mr. Svilensky, to support these proposals now, because you have not voted them yet. It is a pity that neither you nor Mrs. Atanasova understand at all what is voted in this House. And as far as motherhood is concerned, well done, fellow Members, for promoting them. It is important for the Bulgarian mothers that they are not subject to election use for parliamentary or presidential elections. One cause of Bulgarian mothers, of working mothers, of those who are being provided, became a fact. And yes, it's nothing wrong that we suggested it and that you suggested it, and it has become a fact. So for this: bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u541	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. For a line, Mr. Gokov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u542	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I'm sorry, but I was under the impression that you were the only one who understood what we voted in this room and no one else here is in class. On the contrary, I am telling you: I have been following the budget carefully and I want to tell you that BSP's proposal to recalculate pensions has not been completed so far. [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] I'm going to introduce him to you now, and I hope you'll vote for him and support him. [[Noise and lines.]] The caretaker government's proposal to increase the burden of recalculating pensions has also not passed... to pass, and I hope you will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u543	I'll back him up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u544	I don't know why you criticized us for not knowing what we were voting for.! [[Noise and lines.]] By the way, we took advantage of the DPS proposal in the case of 120 BGN, because we see this as assistance at a crisis time. I don't even know why it's proposed to go into the state social security budget as an add-on to pensions?! Why does it not enter through the Social Assistance Act?! The money will come from a transfer from the state budget anyway. We are careful what we vote and are consistent in our proposals and in our votes. We will not give in to our proposals, you will see.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u545	I'll back them up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u546	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Manolova, would you like to use the back? Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u547	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gokov, it is good that at least one MP is careful. [[Noise and lines.]] So far, what's happened is plus 200 million. lv. in the revenue section of the DEA budget. What has been voted on is our proposal and of the people there is such a people for a minimum pension of 370 BGN. What is to be voted on is the proposal of DPS plus 120 BGN. monthly by the end of the year, but they do not support the update offered by the office, which will also be voted on and which will increase pensions on average by 12.5%.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u548	What about GERB?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u549	And GERB's proposal for plus 100 BGN, which also does not want an update of 12.5%. The proposal, which sums up and best protects the interest of the pensioners, is our proposal because we propose to adopt the proposed recalculation of everyone by 12.5%; there is a minimum pension of 370 BGN. and to those 70 levs that receive pensioners, we propose and will be voting shortly plus 50 levs. by the end of this year. Because neither a horse will end on January 1st, nor the economic crisis! Let's protect the elderly and not do it electionally. [[Noise and lines.]] As regards the proposal to recalculate pensions based on social security income 2018, of course we will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u550	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Personal explanation, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u551	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Mrs. Manolova, why do you now think that if you repeat the same things a hundred times here, colleagues will believe you and Bulgarian citizens will believe you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u552	Because it's true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u553	You've done at least 15 years of budgeting, you know, whatever you bet in art. 1:200 million, 200 million, 400 million, that's what you'll be able to distribute at 7:00 p.m. tonight. What if you had voted against the 200 million of the DPS, against GERB's 200 million, against the 400 million of the government, what would you now distribute?! And you voted against these things?! [[Noise and lines.]] That's why I said you didn't support the 120s, the 100 levs, 1.35. [[Noise and lines.]] In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 what did we vote on?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u554	It's a member first for revenue and we didn't vote on it! Let Tsonev explain!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u555	Mr. Svilensky, what's the personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u556	We voted on it, Mrs. Manolova, at first and second votes, and you missed this vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u557	Article 1 will be voted in the morning. You are not paying attention, Svilenski!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u558	Article 1 tomorrow morning for the third time! That's the third time! The rule of law has been voted twice, and since this thing happened with the two adoptions, we're going to do it a third time tomorrow. You both missed them, I hope, the third time you will join us to write on Facebook: Maya Manolova BGN 120 [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u559	Mr. Delchev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u560	Mrs. Chairman, my procedure is with you because Mr. Svilensky did nothing as a personal explanation. Rather, he kept saying: "First, article one! " Mr. Svilensky, art. 1 in the Constitution is no more. [[Noise and lines.]] I know your attachment to BSP, to it, but it's gone. As for art. 1 in the Law on State Social Security, it concerns revenue, it does not concern expenditure, so there is also art. Art. 2, Art. 3. We are now at § 10, 11 and until these paragraphs pass, you do not know and we do not know exactly what is given to the pensioners. [[Noise and lines.]] Just one more thing to explain. You invited Mr. Minister we have invited him to sit in the Chamber of the National Assembly. [[noise and lines]] You offer him to sit in three chairs, he tells you: tell which of the three chairs to sit. [[Applause.]] You go out and say, "Don't ask me stupid questions, sit in three chairs!" That's what you did! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u561	Mr. Cholakov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u562	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Colleagues, I'd like to calm the tension and say some things of a more general nature that come to my mind following today's discussion. Yesterday was the day of the Unification and we were in Plovdiv the MPs from Plovdiv and other MPs from Plovdiv. We had a lot of opportunity to talk to people on the street. You have no doubt, and your constituents are asking you: do you know what you look like from the outside? [[Replys from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] It's all about you, Mr. Karimansky, you see we're all sinking?! What makes you think there's a winner here?! No, I won't, unfortunately! Man told me: we thought the municipal council was low, but when we look at what's going on in the National Assembly, we're classics. Madam President, all Vice-Presidents and President Iva Miteva I turn to: colleagues, let us use the remaining time and, if we may, try to raise the reputation that we have so ruthlessly destroyed in the last one month and in the last six months as you wish. Colleagues, in today's discussion about the budget I can hardly say anything more than what Mr. Ademov, Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Mr. Yordan Tsonev, said. I would like to look at it through my constitutional perspective and tell Minister Vassilev that in fact the problem is indeed this arrogance with which the caretaker government decided to think visionary and to think conceptually. Colleagues, many officials in recent months have gone beyond their job description and this is the fundamental problem of Bulgarian political life in recent months. I feel purely human regret and understand that young people want to have their own concepts and visions, but their job description does not allow it. Therefore, it comes to this, perhaps, on the one hand, that they, as well said, decided to see whether they could update the budget without being a regular government, without having a majority to support them just like that, because we are very cool, yuppie, we come from the West, to see how we will now make a very cool budget, which will be visionary on top of everything, with the complete ignorance of the elementary constitutional rules in this country, and in every other country. So, since you don't have a majority in parliament and you haven't provided it in advance, you don't have the right to dream, you have the right to perform, you're a clerk. An appointed clerk! If anyone wants to have visions, it can probably be the person who has a direct mandate and has appointed them these people, and this is President Radev, to come here to the National Assembly, but unfortunately his term expires, so he has no right to think visionary too. I've been thinking about what Mr. Bikov said that they've reached with the wire in the socket and are currently being electrocuted. Is this not intentional, fellow Members, to bring an update of the budget by an absurd service government in an absurd way in a parliament that cannot produce a majority in order for this current to flow through both countries? Because, you know, sometimes when you reach with the wire in the contact, it can hit you, but it can burn the main fuse, and right now the main fuse is the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't know if you can see him.! I would like to conclude with this, to appeal, because there must be some solution, there must be some way out of this situation in which to preserve parliamentaryism, because at the moment I think the main fuse is burning, to maintain some respect for the caretaker government, the officials in the caretaker government, because they are also entitled to it. I think, Mr. Vassilev, that the best that you can do is with some humility to the people's representation and to your task, because if you blow something, you're guilty. I don't know if you know?! [[Noise and lines.]] The accusations: you will either vote on our update, or you will not, as your colleague said, an astonishing arrogance, by the way. Amazing! [[Noise and lines.]] We're not gonna burn, you're gonna burn. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u563	Well, we'll see in the end!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u564	Yeah, yeah, we'll see. Life is long, there's time for everything. There's a time to collect stones, there's a time to throw stones away, you know?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u565	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u566	I'm finishing up, guys. My point was, my proposal is to accept Mr. Tsonev's offer. Let's finish our debate now, but let's leave the vote for § 1 for tomorrow morning, when we'll all have a clear brain. Meanwhile, Minister, do the maths of what can go on, what can happen, what cannot happen, given all the proposals of the people's representation, with responsibility to the country, not to their own ego and to their own career. Everyone's career right now depends on how much they can humble their own egos. I don't know if we understand that.! [[Heckling]] That's my suggestion: let's have our debate, let's vote on § 1 tomorrow, and you, Minister, sleep on it and think about it: your ego or your country. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u567	Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u568	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Cholakov, I agree with your statement with some principle differences and perhaps additions that you should have made. You quoted colleagues Ademov and Tsonev. You forgot to quote something else to Mr. Ademov, who said that this budget update and what we are doing are anti-crisis measures, that the proposal for the three months by the end of the year is anti-crisis measures and that we are here supporting anti-crisis measures. Someone wants to talk about long-term policies. These are some who have failed this National Assembly and the 45th National Assembly. Yes, people do not want temporary measures, they probably do not want temporary parliaments, but it is a fact. This Parliament is ending. And the question, Mr. Karimansky, which concerns you most, is who actually failed the 46th National Assembly, the first term? Who? Who came out on Wednesday to talk here not about politics? One Wednesday, you know. One Wednesday they did not talk about policies, about updating pensions, about increasing incomes, about economic growth, but they talked about ministerial chairs. One Wednesday! And that's where the 46th Parliament ended, and now we're talking anti-crisis measures by the end of the year. After that, being in the 47th National Assembly and creating strategic long-term policies, he will implement them and ask them. That's the principle. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u569	Another line? Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u570	Mr. Cholakov, that's right, it's good to lower our voice, but we're voting. And this turglugwech that's been done today, maybe tomorrow we'll have a chance to sort it out. And we have the responsibility. I don't think the minister will need the ego because he doesn't show up for the election. [[Noise and lines.]] And to tell you the truth, everyone has a right to dream. I'm sorry if there's only one person who dreams about you, but let everyone dream about it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u571	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u572	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u573	No. Thank you. Mr. Vassilev, you started with personal explanations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u574	Mr. Cholakov, I just want to say two words. The first is that what the Ministry of Finance does is to provide the financial resources and to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to decide how to use this resource in a possible update. The second thing I want to tell you is that what the office has offered is not the business office's whim. This went through Tristraca, with employers' organizations, with trade unions all supported it. They all supported him! This is a continuation of a policy since 2015, when it is assumed that the increase in pensions will be done in this way by increasing the coefficient. In fact, as much as I'm sad, I can't say there's something visionary that we've suggested. We have simply implemented a policy that has been set since 2015, and now we have the financial resources to implement it. That's what the office suggested. No big visionary stuff, nothing. We just have the money to take care of the doctors, the pensioners and the business at this difficult time and this is the philosophy of update. We brought it in on the day when Parliament was constituted, was adopted by the Council of Ministers before Parliament was constituted, so neither did we have the ambition to implement this programme. We just had the ambition to help the next government to be two steps ahead, to be ready for the crisis, and already on the basis of it bet its policies and its vision. Believe me, I have a vision for Bulgaria and it is very different [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] , but it is not at stake in this budget update precisely because as a caretaker government we do not have, as you said, the right to bet long-term visions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u575	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Now Mr. Cholakov, an opinion from a group, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u576	But I knew it, colleagues, there's a vision man, there is. We wish him to appear in elections, win, sit here in a parliamentary group and stand up for his vision. Just as an appointed clerk, again, you can't. Colleagues, I think the BSP returned the mandate two hours ago. Parliament is over. I don't know if you remember, at the end of the 45th Parliament in exactly the same hysterical way we adopted the Election Code, but of life and of death, and we voted on things that we didn't finally know what was voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u577	Oh, that's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u578	Ah, did we know, Madame Chairman?! Okay. [[Noise, lines and laughter by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u579	And the election went very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u580	The elections went great, we have open topics that you know very well, yet we will not close them, because right now instead of solving the problems of the Election Code, we are opening new budget problems. The only comforting thing I can say at the end of this speech, colleagues, Mr. Kiril Ananiev, we talked earlier, promised that in January he would prepare a new budget update to minimize all the nonsense that we will do today and in the next days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u581	It will have a new budget, Mr. Cholakov. I give the floor to Tsetska Bachkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u582	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I see that the election bid is running with great power, I see that you're already running an election campaign, only it's nice to wait a few more days. "Democratic Bulgaria" from the very beginning, at the first examination of this budget, we said that we would support the proposal of the caretaker government because we are talking about an update that concerns three months. You, gentlemen, MPs from different groups, are trying to make reforms that require much deeper debate, trying to bring into this budget update topics that have not been affected at all, and I want to call for reason. Let us not do damage that we are wondering how to fix, let us still be sensible to support the update that concerns the completion of this calendar year, and when we comment on the next budget, God forbid, in a stable Parliament, we can talk about pension insurance reform, we can talk about a number of other reforms. I'm sure when we look at the state budget tomorrow or the day after, God forbid, from now on I can imagine what suggestions there will be. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u583	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u584	Let us be reasonable because the Bulgarian pensioners really expect what was promised to them, namely those 50 levs, which they could not rely on long-term and who really received as charity and as a one-time solution. Let's still do what we owe them, let's do it and not get into election controversy, because right now we're really making a fool of ourselves, leading our election campaign here and risking ruining the budget update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u585	Thank you, Mrs. Bachkova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u586	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachkova, thank you for that speech. As we have been talking today all day, the entire Bill and all we have proposed are exactly anti-crisis measures. I regret that your statement is a total counterpoint of Mr. Martin Dimitrov's statement. I do not know how you agreed in your parliamentary group, because he says that we should think about permanent measures for pension reform what you say we should not do right now. So, yes, welcome to GERB's position that anti-crisis measures should be adopted by the end of the year and already with the next regular government, or whatever there is next government in the next parliament, to conduct a pension reform. This is what we have been talking about since the adoption of this bill, this is the basic idea. Thank you for finally understanding that. No, as another representative of your parliamentary group has said, now is the time to make the entire pension reform and fix it from here for decades. By the way, how did you vote the three hundred and seventy leva? How did you vote on all the other measures that are long-term for years to come, when you are opposed to such measures being in this budget? I just want this simple question answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u587	Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u588	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Bachkova, I absolutely welcome what Mr. Gajev said, and I am pleased with your speech. Unfortunately, there is obviously no good communication in your parliamentary group, even in your parliamentary group, as many of the Bulgarian voters expected there to be one among the parties of change, protest and so on. Unfortunately, we see that even with a budget it cannot happen. Unfortunately, some people's astronaut dreams went through reality and did not come true. I was impressed by your statement about the 50 levs that Bulgarian pensioners receive from the beginning of the year thanks to the government of GERB and you accept them as charity. No, we should not treat Bulgarian pensioners with disrespect. It is precisely in times of crisis that it is important to adopt this update in Parliament as well. If there was one thing we agreed on, we would do the temporary measure, with 100 leva. support the Bulgarian pensioners. Here the parliament accepted even a little more, but the most gathered the proposal of GERB 100 BGN. So I don't see why you're not supporting it, but you're going in a diametrically opposite direction, given that you're partly stating your support to the office, and you're identifying that it shouldn't be making long-term policies. That is precisely what the call of the perhaps more sensible part of the parliamentary groups that we are calling for. GERB-SDS all day, and from the beginning of the submitted budget, this is what we are talking to you, so if you vote on your conscience, obviously what you have, you will support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u589	Thank you. Third line, please, Mr. Stanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u590	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Against the backdrop of trying to update the most important law in the country, especially in these complex times, the economic and pandemic in which we live, we started here to use Parliament, this holy institution in general for the Bulgarian state, as a place for election campaign. My line is to Mrs. Bachkova. You didn't understand something, and maybe this whole part of parliament didn't understand it. Today we didn't just have an engagement, we had the beginning, Mrs. Bachkova, of a new love political game, with very old roots. However, I want to tell GERB, BSP and DPS that in foreplay, when there is very large adrenaline and strong emotions, it usually comes to premature completion in this foreplay. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u591	Mr. Stanev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u592	So please, please! I ask you very much not to witness after the election of your premature political ejaculation. [[Noise and lines. Laughter at ISN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u593	Mr. Stanev, I'm making a note! [[Noise, lines and laughter at IHN.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u594	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, I'm surprised you didn't understand what I meant. We speak absolutely one language with Mr. Dimitrov and we have said it even during the first reading of this law. We support the proposal of the caretaker government - those 50 levs that you gave, yes, as charity, and you did not want to do as a permanent part of the pension, you did not want to make a permanent measure of this thing. We support the proposal of the caretaker government these 50 leva. to be received by pensioners in the amount of their pensions. We are opposed to continuing to deceive pensioners with monthly handouts on which they do not know how long to rely. However, this is far from the real pension reform, and we said it the first time. Pension reform must be much deeper and it takes time. Therefore, at the first stage we support the proposal of the caretaker government to update the pensions, so these 50 BGN. to be received for sure by the pensioners, not as a handout.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u595	Thank you, Mrs. Bachkova. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u596	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Dear colleagues, for about an hour and a half we are almost not talking about the substance of the paragraph we are discussing. We talked about love, we talked about astronautics, we talked about electrician, we talked about everything, but we don't really talk about things anymore. I think everything was heard by all the parliamentary groups at the beginning when we discussed the paragraph in question. Only Mr. Stanev will open a clamp as he speaks of a different type of love. I remember here when you wanted the quick procedure for changing the boss of BNB, when your quick love with the DPS tried to do so, but failed and since then it seems to me that you are walking with a slightly expanded walk. [[Laughter, lines and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u597	Mr. Mirchev, what is your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u598	But I still need to get back on the subject. Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal to put an end to the debate on this paragraph, to go that way, and I am sure that we will have the opportunity to talk about other things that excite Mr. Stanev, for example, by the end of the adoption of the budget. And another sentence, Madam President. People outside this building don't care how their incomes get raised. They're interested in raising their incomes. And right now, there are a lot of pensioners who are pretty sure they're thrilled in front of the TV and they're wondering if they're gonna take those 120 levs. By the end of the year? And then hopefully there will be enough political will to really make their income normal. Thank you and I ask that the procedure be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u599	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov. Are you doing reverse procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u600	By procedure we really do not have the debate on the substance, but we are having a debate about this person from the BSP explaining sexual techniques, given that for years they have been involved in a threesome...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u601	Mr. Yordanov, what is your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u602	...and they love them on this side and on the other side. [[Loud noise and lines. Applause by IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u603	Mr. Gazhev, did you want to do the reverse procedure? [[Heckling]] Yeah, we should be putting up red dots now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u604	Dear Madam President, I hope that the people with their sexual experience will end so far. Still, there are plenty of other speeches that have been recorded. If we are to cease, at least those who have signed up and made a statement should have the opportunity to speak. It's my reverse procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u605	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u606	And let's stop talking about who's learned what in private.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u607	Thank you. There is a record of Ramadan Atali and Dessislava Atanasova. If you wish, I will put the voting procedure to end the debate after the speeches of Mr. Ramadan Atalay and Dessislava Atanasova. Please, a voting regime to end the debate following the speeches of Mr. Atalay and Dessislava Atanasova. Vote 187 MPs: 165, against 20, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u608	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I wanted to take the floor a while ago. When I heard that it was about cable and contact, as I am dealing with energy, I decided to take the floor and tell you that people who are dealing with energy are much more serious than you who are dealing today with raising pensions and adopting the budget of the DVO. My fellow Members, I have been in this Parliament for a long time. I have not allowed myself to take the floor on topics on which I have not been involved, at least in committee discussions. But today the whole Bulgarian society has become clear as follows and I will say a few truths about Yes, Bulgaria and No, Bulgaria and those who read but do not understand what they have read. Mr. Dimitrov is coming out today and explains how and in what way we do not make policy and will not update the budget, but will only give 120 leva. The pensioners for the last three months. In fact, what the specialists explain is Mr. Ademov and all the others who deal with this matter. Mr. Dimitrov could not understand that we are adopting a crisis budget and even more difficult for the minister to get into class. [[Laughter and excitement.]] However, by adopting the crisis budget, we say to you: vote for 120 BGN. for the last three months, our pensioners will receive those funds that are necessary, because the next thing you will vote is a recalculation of pensions, which you also voted in art. 1. And you didn't understand that either! Dear colleagues, not only Mrs. Maya Manolova, previously there was a large group of so-called nationalists who wanted to raise people's pensions every day. We offered £600 back then. to be people's pensions. If you had accepted them, things would have been completely different today. So, colleagues, let's go back to the gym. Those behind the screen have talked for many years on TV today to be clever about who will be able to say how much more nonsense, you know: we can say even more. [[Radio and laughter.]] May I? Of course. Can you come with torn jeans to parliament? Maybe, but you shouldn't! Can a guy who threw his jacket on his shoulder like he just threw away the gega, edifying journalists and MPs? [[Radio and laughter.]] Maybe, but you shouldn't. Can you win elections with posters without faces and then make faces here? Yes, of course. [[Applause from DPS.]] Dear colleagues, this room is a very serious place. Today we decide the fates of many pensioners who have long been waiting to receive what they have worked for. BSP once wiped out their pensions, then democracy led by Martin Dimitrov and a number of others who couldn't stabilize the pension system, and you who are trying to come to the pedestal and make jokes about the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[(Laughter) Claps by DPS.)]] But to be serious, let's vote on the next paragraph. There to confirm 120 leva. to receive our pensioners. Let us vote as it is written and recalculation of pensions, which will enter into force from January 1st, Mr. Martin Dimitrov. Mrs. Bachkova, who was, she understood things more than you did, Martine. [[Laughter and applause from DPS.]] Once we vote on this paragraph, let's move on to the end of the DEA Act. If there are any discrepancies, I'm going to ask you to come back here tomorrow morning with all of us from opposition so that we can pass a working law. [[Laughter]] Otherwise, with the wittyness, with the wires in the socket...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u609	Mr. Atalay, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u610	Thank you. ...with 220 volts that shakes us here today, I hope it's not 20,000 volts tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u611	Thank you. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u612	Madam President, Mr Minister! Mr. Atalay, first of all, thank you for giving me the right name, which is a good start to talk about. But you know, I'm asking myself this question. You say: there is no money for permanent recalculation of pensions, there is only money for an anti-crisis measure. Okay, so why is there a cold reserve for years, and there's no money to solve the pension problem permanently? [[Applause from ICN and DB.]] Why is there money for this, and for a permanent increase in pensions there is no money?! Why is there 8.7 billion for inhouse orders, and for permanent recalculation of pensions there is no money?! Why, Mr. Atalay? And we from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria could, according to your example, say: one offered with 100 BGN. raising the pension by the end of the year. The addition, the other 120, we offer 150 BGN. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what we could have done. But we didn't, and we said we wanted a lasting solution. We want a recalculation and therefore we supported the office's proposal so that people can permanently receive higher incomes. That's what you didn't understand! But people know this: Bulgarian pensioners know that politicians love to give them for two or three months of money so they can stop them. When the elections pass, stop the money, which is the most vicious practice. Therefore, now and today, colleagues, we have the chance for a lasting solution and the lasting solution is the fair solution. The other, unfortunately, is small bills that make no sense. Thank you. [[Applause from DB and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u613	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Second line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u614	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Member of Parliament! Dear Mr. Atalay, I did not listen to you very carefully, but I heard from you a sentence: BSP deletes pensions. I don't know what you mean. I think that you have been in this Parliament long enough, including in 2007, when with the mandate of the DPS managed the Triple Coalition, which only dared to update pensions by recalculating them with the average income for 2007. If this recalculation had not been done, can you imagine what the pensions of these pensioners would be from that time?! It's hard for me to imagine how they would live with such a recalculation. BSP is consistent in its policies towards pensioners and no one has the right to neglect this thing because people outside see that we are, again I say, consistent and people who offer solutions in the pension system. If you are not confident, the Transitional and Final Rules of the Law will come soon when you will hear our proposal again. It is adequate to the situation, it does not exclude the proposal of the caretaker government and is a solution for a very large part of the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u615	Thank you. Third line? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u616	There won't be a third line, but still the first one wasn't clear enough. The BSP colleague I respect him as an expert in the social sphere because he remembers since 2007, and I remember a little bit further back, so I don't want to get into an argument about how and how pensions were deleted. But for the long-term solution, what Mr. Martin Dimitrov wants all pensioners to hear: the long-term decision today decides on BGN 64. By the end of the year, give every pensioner. [[Reply: "Middle. "]] On average, £64. Our offer is 120 leva. Dear pensioners, support Mr. Martin Dimitrov. [[Laughter and applause from DPS.]] Next thing I know, Mr. Dimitrov, you don't understand from a cold reserve. It's not enough that you've been chairman of the Energy Commission for four years and you couldn't understand what energy is, now let me tell you about the cold reserve. This is according to a European directive that says that either we should have 20% of the installed cold reserve base capacities, so was the Law, or 1200 megawatts. If Mrs. Petkova is here, she is guilty because from 1200 megawatts she reduced the cold reserve to 600 megawatts, bearing responsibility on her own. That's why it's about the cold reserve, the security of the system. It's not about your safety, it's not about what you're talking about all the time. If you go to TPP Varna, you will see how and how there is a new enterprise.......................innovated but with private funds and not your protection for those American plants to which the Bulgarian community pays 700 million each year for their emissions... the contracts you signed them. And what we DPS proposed December was to end negotiations and talks, not to pay those billion and 600 million to US power plants. And those 26 million who gave them as a cold reserve, compared to a billion and 500 million those who are paid, to tell you that today the pensioners not only those 64 BGN, not only those 120 BGN, which we are currently offering, would be taking more than 120 BGN. On top, but you don't know how to rule. Give us the energy and you'll see what it's about! [[(Loud noise. Laughter. Revelations: ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u617	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mrs. Atanasova, do you want the floor? No. We call off the debate and move on to the vote. A proposal from Maya Manolova and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 213 MPs: 43, against 112, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. [[National Representative Maya Manolova wants a re-vote.]] Is that a rewording, Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u618	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, this is the proposal that 50 BGN offers. Plus... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u619	Mrs. Manolova, the first proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u620	... on pensions until the end of this year.. for October, for November and for December plus 50 BGN, which with those plus 70 BGN. for the update, make 120 leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u621	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u622	Just because you don't keep track of what's voted on in this room. That's why I'm specifying. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u623	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u624	That's plus 50 leva. for the pensioners. Support them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u625	Thank you. It's a rethink mode. They voted 211 MPs: 40 against 121, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. Vote 218 MPs: 122, against 93, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from DPS.]] We are going to vote on Dessislava Atanasova's proposal and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 218 MPs: 57, Against 99, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of the importer, as in the text before that. 1 words are deleted, only they will not be erased because of Mustafa Karadayi's proposal so that an importer text, along with the proposed proposal, will be deleted. Vote 212 MPs: 204 against 3 abstentions 5. The motion is accepted. "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u626	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of the division: Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Maya Manolova and a group of MPs: In § 12, the following is inserted: 1 with the following text: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 53 the following amendments and additions are made: In Al. 1 sentence 1 is finally a comma and is added to not less than the minimum monthly salary established for the country. The remaining points shall be renumbered accordingly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: I'm sorry, In § 12 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. Paragraph 7g shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions: .................................................................................. (1) Employment pensions granted until 31 December 2017 shall be revalued from 1 October 2021 and the individual person's coefficient shall be multiplied by the country's average monthly social security income for 2018, after which the pension amount shall be determined under the conditions and under the terms of art. 70, 75 and 79. (2) The recalculation of pensions under para. 1 shall be carried out if this is more beneficial to the person. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: § 12 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Deliana Pesheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 70, para. 1 is amended as follows: 1 The amount of the retirement pension and age shall be determined by multiplying the income from which the pension is calculated by a percentage: 1. 1,35 for each year without conversion and the corresponding proportional part of that percentage for the months of insurance service without conversion; 2. 1.2 for each year of insurance service and the corresponding proportional part of that percentage for the months of insurance service, representing a difference between the total insurance service that is respected by the person and the internship under this heading. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75, para. 1 the number 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the number "0,4494' is replaced by "0,5056'; (b) c. 2 the number "0.3932' is replaced by "0.4424'; (c) c. 3 the number "03,3371' is replaced by "0,3792'. 4. Paragraph 7f shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions: It's 7 o'clock. (1) Start-up insurance services, including pensions, shall be revalued from 1 October 2021 by a percentage of 1,35 per cent for each year without conversion and the corresponding proportional part of that percentage for months of insurance service without conversion. The pensions for occupational accident and occupational sickness granted with an initial date up to 30 September 2021 including shall be calculated from 1 October 2021 with the corresponding coefficient referred to in art. 79, para. 1. (2) The recalculation under para. 1 shall be carried out without changing the income from which the pension is calculated, after which it shall be updated, revised and indexed according to the regulations in force from the date of granting it until 30 September 2021 inclusive. (3) Recalculation of pensions under para. 1 shall be carried out if this is more beneficial to the person. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: There's a new §... I'm sorry, Paragraph 1 of paragraph 6 of the transitional and final provisions of the Social Security Code (not applicable, SG No. ...) is amended as follows: s (1) From 1 January 2019 to 30 September 2021 the maximum amount of one or more pensions received without additives shall be set at BGN 910. From 1 January to 30 June 2019 and from 1 July 2019 and from 1 July of each subsequent calendar year to 40 per cent of the maximum monthly amount of the social security income determined by the State Security Budget Act for the year concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u627	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the debate for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u628	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! I would like to make an editorial proposal in relation to the entire debate that we have been having and in relation to what we said during the debate that the anti-crisis measure is not the long-term recalculation of pensions and the change of the coefficient, and this is a measure that must be done, absolutely must be done and not by September, and not by an office, nor by a parliament that has no majority. In this regard, we propose that all these calculations, where the dates 1 October 2021 are recorded, be replaced by 1 January 2022, i.e. from 1 October there will only be a payment of...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u629	120 leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u630	Yeah. Anti-crisis measure. It's a long-term policy. What we were explaining at the very beginning. The same will be proposed after this and for § 13. I think we're consistent. And so we will have the opportunity then the adjustment of the revenue side to be implemented. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u631	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u632	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! I fully understand that everyone is tired and after such a long meeting you expect us to end, but unfortunately, this will not happen. Here in the Transitional and Final Provisions with § 12, with a change of the Social Security Code, the proposal of the Office and our proposal is also commented on the indexation, the translation of pensions, which cannot be passed without debate or at least explain what this is about. The policies on updating pensions are extremely important. Apparently, the ones that have been applied so far do not produce results. That is why BSP appealed for another approach, another logic, another consistency, sustainability and, of course, trust in the pension model. A new approach that does not violate the basic principle for pensions to be released and paid according to the insurance contribution. In full compliance with this is our alternative proposal, it is not an alternative one, but our proposal to recalculate pensions. It shall be limited to the employment pensions allocated by 31 December 2017 to be recalculated from 30 October 2021 and the individual proportion of the person multiplied by the country's average monthly social security income for 2018, after which the pension amount shall be determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Social Security Code. [[(Reply from the hall:) Slow down! Slow down!]] There is no point in slowing down, because the proposal is known. And the recalculation of pensions shall be carried out only if it is more favourable to the person. Short, precise and clear: recalculation of all pensions granted by the end of 2017. Required amount: 188 million lv. monthly. Here, without deluding anyone, I argue that the approach to recalculating and updating pensions offered by the caretaker government is also adequate. They propose recalculation to take place on the basis of a change in the burden of the coefficient of one insurance year, replacing it from 1.2 to 1,35 also an adequate proposal. Now I want to tell you that both proposals have their disadvantages and their advantages. The advantage of our proposal is that the pensions granted before 2008 receive a significant increase, but a disadvantage is that those granted after 2008, especially those that will receive less increase, and those after 2019 will not receive any increase. I don't hire to say how many these people are. Here and the Minister quotes some figures, and Martin Dimitrov quotes some figures, I cannot confirm them. However, in the government's proposal to increase the burden of 1.35 has a significant disadvantage because it deprives earlier pensions in time of a significant increase. This is due to the fact that they retired under other conditions. For example, those who were granted 25 years ago have retired in due service. If you remember, people were forced to retire because there was an imperative text in the Labour Code that made them quit their jobs. Thus, their burden will be calculated over 25 years, and the new pensioners will be calculated over 35 years, because pensions are already going there. This will even more open the scissors between old and new pensions, which is unacceptable. For me, the best proposal in this case is to implement both measures at the same time. Therefore, our proposal does not in any way exclude the office's proposal. I would call on you to support both. We have told the money for our part of the claim where it will come from through a transfer from the state budget. As for whether there will be funds for the simultaneous implementation of the two, which is the fairest, I put again, and is a stable and lasting solution to the issues of the adequacy of pensions, the Minister of Finance will say. I argue that this approach with pensions, which has led us astray now, at the moment, and BSP is taking advantage of this, because we are looking at these 120 levs, which we voted at the moment as helping pensioners in times of crisis. I do not understand why GERB in 2019 or in 2020 you put this money in the budget of state social security as an add-on to the pension and did not do it as support to pensioners in times of crisis?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u633	The weather, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u634	I'm coming. That's why right now we're wandering around trying to figure out who else he's gonna give to the pensioners. If it was like aiding in times of crisis, yes, okay, here we look at it as such, so we approach the updating of pensions in this way, offering this recalculation compared to the average income for 2018 and supporting the government's proposal to increase the burden of one year of insurance service to 1.35.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u635	Thank you. For lines? I can't see. For other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u636	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! I think we're now on the most important part of the Public Security Budget Act. I would like to return you just a few months ago, honourable Members, to the 45th Assembly, when we were all in this Chamber, then we were again the same parties, by the way, we supported this bill in the first vote, thus recalculating the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners against the social security income of 2018. What the government is proposing is good, we support it, we will vote for, but it is not enough. What needs to be done, what must restore justice in the pension system is to recalculate the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners against the insurance income from 2018. This recalculation was last made in 2008, honourable Members. So my request is that everyone remember how they voted three or four months ago at the first vote. You all said from this tribune, again before elections, by the way, because elections were still standing.. you all said that you supported the bill and you did not have enough time between the first and second votes, there should be a committee. Yes, then there was no committee on social policy, now there is a committee, the law is seen at first, at second vote, anyone conscious can support or not support. But let us be honest with our older parents and do as you did at the time....................the first vote. I ask you now to support it in a second vote, so that the justice expected by the Bulgarian pensioners will become a fact and once and for all we can put an end to this dispute, because otherwise after 2 3 months we will again bid 50 BGN, 100 BGN. Minimal, maximum. When there is an element with the ratio raised, when there are recalculated pensions, from now on every government, whatever it is, will know what pensions will have to pay to the Bulgarian pensioners, and most importantly, they themselves will know what pensions to expect from anyone ruling without speculating on their condition. So once again, my appeal, honourable Members, is for you to support the proposal of the BSP parliamentary group to recalculate pensions based on social security income 2018. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u637	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. For lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I'm voting to close the debate, Mrs. Manolova, and we're going to vote. [[Replications by National Representative Maya Manolova]] [[Loud noise and lines. Replies of the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] I put to the vote the name "Concluding provisions." [[Replications of the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Vote 213 MPs: for 212, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 211 MPs: 44, against 87, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, for a motion to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u638	The proposal concerns the second year of maternity [[noise and lines]] , including paying for adoptive parents. Here's the text, look at it at CSR - 650 BGN. motherhood in the second year, including adoptive parents. That's the text. It's not another suggestion. We have already voted ahead, it just becomes clear that it applies to the second year of maternity and to the people who adopted children as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u639	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Please, re-election mode. [[(Comments from GERB:]] Rethinking is the procedure. Vote 162 MPs: 65 against 36, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 164 MPs: 43, against 89, abstention 32 The offer is not accepted. [[Relations of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u640	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, you have one last chance to do something that all Bulgarian pensioners expect. We have a union, and now I see two parliamentary groups, four more to go. We have one last chance to do something useful tonight. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u641	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Please re-vote. Vote 162 MPs: 43, against 88, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 220 MPs: 82, against 104, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the proposal made by Yordan Tsonev, and everywhere in the text Please, voting mode. Vote 164 MPs: 61, against 102, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. Would you like a re-vote? We are re-voting the proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev Vote 164 MPs: 61 against 100 abstentions 3. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 12. They voted 165 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, they abstentioned 26. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 215 MPs: 74 against 133, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Let's move on to the last paragraph. Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u642	I am making a procedural proposal: I propose that we call off the sitting and vote tomorrow from § 13 and then move on to the ZID of the NHIF Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-07.u643	I put to the vote Mr. Karimanski's proposal to put an end to the debate on this bill and to proceed tomorrow with this bill and the NHIF Act. Vote 186 MPs: 128, against 51, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Regular meeting tomorrow at 9 pm. I adjourn the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
