ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register for the last session of the 44th National Assembly. We're waiting for all the coworkers. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. 194 MPs were registered. Dear colleagues, today we have a single point and it is: CLOSURE OF FOURTHRIDES AND FOUR FOUR PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. I will propose a procedure for direct transmission of the meeting on BNT2 and BNR. Please, voting mode. They voted 193 MPs: for 192, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move on to parliamentary group declarations. First has the floor of Dr Daritkova Chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova. Within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The mandate of the 44th National Assembly was not easy. He went through public, political and geopolitical turmoil. In its vicinity, our society faces the challenges of the health crisis caused by COVID-19 and the economic and social consequences of it. Over the past year, thousands of Bulgarians have lost their lives, and millions have been forced to change their way of life and accept what we call a new normality today. In the fight against COVID-19 their lives lost hundreds of doctors, nurses and medical staff. However, the Bulgarian health system was able to withstand pressure and provide treatment for all those in need. This fact is the result, above all, of the efforts of Bulgarian medics who, at risk for their lives and today, continue to treat and help people in need. We must add to them the National Operational Headquarters medics, who, at the beginning of the pandemic, introduced strict measures and thus, with the help of the entire society, we were able to miss the first wave of infection that caused large-scale tragedies in some Western European countries. At times of such trials, Bulgarian society needs unity and understanding. As an expression of the different groups in society, the Bulgarian Parliament is the place where the differences should be outlined, but also to be exceeded. The forty-fourth National Assembly was not always at the level of various challenges. We, as MPs, were not always fully aware of our role as elected not only to represent our constituents, but also to represent the Bulgarian people in its entirety. The latter is a complex task because it obliges us not only to respect, but also to understand the arguments of our political opponents, not only to represent the people who agree with us, but also those who do not. In the last four years in the Bulgarian Parliament, we have often made insults to each other. We often forgot that by insulting our political opponents, we also insult those who voted for them. We often preferred the political comfort of division to the effort to achieve national unity. Nevertheless, we should not miss the moments when we were united. We managed to hold a successful Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which opened the topic of the accession of the Western Balkan countries. The integration of these countries is of strategic importance for Bulgaria and the consensus we demonstrated in the National Assembly on this topic is fundamental to the success of our efforts. We were united when we voted a year ago to introduce a state of emergency, which enabled us to limit the contamination of COVID-19 and thus protected the health system from collapse, as has happened in a number of countries. We were united when we placed education as a major and long-term priority for Bulgarian society and significantly increased the social status of Bulgarian teachers. I am convinced that these efforts of ours were worth it, and in perspective they will produce good results. I hope that in the next Parliament there will be much more fields of consensus. This will depend on the efforts of each MP. Dear colleagues, the problems and challenges facing our country will not go away with election day and the end of the election campaign. With full awareness that in the election campaign every political force seeks to bring forward its differences towards others, I will call on all of you to think about the days after the elections, because it is after the elections that those who will gain the trust of the Bulgarian people will have to bear the responsibility for the country's governance, for the authority of the institutions and for effective dealing with health and economic difficulties. There is no party capable of ruling alone and of being self-sufficient. Therefore, from now on, I will say that from the first days of the next parliament GERB will make efforts to restore normal dialogue between the parties and between the different institutions. We are prepared to lend a hand and work for national unity even at the risk of paying the political price for it. This understanding of us is not self-sustaining. It is dictated by the complex situation that the entire Bulgarian society is facing. In the first days of the next term, along with dealing with the health crisis, we will have to make great efforts to make the most of the Europe Recovery Plan. The next government, regardless of which political forces will be broadcast, will have to manage this aid quickly and wisely so that our economy can begin to recover within an hour. In the coming years, we are to continue our path to the Eurozone, which will ensure the financial stability of the country for decades. We also have an economic transformation that is predetermined by the Green Deal. With all its pros and cons, the Green Deal is a fact throughout Europe, and today the question is not whether we agree or disagree with its parameters, but how to make the best use of it. All these topics and challenges are common to the whole Bulgarian society and hence to all the political forces who wish to represent it. Each of these challenges can be answered only with meaningful and targeted interaction. The risk of failing in these society-wide strategic topics is primarily at stake in our instincts to produce a confrontational environment which, in turn, rejects the possibility of a normal political dialogue. I therefore hope that in the next Parliament we will be able to exceed the close party interest and be able to put above it the interests of citizens, society and the state. Dear colleagues, despite its shortcomings, the 44th National Assembly has succeeded in fulfilling its functions. It broadcasted a government with the mandate of the first political power and thus complied with the attitudes of the majority in Bulgarian society. The ruling majority of GERB and UBB did not allow the vote of Bulgarian voters to be replaced and fulfilled much of the commitments made at the beginning of the term. Together, we have provided a relatively stable political environment in times of global and local turmoil. I am convinced that we could have done much more, but I am also pleased that we did not allow the country to be thrown into chaos and powerlessness in difficult times like today. Therefore, on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group, I would like to thank our partners from the "United patriots" and all MPs who supported our legislative proposals. I also thank the opposition, which, with its criticism, motivated us to be more demanding of ourselves and often look at the mistakes we have made. Last but not least, I would also like to thank all MPs from GERB, who were responsible and consistent enough to ensure the normal rhythm of work of Parliament. Thank you. And God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. A statement from Mrs. Cornelia Ninova is next to be made by Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, Chairman of the BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u4	Dear Bulgarian citizens, the 40th and fourth National Assembly is ending. It's honorable before you give an assessment to others and finally start from yourself and from the beginning. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria....we have four virtues in this Parliament. First, we entered it with a Change Program, for statehood, for improving the quality of life, for combating the parallel state, the backstage and the current model of governance. In the early days we received an offer to abandon this goal of ours, to become part of the model, to hand over almost 1 million Bulgarians against entry into power and personal benefits. We refused.. we remained principled, consistent, faithful to the people who chose us and honest to them. Second of all, we did what we promised. All the commitments made before the elections have been introduced after them as bills in parliament. The family income tax for young families, the reduction of VAT on food and medicines, the reclaim of pensions, the Old People's Act and many others. Thirdly, we did not enter into hidden agreements with power, we did not participate in behind-the-scenes floating majorities agreed on by the cabinet. We remained opposition from beginning to end, despite temptations or pressures at certain times. Fourth, we have become the alternative, not in words, but in work and actions. We have tabled 1323 alternative proposals by law and decision of the National Assembly. We are the political power that you first made and already imposed as a practice the opposition to bring an alternative budget to the National Assembly. We did it four years in a row because we had an overall alternative vision of government management. We have it now. These numbers and facts give us reason at the end of the forty-fourth National Assembly to say that our work as opposition and alternative did well and with care for the people, but the image of each National Assembly is given by the majority. The majority of GERB and UBB official, and the floating majorities with other parliamentary groups, unofficially, rejected our proposals without arguments. The rulers imposed arrogantly, self-indulgently, at times, crossing any line of decency. The rulers have placed six sad features on this Parliament, which have made it one of the least respected institutions in the parliamentary republic. First, instead of controlling the executive power, parliament became a performer of one person's will. This is a harsh violation of the Bulgarian Constitution and the rule of law. Secondly, this majority changed the laws often, and without assessment of the impacts and contrary to any legal thought and legal technique. Dear rulers, in four years you have changed the Law on Medical Institutions 23 times. Apart from vacations and non-work days in the House of Parliament, this means that every 20 days you have amended the Law on Medical Institutions. Absurd in the face of a health crisis! Thirty-one times you've changed the Social Security Code. This means changing every 15 working days. The consequences are chaotic, controversial legislation, inability to plan and predict the economy and the business, investors, uncertainty in the lives of Bulgarian citizens. Thirdly, this majority of GERB and the United Patriarchs will be remembered as one of the most lobbyist. Corruption was at stake in the laws, so it became unpunished. We've analyzed over 50 lobbying amendments to laws. We stood up to them. Some of them we have managed to stop as the uncontrollable logging of forests, the granting of concessions to dams, the remission of obligations of companies to the state. Fourth, the majority of GERB and "United Patriarchs" imposed a style of extreme intolerance and restriction of opposition. The chairman of the parliamentary group was removed from the stand and voted out of a meeting because of the criticism of the prime minister. The word of opposition MPs was taken away, penalties were imposed for no reason, our opinion was muffled with the exclusion of microphones and illegal actions. Fifthly, the leadership of the National Assembly and the ruling majority led parliament into a harsh confrontation and an interinstitutional war with the presidential institution. Leaded by intolerance to President Radev's criticism of the government, you have broken down a basic constitutional principle about the separation of authorities. Sixth, in four years the majority replaced 15 out of 19 ministers in the Council of Ministers because of corruption scandals and incompetence. That is, every 34 working days of parliament, you have replaced one minister. Seven, for all this, the salaries of the MPs were constantly increasing, and the government rejected three times our proposal to reduce them and freeze them by the end of the term. Because of all this, because of this instability and uncertainty, Bulgarian citizens give one of the lowest assessments to the National Assembly. This is extremely disturbing, but also very binding. Bulgaria can be managed differently. Dear Bulgarian citizens, after nine days we decide not only who will become a member of parliament after nine days bet the future of Bulgaria. In these crisis times our country needs visionaries, statesmen, honest people, professionals to lead us through the difficulties and from now on with smart policies to place guarantees for the future development of Bulgaria and our prosperity as a people what we should and can do. We can restore statehood to the institutions to work for people, not vice versa; our personal life is not dependent on the will of a person, but on a working state that guarantees us security and tranquility; access to treatment in which we find ourselves in Bulgaria; our children learn from textbooks, from which they understand what is a family and homeland, and come from a school, to have production and work, incomes and pensions that guarantee us a decent life; Bulgarian land to feed the Bulgarian people; in the 21st century to have access to clean water, clean air, land and forest; entrepreneurial people to have freedom to create industries and jobs; Bulgarian national riches not to waste and distribute for yellow coins; to make a policy in light and before the eyes of all official institutions, and not from hidden circles. There will be justice the same for all. Whoever has broken the laws, whether he is rich and thinks he can buy impunity, or is a politician who thinks he can hide behind immunity. Bulgarian national interest will not be sold for one photo. Our goal, our commitment to you is more a country working with care for the people and for the national interest. No one will be left alone in this crisis. It's not utopia, it's realism. It can happen, and it's up to all of us. Let's raise our heads like decent people and make it possible. Courage and good luck to the Bulgarian people! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. There will be no declaration on behalf of the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We continue with a declaration on behalf of the United Patriarchs. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! It's been four years, and there's been a lot of good and a lot of not-so-good things. I'll start with the unpleasant ones. These four years have been marked by a permanent crisis. They were marked with division and political opposition, which has rarely been in our history, with a constant attempt to bring down the government in order to trigger early elections and an awkward desire not to accept the results of already held ones, with war between institutions, with scandals, with boycott of parliament. The only thing missing in these four years is the consciousness of a common future, of dialogue, of humility before His Majesty's people. This status quo is the status quo of scandal and hatred, which has formed in many Bulgarians the feeling of free fall. It continued to eroticize in them the feeling of statehood and created a common negative sign on the so-called political class of Bulgaria. These disappointed people are ready to welcome Osana with another political messiah, who will surely crucify the cross of their own disappointments very soon. Because constructive things in government happen slowly, require preparation, and results often come not to those who have started them. That's why continuity is important. History is important. I will share in the name of this historicalism what was important what we achieved in this mandate we "United Patriarchs" or at least the parties VMRO and NFSB, which remained to the end in the coalition. It is these things that make sense of our standing in power. Because of them, we put up with the hooligans of power-hungry subjects. Because of them, we also paid with some of our political popularity, but we do not regret it. First of all, this is the breaking of the post-totalitarian political model in the status quo, which has established a three-party model with a large left-wing party BSP, a big right now GERB and ethnic party DPS for balance sheeter. The United Patriarchs have shifted the DPS from the position of balancer and have debalanced this system. Blocking the border with Turkey before the vote in 2017, we prevented another ethnic party from entering the parliament, which was directly subordinate to the neo-OSmanist Erdogan. Thus, for the first time in post-totalitarian Bulgaria national-patriotic formations were officially included in a governing coalition. DSS's attempts to label management as xenophobic and fascist were in vain. So, to a large extent, the European merit of our government is that it has shown patriotism not as a stigmatized ideology, not as something that must sleep in the corner and frighten the so-called normal political forces with it, but as an ideology that shatters the status quo so far liberally, which has brought this same Europe many troubles and is about to turn it into a long-term battlefield of radical Islam. What will be the devastating effects on the psyche of millions of people and society as a whole in relation to the current anti-family, imposing genderism experiment, the same is yet to be seen. Patriot formations can be proud that, for the first time since 10 November, we have broken some liberal consensus, some policies that have been followed as if who is managing. The first is undoubtedly income policy. We've overcome the philosophy of lean pizza, and in four consecutive years, we've secured income growth of over 10%. The minimum wage of BGN 510 Now it's BGN 650. In the sector "Education" the salaries doubled. In others, such as "Secure" and "Secure," the growth is over 40%. We fulfilled our primary election promise to the pensioners for a minimum pension of 300 BGN. It was BGN 161. That means we've doubled the minimum pension. We are assisting all pensioners under the poverty line for the first time since there is a modern pension system. We introduced family income tax and every Bulgarian child will receive support from the state at 450 BGN. annually through the taxes of their parents. In the name of normality, family and children we were also a corrective of GERB. We stopped ratification of the Istanbul Convention, stopped the anti-family strategy for the child, amended the Social Services Act for the benefit of families and fought for its complete annulment. We blocked the ratification of SETA and kept Bulgaria from penetration of GMOs. We achieved zero migratory pressure on Bulgaria and because of other achievements, mainly of the Patriots, the fence with the Republic of Turkey, which was also our basic requirement. We guarantee an independent foreign policy that protects national interests and works in defence of Bulgarians across the border, which for us Patriots is extremely important the cause of Bulgaria in Macedonia. Through our participation in the government, we were able to implement a course that did not endure the historical forgeries and the anti-Bulgarian campaign with which Skopje was accustomed despite the external pressure, despite attempts to carry out the Bulgarian position. We believe that it is only a matter of time before the fictional thesis of Macedonianism to erosion and restore the historical truth about the Bulgarian origins of the population there. We gained recognition of the status of national minority for the Bulgarians in Albania. We are doing similar actions in Kosovo, and we have succeeded. We supported the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs. We protected the Bulgarians in Ukraine when they were threatened by administrative crushing and assimilation. We relieved the procedure for issuing the so-called blue card and working visa for Bulgarians from third countries, with which we helped our compatriots from Ukraine, Moldova, Northern Macedonia and others. In the fight for additional national self-esteem we introduced changes to the Labour Code on Cyrillica, which is the Bulgarian contribution to world history and today the holiday does not bear the impersonal name of Slavic writing, but the Day of the Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius, of the Bulgarian alphabet, education and culture and of Slavic literature. We've given an impulse to protect national security and increase defense capabilities. The decade-long decline in national security systems turned our country into an area without protection, an organism without an immune system. Foreign countries created parties, NGOs controlled religion without anyone paying attention to it. The army was involved in shortening the state and periodically cutting and selling military equipment. The composition was low-paid and deeply demotivated. For the Patriots, the main goal was to counter these processes. A comprehensive reorganization of the sector began, based on the principle that modern equipment, trained staff and motivated servicemen were needed for the construction of a combatable army. Now the interest of young people in the army is growing. Social status has been increased. With the whole set of measures was reversed and the tendency to reduce the numerical composition. We have taken note of a banned topic about the truth about the integration of the marginalized gypsy communities, because the boom of the marginal gypsy communities is a demographic problem in terms of distortion of the ethnic structure of the population. It is economic because these people do not want to work because they have turned it into a way of sustenance the draining of funds that are needed to support those who really need it. However, the emancipation of this problem is a matter of national security because there are areas of lawlessness and terror over the peaceful population, which is unacceptable in European Bulgaria. The Patriots were the first to put this problem out loud, covered by political correctness and used pre-electionally by unclean politicians. For us integration is not a way for Bulgarians to be trained in tolerance to Gypsy raids and outrage, but a process based on learning, labor and socialization. We stopped all welfare benefits in families whose children didn't go to school, brought back 40,000 children in class and put in mandatory kindergarten for children over 4 years. We stopped the unemployment benefits, if they don't work, they don't qualify and socialize. We have put in place a punishment for the crime of the public. Last but not least, we continued the fight for the rights of citizens and consumers. Our biggest battle was to remove the figure of a lifelong debtor and thanks to our partners from GERB and, in fact, to all MPs who supported this idea in the Chamber, this is already a fact through the change in the Law on Obligations and Contracts. We have limited the arbitrariness of the CSIs and the collector companies in the GPC, stopped the racketeering of utility companies when new subscribers were joined by changes in ZUT. We destroyed the chains of gambling dependence for hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians. We adopted amendments to the Law on noise protection, which introduced iron order and control. We have arranged legislative management and maintenance of dams, thereby preventing many floods and risks to water crises. We protected the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities in trade in oil and petroleum products, the rights and interests of small and medium-sized fuel traders and we effectively saved part of the industry from bankruptcy. Everything described proves that the United Patriarchs did not just participate in the power, not just face the challenges and solve some problems that the day-to-day everyday life is giving them, we have opposed the momentum and the accumulated decades of negative trends. We're starting to get over them. We believe that after our participation in the government Bulgaria is more independent, in protecting its national interests and more faithful to its spiritual traditions, which make us Bulgarians. In other words, the parties VMRO and NFSB have fully fulfilled their duty to the Bulgarian citizens who trusted them in the distant 2017 year. I will end with the call that led us in our affairs: "Bulgaria above all things! " [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. I give the floor to Mr. Mareshki for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u8	Dear compatriots, Madam President, honourable Members! The parliamentary group of the Volya Party ends with self-esteem and satisfaction its first term. With our work, with our behavior here, we have refuted all false news about us, which our opponents ran four years ago and during the election campaign, and then to this day. We showed you and all Bulgarians that there may be different MPs who people want to see for a long time fair and honest patriots, people who showed what it means to serve the interest of their country. We've shown what it means not to crave posts, but to fight for the sake of your people. The volition: we worked conscientiously, wholeheartedly, competently, without pointing out ourselves and without being jealous when you recognized our ideas. For many of them, however, you have not supported us, and now you have made them your election promises. People see that, too, be sure! We have none, I repeat, no lobbying law, and no law to the detriment of Bulgarian citizens. We were only the lobby of mothers, children, families, educated and enterprising Bulgarians. We do not have a single appointment to a state post for personal or party interests, and even less in the interests of foreign countries. Not one! We didn't get involved in any party scandal, we don't even have a single MP with suspicions of corruption. Four years ago, you said they were gonna split up our group, go shopping for us. We weren't surprised. This is how you are used to coming here and failed and independent people, but obedient partyers, ready to sell not only their party, but also Bulgaria. WALK completes its first term more cohesive, more motivated and with higher trust. We have answered the question that has been asked for 30 years: how do we deal with corruption? It's simple: with a lot of willpower and mostly corrupt politicians. We have justified the trust of our constituents. We are proud of everyone who supported us in 2017 and sent us here. Today we are more and stronger because when you get trust and when you justify it, it multiplys. For us the people are not electors, the people are sovereigns! And the sovereign is served. The people are assigning, and the politician is performing. It has always had to be like this, and we want to restore power to normality, because we have knowledge, experience and will to work hard so we are used to it. We will not wait for elections. We work 24 hours because we come from real life, where this is how you survive and prosper. It's the same in parliament, except the employer is different. Here the people appoint, and they vote on the tasks that we must carry out, the same nice things that you have been accustomed to promising in elections for years and then not performing. However, we are bringing things to an end. Probably because we took care of our own well-being before entering parliament, and here we make sure that all Bulgarians live better. If in the last 30 years each party had fulfilled at least its main election promises.. no more, at least one-only, then today we would have an economy at least equal to the one in Spain or the Czech Republic. This is our cause - happier and richer people in a more beautiful and clean Bulgaria. But clean not only with fresh air, clean nature, clean water, but also with clean parties and clean politicians. Let all the homeless who preach foreign ideologies and promote foreign interests come out of this room. Let laziness, hypocrisy, and irresponsibility go with them. Here is a place for patriotism and care for every Bulgarian. It's time for the honorable patriots to become the majority here. It's time for this tribune to come out only patriots with pure thoughts and pure hearts. It's hard to understand some party functionaries. They are only waiting for a subsidy paid by the taxes of our working business and by the people. They don't know how to create and protect jobs, how to pay salaries, how to pay taxes. They only know how to get ready, on the back of the entire people. But it's time for such politicians to be sent to history forever. And the ones we kicked out of parliament years ago to never let come back here again. It is time for the Bulgarians to get a decent life in their own country. It is time to show people that there is hope that there are MPs who can keep this title dignified. The time for action has come, otherwise if we continue to postpone, there will be no Bulgaria. Let never again a Bulgarian politician bow to behind-the-scenes masters. The head is reduced only to the homeland and the people, because Bulgaria is above everyone and above everything. God save Bulgaria! Ladies and gentlemen, compatriots, today is the Epistle of a holy day when we honor our mothers and their care for us, for their children. Let today the good news be our worship to the entire Bulgarian people, who in this difficult year, in this severe pandemic, in all the hardships that there was, managed to unite and survive again. Let's take this opportunity to thank all the doctors, all the teachers, all the policemen who have saved a lot of lives this year, and some of the people present in this room. Therefore, I call on you at the end of this National Assembly, let us also stand up with applause to pay our respects and respect to all Bulgarians, in particular doctors, teachers and policemen. I call on you to stand up and applaud them. [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u10	Thank you. God save Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u11	Thank you, colleagues. We'll continue with the final statement. She's on behalf of the independents. Here you go, Mr. Yankov. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov wants the floor to be spoken.]] Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Bulgarian citizens! The National Assembly completes its work with nearly 500 meetings and just as many new laws. A race to keep the mantra broken down, that MPs do not work, to prove how hard MPs work, or imperfect legislation that needs to be changed, to become better. Neither of these or both is a question to which each of our fellow citizens has an answer. The fact is that this does not mean that in the Republic of Bulgaria we have stable, unchanged laws. The fact is that unstable legislation leads to a lack of interest in developing the economy from foreign investment. Report on changes in legislation can be made with the Ministry of Interior Act, which has been changed more than 20 times in the last 10 years. The fact that even those who serve the state are working to implement the legislation has no security in terms of their work. Four years with countless pointless scandals of past-the-lines: the dogs bark, the caravan goes, the majority votes on the changes in the bills, makes decisions and does not comply with the will of the sovereign. Now is the time when once again the people of the sovereign will speak to whom they trust. I wish the next National Assembly less scandals, more consensus in making decisions! The sovereign expects the people's chosen ones to work and in all their actions to be guided by the interests of the people, as is the oath at the inauguration of each MP. Our fellow citizens will choose on 4 April 2021, but what is proposed? The same: promises, promises, promises! Everyone promises that if elected, if voted for individual political parties, wages, pensions, aids will be increased, we will live better. We even heard at the end of this session of the National Assembly how many promises have been fulfilled, but do we live better? It is surprising, however, that no one raises the issue in this campaign, and before that, about corruption. The ruling majority, the executive, understandably, has no interest, even trying, and successfully, to cause other scandals, to stare at our society in other events, but not in the most ugly phenomenon, turned into a crushed machine for more than ten years by the managements of Boyko Borisov. The main reason for the serious condition in the economy and in the work of the administration and in terms of the incomes and well-being of our citizens. We, as MPs, are the founders of the new party "Bulgarian Progressive Line" we prepared not only initiated but also prepared Borisov's last vote of mistrust for corruption. We detailed the crushed machine, which damages every Bulgarian citizen who harms every Bulgarian family from the appointment of the official on a party principle to the highest level and through legislation that can be interpreted by the clerk at his discretion, and proof of that is not only 700 million from the gambling business, which is currently claimed not to have been collected. It is surprising that both these parties and the new parties with the old politicians who claim to be part of the next parliament are not talking about corruption. Is it really surprising? We, representatives of the Bulgarian Progressive Line, believe that the politicians of the transition should retreat. They are the ones whose leading motive in their work is the principle: the Raven crow's eye does not pull out... It is time for new politicians, for the will to break this ugly phenomenon of corruption. We are taking first place the fight against this corruption from the lowest to the highest level, this corruption, which is 20? 30%. And when it comes to a public resource of hundreds of millions, of billions, can you imagine what a huge resource that is? This resource can result in a rapid, short-term, shocking increase in incomes, the remuneration of our fellow citizens. It can lead in short time to a better life in Bulgaria, to stop the leaving of young people. We from the Bulgarian Progressive Line will work for this. We will work in Bulgaria the rule of law and law compliance in the first place, there will be no corruption, there will be more redeployed public resources. But in fact, the most important thing is to understand and to think that it is time for more justice for this resource, which is not distributed fairly, for over-profits not only in a certain circle of tolerated employers of power, but for the whole economic life. Those over 90% of the people who are employed must be protected, which form the main part of gross domestic product. And when we talk about a new philosophy of distribution, a fair philosophy, a fair distribution of this resource, we must force employers to share their profits with the people of the hired work, the ones for which they profit, those that lead to progress, and not with overexploitation, not with overtime. It is now time to recall that this National Assembly, the ruling majority with a quorum of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, adopted 300 hours of overtime. Now, this is an overexploitation of the hired labor people! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] In the name of our party is at stake and what we will work for for the Bulgarian line, defending the national interest, and for models of management decisions that will lead to progress. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I wish you all well! I call on our fellow citizens, strictly following the anti-epidemic measures, following all safety recommendations, to exercise their right to vote. High activity will give legitimacy for making a decision to the next parliament. Therefore, I call on all our compatriots to exercise their constitutional right to vote on April 4th! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-25.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Dear colleagues! Today we are gathered to mark the end of the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Each of us will take different memories, as is a different assessment of each of us in the past four years. Soon the MPs from the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly will take their seats in this Chamber. Some of them will be veterans with experience, others will sit at MP banks for the first time. To future veteran MPs to wish to bear with them the lesson of the mistakes made in the past, and to those who will first enter here, let them not forget their promises to their voters. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now address a very important group of people whose work sometimes remains under-appreciated. As President of the Forty-fourth Parliament, I would like to stress the deep gratitude that all Bulgarian citizens owe to our thousands of volunteers in organizing the elections. [[Applause from GERB.]] For the smooth and fair running of the electoral process are engaged nearly 80 thousand. soul electoral administration in which sympathizers of various political formations participate. Together with the advocates, the representatives of the parties, the observers will be our guarantors for a fair vote, for broadcasting a legitimate national representation. Dear members of election committees, honourable advocates, representatives of parties and observers! You will make great efforts, you will take away your time, you will sacrifice long hours in the name of the Holy Holy Father of democracy, the right of each of us to state our views on the way in which the state wants to go. It's an expression of deep and faithful patriotism. All of you who have volunteered for the election committees are an example of true Bulgarian patriots, because in the conditions of democracy there is no greater patriotism than the protection of the honesty of the elections. Because in the context of democracy, I sincerely believe that all our compatriots are aware of the extent to which they are your debtors. I want to believe they'll show it when they get out to vote mass. Dear compatriots! Every vote matters, and every vote will be counted fairly. The voices of all of us have the same weight. Our society will only benefit from high turnout. And when you enter the election section, do not forget to say a sincere thanks to the people who are there to guarantee our civil rights. Dear MP candidates, we are entering the final phase of the election campaign! No matter how hot the passions are, let us not forget that after April 4 we will all continue to live together and neither our problems nor our dreams will be different on April 5th. Let's not forget the following quote from the Gospel of Luke: Every kingdom divided against itself is desolate, and every home divided against itself falls. I wish success to all participants in the 40th National Assembly elections! [[Applause.]] Dear colleagues! Please stand up to hear the anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. [[(Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound. (Applause)]] Dear colleagues, thank you for your cooperation. I'm shutting down the forty-fourth National Assembly! [[PHONE RINGING]]
