ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u1	Please, colleagues, take your seats quickly. It's registration time. Please, registration mode. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u3	Here. Please, colleagues, come to the gym. We have a problem with the registration with the consoles, not with the registration itself. Have all your colleagues checked in? Registered 118 in the hall plus 1 online We don't have a quorum. Next registration in 10 minutes. Discovered at 9:15.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u4	Colleagues, please take your seats. Mr. Angelov, we don't register yet. We expect our colleagues from the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics to come too. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Please, registration mode. Mrs. Petrova is on the line. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Registered in the hall 121 MPs plus one online The required number of MPs is 62 in the Chamber, which can make a decision today. Mrs. Zhelyazkova, procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u5	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I am making a procedure for extending the deadline for proposals between the first and second voting of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Social Security by seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. Importers are Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 3 December 2020. The first vote was adopted on 18 December 2020. Point one for Friday. Mrs. Alexandrova, would you like to introduce us to the Second Reading Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Report on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, No 054 "01-110," submitted by Krassimir Georgiev Tsipov and a group of MPs on 3 December 2020, adopted on the first vote on 18 December 2020. "Acceptance of the Code of Criminal Procedure" (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u8	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 139 MPs: 120 against 14, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u9	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article . (8) The provisions of para. 4, 5 and 7 shall not apply when investigating or investigating separate actions and other procedural actions by the Prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u10	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 139 MPs: 107 against 3, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u11	Under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The investigation into crimes committed by the Prosecutor General or his deputy shall be carried out by the Prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy. (7) The Prosecutor of the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy may assign separate actions to the investigating investigator of the investigating department in the special prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u12	Statements? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our attention is once again a Report on the Draft Law on Supplement and Amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by Krasimir Tzipov and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote, despite our protest and disagreement, and not only our..... to the entire community, including the Supreme Judicial Council. The aim of the bill is to present a mechanism with the help of investigating the Attorney General. In their efforts, the importers have created a new procedural figure, a prosecutor for the investigation against the Attorney General. Let's try to understand this legal innovation and try to find out if it's a prosecutor in the investigation of the Attorney General and if it's another Frankenstein in the legal science born by the ruling majority?! Is he capable of solving the problem he was created for?! In order to respond, we need to examine carefully our proposed Draft by GERB and look for answers to the following questions: who offers it, how it is chosen, how it will investigate and to which court the indictment against the Prosecutor General will be filed. The answers to these questions are extremely unsatisfactory and paint a magistrate, only and only a prosecutor proposed by prosecutors, and after the end of his term he returns to his fellow prosecutors to submit to the subject of his investigations. A magistrate who will assign investigative action to an investigator in the special prosecutor's office, who is subject to the Attorney General, and one of his deputies is also a boss. From the best man's shame you have offered to dismiss the provision of art. 139 para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary, allowing the Prosecutor General and his alternates to be able to cancel or amend his acts in writing. This is practically an admission by the importers that this provision makes the prosecutors in Bulgaria dependent on the will of the Prosecutor General or his deputies. Then why didn't you suggest al. 2 of art. 139 drop out in respect of all prosecutors, and only in relation to an investigator of the Attorney General? Next. Is there a naïve person who can assume that the prosecutor in an investigation against the Attorney General, despite his thunderous title, has the capacity to do something to achieve the goal for which he was created? The conclusion, honourable Members of Parliament, is obvious. I do not want to use the Italian term, and therefore I would simply say: the circle of solidarity and mutual assistance between prosecutors is closed with these proposals. If you really want independent, proud of your work prosecutors to prosecute our people's destroying corruption, release them and do not propose solutions aimed solely and simply to preserve the status quo. Do not offer another fast track for career development of investigators from the special prosecutor's office, because that is what you are doing in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u14	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u15	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At second reading, we are looking at this bill, which makes changes mainly in two laws, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Judiciary. They are interlinked, so allow me, Mr. Chairman, as I speak on this paragraph to refer to others. The whole idea behind this bill is to respond to the long-known demand of the European Court of Human Rights issued in connection with the case "Kolevi" so that the Prosecutor General can be the subject of an effective investigation. I am in a hurry to say that this is not at all the biggest problem of the judiciary, which does not mean that it should be underestimated, it must be solved and, if possible, effectively solved. At first reading, we have stated and still maintain that this new figure, which is being introduced with the current bill, is unnecessary, incomprehensible, and we can now argue, will not be effective. One reason for this, as we tried to explain at first reading, is that an investigation is not conducted by a prosecutor. Not the way this was announced to us. And here, Mr. Tzipov and a group of MPs, being aware of this fact, provide in this paragraph that the prosecutor for the investigation of the Attorney General may assign separate actions to the investigation of an investigator from the investigating department of the special prosecutor's office. More than that. Further, a new para is created in the Bill. Art. 3, Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, 144 of the Judicial Law, according to which, when this new super prosecutor is in fact unable to carry out an urgent action on the investigation, the head of the special prosecutor's office shall appoint a prosecutor from this prosecution on a random basis. With these two proposals, the whole idea of uniqueness exclusivity, independence and so on of the new investigative chief prosecutor is cracked and practically meaningless. What's going on? The status of this prosecutor is obviously special and is largely aligned to the three large in the judiciary. It will be elected by a plenary of the SJC under explicit procedure, its requirements are exceeded, has a mandate similar to the three majors and so on and so forth. However, this special prosecutor will simply be replaced by a regular prosecutor at the special prosecutor's office, who has been appointed by the head of this prosecutor's office. This in itself is the absolute recognition and proof that you very well understand that you are making a fine, creating a figure with which you can formally report the execution of the judgment. I think there are already enough signals from the Council of Europe, some of which you have taken into account that this will not happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear importers, the recommendations of the Council of Europe were explicitly to create a working mechanism for the control and investigation of the Prosecutor General in case he committed any wrongdoing or crime. In an old Bulgarian tradition we took the path of the least resistance, namely in the easiest way to find one person, to hire him and to take account of some activity. The proposed legislative rules will not implement the legislative changes proposed in the motives. Why am I saying this? Well, on the one hand, there is no proper prosecutor to investigate the Attorney General, as this is a strictly hierarchical structure and therefore a separate mechanism had to be created. Instead, we are offered a mythical figure of an investigative prosecutor, who will also be able to assign in certain cases of inability or, more precisely, in cases where he performs his duties, to other prosecutors or investigators of the Investigative Department of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office certain investigative actions. This, in turn, shows the bankruptcy of the thesis which importers defend. On the other hand, the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the General Court were created to combat organised crime. And here I ask a question: in the end we assume that the Attorney General and his deputies are an organized crime group or what? With these changes, we cannot meet the requirements of the Council of Europe. In all likelihood, very soon, we will face a new law on amendment and supplement that will have to re-proposal changes, as in all likelihood the Venice Commission, which has obliged us every single bill to be submitted to it, will reject it or give a negative assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u18	Thank you. Are there lines? Any other speeches? Speaking, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, in § 2 nothing exceptional is happening and nothing in particular and is different from what is happening in all investigations in criminal pre-trial proceedings in Bulgaria, namely the possibility to carry out separate actions in the investigation, I stress, separate actions in the investigation by investigators in this case by the Investigative Department of the Special Prosecutor's Office. In practice, the management of all pre-trial proceedings will be carried out by the prosecutor who will investigate the Attorney General. He will assess what investigative actions to be carried out, he will lead the entire investigation. Responsibility will not pass on to this investigator who will carry out one of the investigations, nor will he replace the function of the prosecution's prosecution. Whether this mechanism being proposed in the Bill will be approved or not, I do not think anyone can say at this time. And another marker in terms of the Venice Commission. It has recommended and advisory functions. I have no recollection of her forcing us to do anything. From what I remember as video conference talks with representatives of the Venice Commission there was no imperative obligation, there was rather a request to provide them with draft legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u20	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Zarkov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, my line consists in one question and one clarification. My question is this: since you yourself admit that nothing special is happening and that things will happen as they have done before, what exactly is the added value of the new figure you are proposing? That's my question. And my point is: this is not about the recommendations of the Venice Commission, or at least not just about them. The recommendations of the Venice Commission refer to a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which is now mandatory for Bulgaria under a Convention that we have ratified, that is, the issue stands and must be resolved. The only problem is you don't solve it properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u22	Second line? Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mitev, the aim of your bill, at least this is how you strive to present it, is the independence of the investigating Chief Prosecutor, of the new figure, which you incorporate into the Bulgarian law. However, this independence how will be achieved, when hypothetically there is a hypothesis, a signal arrives at the new figure, he assigns separate investigative actions to the Special Prosecutor's Office, to an investigator of the Special Prosecutor's Office, only that it is subordinate to the Attorney General. That is to say, this investigator must carry out some investigative action which is part of the investigation, which is an essential part of the investigation against his boss. How exactly this is going to happen and how much it will be regardless of this investigation you can answer for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u24	Thank you. I don't see a third line. A hole, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Thanks for the lines, too. Firstly, to the question of colleague Zarkov why the bill is practically proposed and nothing changes. In fact, it is changing because we are creating a new legal figure, which is elected in a special order, by a qualified majority of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, not only the Prosecutor's College, with the possibility not only prosecutors but also judges to participate in the selection procedure of the Prosecutor-General. I guess you don't expect extraordinary legislation to be created here, with extraordinary rules other than the general rules of the criminal process in the Republic of Bulgaria, just because the investigation would possibly be directed to the Prosecutor General. The Prosecutor General "I think we all agree" is a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria like all of us and should be investigated and tried according to the same rules under which every other Bulgarian citizen is being investigated and tried. So the procedure can't be different. There is no way for procedural rules to be different, to come up with a completely separate procedural order outside the one provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Otherwise, the question of the rule of law and the rule of law would be raised about the extent to which they exist after the creation of extraordinary legislation for one person, whether or not the chief prosecutor. As for the reply of colleague Popov, I do not agree, as one of the activities of the investigation, for example, carrying out a single examination or carrying out an interrogation of a witness, cannot influence nor could it be defined as material or minor. And in the end, the final decision on whether an indictment will be filed or not belongs not to this investigator who carried out this action, but to the prosecutor investigating the Attorney General, who is in fact entirely the master of pre-trial proceedings in this phase of the criminal trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u26	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. 140 MPs voted: 83, against 52, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u27	Under § 3, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A second sentence after the word "procurators" shall be inserted and added to the order of the Prosecutor of the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy. Under § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u28	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 3; and the Commission proposal for the removal of § 4 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u29	Let's vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u30	They want a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u31	We're already in voting mode. They voted 146 MP: 87, against 41, abstention 18. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u32	Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by the The Prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy is refused to initiate pre-trial proceedings. Art. 213a. (1) The Prosecutor of the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy may refuse to initiate pre-trial proceedings, which shall inform the victim or his heirs, the injured legal person and the person who made the communication. (2) The order shall be subject to appeal before the Specialized Criminal Court within seven days of receipt of the copy. (3) The specialized criminal court shall examine the case in private in closed session no later than one month after the entry of the documents on the file, giving a ruling. (4) Upon revocation of the decree, the court may give only reasoned instructions on the application of the law, without prejudice to the internal conviction of the prosecutor. (5) In the event of revocation of the decree, the court shall indicate which actions and the determination or verification of which facts should be carried out. (6) The definition under para. 3 may be protested by the prosecutor and appealed by the victim or his heirs, the injured legal person and the person making the notification to the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court within seven days of his notification. (7) The Specialised Criminal Court of Appeal shall rule in a Chamber of three Judges in a closed session with a definition which shall be final. (8) The Court may revoke a decision of refusal only where those given pursuant to para. 5 instructions have not been met.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u33	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I rather ask the importers a question because they have suggested, you see, that the court give mandatory instructions to the investigator, but without prejudice to his internal beliefs. How this is going to happen is absolutely incomprehensible. Well, for his inner convictions, the court didn't set up a prosecution, so he didn't form it. Is there even a need for the entry of this thing in the text: without prejudice to its internal belief? There is an absolute internal contradiction in the texts you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u35	Thank you. - What's the line? Statements? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In our statements under the previous paragraph, we have clarified that the possibility of prosecution of the Prosecutor General is a problem, but not the most important problem of the judiciary and the prosecution, in general the figure of the Prosecutor General, in particular. One of the main problems we believe, ladies and gentlemen, is the absolute monopoly that the prosecution has on deciding whether to initiate or not to initiate a given procedure on a given signal. This is their decision, which is subject only to internal prosecutorial control, reaching the top of the pyramid, i.e. to the Attorney General. That's where his great power comes from. Bulgaria is one of the countries with the highest degree of judgment decisions So the problem is not so much what goes into court as what never reaches it, and the barrier is in the prosecution's office. Our direct attitude to this text is as follows: we have been asking for years here to introduce the principle of judicial appeal of that act by which the prosecution refused, so that the court can verify not the internal conviction of the prosecutor, but whether he has followed all the steps written in the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to establish objective truth and in his internal conviction to continue the procedure or not. During these years, you have explained to us that this is unnecessary, impossible, harmful. You had some arguments worth hearing, others that were absolutely taken out of context, but in any case one of the important things that needs to be done is this possibility of judicial review of rejections. It, by the way, is also shared by the experts - international and internal. Here you offer this, but only with regard to the refusals of the new figure, and subject, of course, to your beloved Specialized Court. The step is in the right direction. Only he shouldn't have treated just one, as it has already become clear, an unnecessary figure of investigating the Attorney General. It must relate in a much wider aspect to persons or to acts which included the expert community in one debate, including prosecutors, lawyers, researchers. It can be cleared in such a way that a solution can be given to both the matter of the actual inaccessibility of the Prosecutor General and other investigations that are difficult to deal with because of the position of office or some internal collegial solidarity. I'm referring here to signals against other prosecutors, I'm referring to signals of police violence and others, where investigative authorities are in direct collegiate or other contact with the people they need to investigate with. Two-instant control is envisaged, everything is closed only in the Criminal Court, which makes us think that you still want all of this to remain under some kind of control....................the future will show, and it will show very quickly. I conclude with the following: it is good that there is still some breakthrough in this principle. It is wrong that he is too limited and bound from his very beginning to this pointless figure of investigating the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u37	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? Speaking, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, there is in fact no more logical authorisation in this case to provide for the possibility of a challenge before a court of refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings, as this is the subject matter of the Law. The entire purpose of the Law is precisely to arrange for the proceedings and the rules under which the investigation is carried out, including cases where there is a refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings at all, to carry out an investigation. So in this sense, yes, the refusals can be appealed bilaterally, as has been stated, and there is no way here to seek the introduction of the principle that colleague Zarkov expects of us. Since this, as he himself knows, and as he himself has said more than once, must happen after a rather broad expert debate. More than once on this occasion, opinions have been made that if this happens in relation to absolutely all pre-trial proceedings, what will happen is blocking both the prosecution and the court. And that's indisputable. You can read it in a number of opinions that come not only from the prosecution, come from criminal law theory. So in this sense there is no way in this bill to look for an extension of the principle that you want to introduce. This is not a principle, it is an exception to the rule currently existing in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why the Specialized Criminal Court? Well, because it is practically the competent court in this case with regard to persons holding senior government positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Mitev! You rightly said that this should have happened after a big public debate on the subject. Well, do you remember that we proposed this two years ago, and you have been stubbornly refusing to actually hold such a public debate on such an important subject of the rule of law?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u41	Thank you. Any other lines? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Krasteva, I cannot agree with your line for the simple reason that the bill that you have tabled was, as far as I recall, correct me if I am wrong, to absolutely all criminal proceedings. There is no way to introduce this principle with regard to everyone, that is to say how, but the results will not be good from this. I think colleague Zarkov knows that very well. And I say that there is a need, because there is a resonant in general in his thesis, but there should be thought of specific proceedings where to be challenged, to see how these proceedings will develop, will the prosecution and courts be overwhelmed and troubled to examine them and administer them? And that's why I'm saying that at that stage, that bill you submitted two years ago, it couldn't be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the new § 4 as amended by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 85 against 11, 26 abstentions. Paragraph 4 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u44	Under § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) The prosecution's ruling on the investigation of the Prosecutor General or his deputy shall not apply to the decisions of the Prosecutor's Office. According to § 6, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 411a, al. 4 Finally a comma is placed and added.. as well as cases of the prosecutor's competence in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his According to § 7, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 411c. 1 after the word of the Prosecutor's Office, a comma shall be placed and the Prosecutor's Office for the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his Deputy Prosecutor's Office shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u45	Are there statements on these three paragraphs? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: for 83, against 6, abstention 27. Paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u46	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov in accordance with Article 8. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Supreme Judicial Council shall conduct the procedure for selecting a prosecutor for the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy. According to § 9, there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 2 is created t. 21: ..21. select a prosecutor for the investigation against the Attorney General or his deputy. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 2: (2) The Prosecutor of the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy shall be part of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. He is involved in the proceedings of his jurisdiction before the specialized criminal court, the appeals specialized criminal court and the Supreme Court of Cassation. (b) The current para. 2 and 3 become respectively. 3 and 4; c) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): the following points are inserted after point 4 (d) The current para. 5 " 8" becomes respectively. 6 - 9; (e) the current para. 9 becomes para. 10 and in it the words "al." 3 " 5' are replaced by "al'. 4 (f) the creation of para. 11: . (11) The provisions of para. The prosecutor's activities in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy do not apply to the activities of the Prosecutor. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 138, p. 6 words................................................................................. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 is created. 4. . (4) Alinea 2 shall not apply to the acts of the Prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 is created. 9. The prosecution of the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy shall not apply to all acts and actions of the Prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A new para. 144 is being created. 3: . (3) Where the Prosecutor of the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy is in fact unable to carry out an urgent action in the investigation, the Administrative Director of the Special Prosecutor's Office shall appoint a Prosecutor from the same Prosecutor's Office on the principle of random selection to carry it out. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 170 is . (6) A prosecutor shall be appointed as a prosecutor for the investigation of the Prosecutor General or his deputy with an internship under art. 164, para. 7, with acquired status of incompetence, with high professional and moral qualities, with a positive complex assessment of the last testimonial, which in the last 5 years has not been imposed any of the disciplinary penalties under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 3, 4, 5 or 6 with a decision in force. 8. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 173a: Art. 173a. (1) The procedure for the selection of a candidate for a prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy shall be opened by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council no earlier than three months and no later than one month before the expiry of the term of office or within 7 days of the occurrence of a circumstance under art. 175, para. 1. (2) Proposals for candidates for a prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy within 7 days of the adoption of the decision initiating the procedure may: 1. no less than six members of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council; 2. the candidate for the post. (3) The proposals shall be accompanied by detailed written reasons, a reference to the applicant by a model approved by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council and a written consent of the applicant. All documents submitted shall be published on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council no later than 14 days before the public hearing. (4) The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council shall declare the date, time and place of hearing for each candidate at least 7 days prior to its holding. The hearings shall be conducted in alphabetical order. They are public and are broadcast in real time through the website of the Supreme Judicial Council. (5) Non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out public service activities, professional organisations of judges, prosecutors and investigators, higher schools and scientific organisations may submit opinions on the candidate to the Supreme Judicial Council no later than 7 days before the hearing, including questions to be put to the candidate. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. The opinions and questions submitted shall be published on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council within three days of their submission subject to the protection of personal data requirements. (6) The Committee on Appeals and Competitions and the Committee on Professional Ethics of the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall draw up reports on the professional and moral qualities of candidates. The reports shall contain a conclusion on: 1. the legal requirements for taking up the post; 2. the existence of data which question the moral qualities of the applicant, his qualifications, experience and professional qualities; 3. the specific preparation, qualities and motivation for the respective position. (7) The report of each commission shall be published on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council at least 7 days before the vote of the candidate concerned. (8) The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council shall adopt the decision to elect a candidate by a majority of not less than fifteen votes with a clear vote. (9) When none of the candidates received fifteen or more of the votes of the members of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council in the first vote, the selection shall continue for the two candidates who received the most votes. (10) The Prosecutor of the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy shall be elected for a period of 5 years without the right to re-election. (11) Upon expiry of the term of office or early termination of the term of office on the basis of art. 129, para. 3, p. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Prosecutor for the investigation of the Prosecutor General or his deputy, who applied to the College of the Supreme Judicial Council within 14 days of the date of expiry or early termination of the term of office, shall be appointed to the post held before the election, to an equal position or to a position of one degree higher than that held before the election in the judicial authorities. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 6: . (6) The basis for the early release of the Prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy shall be established by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council by a decision adopted in accordance with the procedure for his election. (b) The current para. 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2, in the text before t. 1 after the word of the Council, the Prosecutor's Office for the Investigation of the Prosecutor General or his Deputy Prosecutor shall be added. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 311, p. 4 Finally added to the prosecutor's investigation against the Attorney General or his deputy. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 312, para. 2 after the words of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, the prosecutor of the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy shall be added. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with Criminal Procedure (prom., SG No. (c) in the additional provision, in § 1, the words "personal physical security', under the terms and conditions of the Code of Criminal Procedure' shall be replaced by "security'.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I open discussions on the name of the Section as well as paragraphs 8, 9 and 10. Statements? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, just a moment ago, as my fellow Members, have stopped at the essence of the Bill, by its purposes or by its lack of such and the opportunity to achieve them. However, here in this paragraph, I also take the opportunity to say in respect of the entire Law that there is also a grammatical error, a obvious grammatical error, and the Law on Legislative Acts clearly states what the legal acts should be. They should be clear, not give rise to ambiguities. But this practically shows how without public debate, how quickly, the stubborn of GERB are trying to pass this bill despite the challenge of the entire legal community, despite the opposition of the BSP, despite the challenge of the Supreme Judicial Council. And in order not to be naked, I respect: When the prosecutor of the investigation against the Attorney General or his deputy........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u49	Just tell me which point and which paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u50	Paragraph 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u51	Paragraph 9, but which member?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u52	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by When the prosecutor for the investigation of the Attorney General or his deputy is in a factual inability to carry out a urgent action....................... and so on. In the following subparagraph, a prosecutor is appointed for the prosecution of the investigation of the Prosecutor General or his deputy...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It appears from the text that the new Attorney General has a replacement. That's exactly what you wrote. It's purely grammatical. It's not even true. It is not true that the sentence itself is constructed and gives rise to ambiguity. But this practically illustrates exactly what I told you just now, how quickly, without public discussion, despite all the opinions of the entire community you are trying to push through this madness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Will the importers have any editing? No. You think there's no reason for editing? Thank you. Is there any line to Mr. Popov's statement? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u54	Dear Mr. Simeonov, dear MPs! In connection with the proposal to create a new para. 2 in art. Art. 136 of the Judicial Law will remind you of art. 126, para. 2 of the Constitution, which reads: The Prosecutor General supervises the legality and methodological management of the activities of all prosecutors. The text you are proposing makes no sense to all the texts that you just voted and adopted. You are creating an enchanted circle from which there is no exit, and it is clear that there will be no efficiency in the work of the newly created figure prosecutor who will investigate the Attorney General. In this way you throw dust into the eyes of Bulgarian citizens that you work for the rule of law and implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe. You know, I'm already wondering if you're not trying out who's going to last more.... whether the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe with their recommendations or you? But time will tell.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u55	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u56	Mr. Chairman, I'll be speaking on two paragraphs 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u57	Okay. You have, in fact, ten minutes. If you wish, you may not use them all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question is not whether to use them, but whether it makes sense? That is, whether not only those who speak but those who listen make an effort to understand, or at least to disprove our arguments in substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u59	Are you giving up the speech or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u60	Not at all! Not at all! Don't get your hopes up. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u61	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u62	Paragraph 9 makes many changes to the Law on the Judiciary. For them the attitude took my colleagues, and the previous paragraphs were also mentioned. Several regulations change, criticisms are clear, but I would like to say a provision that does not change, and it is key to the effectiveness of the new figure of the prosecutor investigating the chief. I asked the Legal Committee if this was just a pass. Since it is not in the Report today, it means that this is not a omission, but a conscious decision. What's this about? According to art. 230 of the Law on the Judiciary, where a judge, prosecutor or investigator is accused of a deliberate crime of a general nature, he may be removed from office by the relevant committee of the Supreme Judicial Council and this shall be pending the completion of the criminal proceedings. This happens at the reasoned request of the Attorney General, which is based on a proposal from the monitoring prosecutor. However, such an opportunity is not foreseen and you are not making an amendment which provides that the investigating officer will be able to request the SJC to remove from the position for the time of the proceedings of the subject of his investigation, i.e. the Prosecutor General. Moreover, the Attorney General, in turn, may request removal from office of the person who will investigate him if he has come into this hypothesis. And that's what we put in your best interest on the Legal Commission. Absolutely nothing is taken into account as a note that makes me think that you purposely, among the many texts that you have changed in the Law on the Judiciary, have jumped out of art. Art. 175 to Art. 308 somehow, passing this element. And he's more important to the Attorney General, perhaps more than to ordinary judges, prosecutors and investigators who are subject to the text now. This is very significant in itself. I conclude with § 9 and address § 10, Mr. Chairman, and please note that it has nothing to do with the nine at issue before that. So far, we are dealing with laws in two legal acts which govern a new figure in the Bulgarian administration, which will investigate the Prosecutor General, and now suddenly we are dealing with the protection of persons threatened with criminal proceedings and, more precisely, with the Bureau of Protection, which operates with the Prosecutor General. Although there is a semantic coincidence between the words of the Prosecutor General, the topics have nothing to do with it. Yesterday we had another opportunity to talk about these things. And since I'm committed to Mr. Mitev with a certain analysis, this should also be subject to such analysis. Nothing to do with it! Basically, what's this about? You know, the U.S. Attorney's Office of Defense was originally set up to protect witnesses who need special protection. Therefore, a special law on the protection of persons threatened with criminal proceedings has been made. Over time, and especially in this term, somehow the Bureau of Defense dropped the witness work. Not that it's been wiped out, but his powers have expanded to personal security mainly to senior magistrates, to the Attorney General himself and so on, and their participations that we saw on television in various... I don't know what to call them operations. Now, with this amendment, this thing is brought into shape by dropping the words under conditions and by the order of the Criminal Code. Why are those words out of the question, Mr. Chairman? I'll tell you. Because this new security activity has nothing to do with the criminal trial, that is, it cannot be carried out under the terms of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This deserves a separate debate on what the Bureau of Defense is about, what its function is, where it should be located, and not on this bill behind it to stick this topic to it, hoping maybe it will go unnoticed or giving some kind of sign to someone. This legislation is absolutely untrue in this way. And that's not the worst part. The worst thing is that it ultimately turns out to be ineffective and leads to repair and repair of the repair, and to further recommendations from the country and abroad, and to the general feeling of citizens that something is wrong. Well, it's not okay. It's true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u63	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Tzipov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! However, let us remind ourselves that we are talking about a second vote on the bill so tabled, because I see that a large part of the issues and topics being raised have already been discussed in the first vote in plenary. From the stands, I would like to reiterate our firm position that such a figure must be introduced in order to implement the recommendations made to us by our European partners, on the other hand, to meet public expectations. Yes, this bill has undergone a serious change between first and second readings, but ultimately it is precisely for this reason that all the draft laws are being examined in order to cause public discussion, differing opinions and opinions and the plenary to assess how the legislative process should continue when examining a bill. I want to focus on what we did between first and second readings. Initially, the idea we launched in the submitted bill was the nominations for the prosecutor in the investigation against the Attorney General and his deputies to be made by the prosecutor's college. We have also decided in the first vote that we will make proposals in this regard. In a moment we will vote on nominations to raise the candidates for this position to be able to be made by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council at least six members of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, and the candidates themselves to be able to raise...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u65	Myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u66	...his nomination. We believe that this will also enable the members of the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council to make their nominations, and we have actually adopted the recommendations that we have heard in the context of the public discussion. There have been many reproaches from the pre-speakers that in the end, by introducing this figure, we must look for many exceptions from general principles. I cannot agree with such a position to the extent that, in the end, this prosecutor in the investigation of the Attorney General must carry out all his actions under the Law. And the law is also the same with regard to criminal proceedings and with regard to the procedures for determining candidates for those posts. We have made it very clear that we need to comply with the various opinions and opinions that have taken place, and for this reason we have made these proposals, which have really seriously amended the initially tabled bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u67	Excuse me, Mr. Tzipov, if you could just give me a clue: what text of the Law are you talking about right now? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u68	Under the law of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u69	But I can't see that kind of text here. Your speech is like a first vote. The specific text, chapter by chapter, is written in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will only refer to the procedure with regard to the selection of candidates. The other thing we have also changed in the Law on the Judiciary is our initial decision regarding the mandate of this prosecutor. Initially, the option was to be a 7-year term, we have now proposed and I hope that this House will support this prosecutor to have a 5-year term. And another important thing that we have done is the particular majority. This majority will be different from the majority required in the decision of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council regarding the election of administrative leaders or the choice of the so-called three major ones. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I think... Please, five more minutes, since we're debating two...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u71	Oh, no, I won't give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u72	All right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u73	I won't give you one, because you didn't speak the text for four minutes you spoke in common...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u74	To conclude, I want my fellow Members to vote on these proposals that we made between first and second readings, precisely in relation to the Law on the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u75	Okay, thanks. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions', § 8 and § 9 as amended by the Commission, as well as the proposal for a new § 10. Vote 112 MPs: 84, against 18, abstention 10. In this way, the last paragraphs of the Law have been adopted. We have concluded the second vote on the Appendix to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONCESSIONS. Mrs. Alexandrova, are you going to deliver the Committee on Legal Affairs Report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 102-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2021. At its meeting held on 27 January 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 102-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2021. The meeting was attended by the administration of the Council of Ministers The draft was presented by Ms Germanska, who indicated that it complies fully with the requirements of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts and Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in public procurement. It noted that, subject to national law and the requirements of the directives, the scope of the law is precise with reference to all contracting authorities and contracting entities, giving definitions of the terms In relation to the extension of the scope of the entities, the exceptions to the scope of the Law to certain works concessions or service concessions are also specified. The bill also precises a number of concepts such as a concession of interest and a concession of no interest to facilitate the implementation of the Law. In order to achieve full harmonisation with the provisions of European legislation, the grounds for exclusion of a candidate or participant shall be specified and it shall be possible for the contracting authority or contracting entity of its own discretion not to exclude a participant in insolvency or liquidation proceedings where it is established, subject to the requirements laid down, that the economic operator in question will be able to discharge the concession. The draft law repeals the imperative requirement for solidarity liability of the third party and enables the contracting entity to assess the need for its inclusion in concession contracts. The requirements for providing information to applicants and participants shall be reviewed by ensuring timely notification of the decisions taken on the award of a concession, including information on the successful candidate, the grounds for rejecting the application or tender and the grounds for any decision not to award a contract. The proposed changes to Annex 2 shall complement the activities for which a concession for services may be awarded and propose the inclusion of oil or gas production, as well as the exploration and extraction of coal and other solid fuels. In order to ensure a more qualitative and comprehensive monitoring and ex ante control of compliance with concession award requirements, it is proposed that a Directorate of the Specialised Administration of the Council of Ministers should monitor concessions when the value is above the European threshold and a ban is introduced to determine the highest amount of investment as a award criterion. The bill shall specify the conditions for the procedure for determining the concessionaire and the requirements for the content of the Protocol. It is also proposed that the verification of the facts and circumstances declared with the application be carried out by the concession holder when signing the concession contract. The proposed amendments specify the order for opening an account for the two types of concessions above and below the European threshold and regulate the obligation of the concession holders to accept and process electronic invoices, specifying their content by explicit provision. The concessions for the use of the Law on concessions are envisaged to be withdrawn, with the aim of fulfilling the requirements of European legislation and facilitating the concession classification. The Law specifies that the operation of the services also includes the right of the concessionaire to carry out one or more economic activities other than those entrusted to provide and manage, thereby ensuring the possibility of awarding a concession to entities which are state or municipal property. Members of the National Assembly Krum Zarkov, Christian Mitev, Anna Alexandrova and Todor Baychev took part in the discussion. National Representative Christian Mitev said he will support the bill. In response to Mr. Mitev's questions Mrs. Nemska clarified that there is no criminal procedure against Bulgaria regarding the introduction of the directives and added that a letter of notice was received which contains specific recommendations for the terminology used and which is a reason for the proposed changes. Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Baychev said they would not support the bill. In response to their questions, Mrs. Slavkova pointed out that concessions in the field of defence and security are also subject to the current provisions of the Law on concessions and the proposal only refines the terminology used. She added that it was not possible for subcontractors to participate, but that the concession holder was given the opportunity to assess whether to negotiate in the concession contract a solidarity liability of the third parties. It was clarified that the Draft Law did not introduce any changes in relation to the participation of subcontractors. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 11 votes in favour and 7 votes in opposition, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on concessions, No 102-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. With the report of the Committee on Environment and Water, Mrs. Dimitrova will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 102-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2021. At its meeting on 28 January 2021, the Committee on Environment and Water examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 102-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2021. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Waters: Iliana Todorova Deputy Minister; by the Council of Ministers: Mariana Slavkova, State Expert, and Severina Despodova. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Ms Mariana Slavkova. She stressed that the Bill was designed to bring into full compliance with the requirements of European legislation. Requirements resulting from Directive 2014/23/EU on the award of concession contracts and Directive 2014/55/EU on electronic invoicing in public procurement shall be introduced. In addition, the Bill includes proposals to refine individual provisions in order to facilitate law enforcement, one of the main ones being the dropping of concessions for use. The Bill also proposes amendments to the Water Act, which aim to avoid certain conflicting provisions relating to the award of the management and maintenance activities of dams. With the provision of art. 20, para. 5 of the Water Act it is imperative that the person to whom a concession is awarded for a water system is awarded the concession contract is also awarded the management and maintenance activities of the facilities. The award of the management and maintenance activities of the facilities shall in any event include the execution or simultaneous design and execution of construction and assembly works and activities included in Appendix 1 to the Law on concessions. Therefore, in all cases, the concession for a dam should be defined as a concession for construction, regardless of the type, nature and value of the additional works awarded. The provisions of the Water Act, which allow the dams to be rented in relation to the opinion received by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, are preserved. On a proposal from the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Bill included dropping the economic assessment as a basis for the act of mineral waters, public municipal property. It is done in order to comply with the amendment of the provision of art. 21 of the Water Act. The Commission received an opinion from the Ministry of Environment and Water, which supports the bill and was presented by Deputy Minister Todorova. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Manol Genov, Mladen Shishkov, Krasimir Bogdanov and Atanas Kostadinov. Opinions were expressed in favour of dropping concessions for use. The topics related to the operation of the contracts currently concluded have also been discussed and it was confirmed by the importers that the legislative changes will not lead to a change in the terms of the contracts in force. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water unanimously, with 16 votes for the concession law, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on concessions, No 102-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Yeah. Here you go. Please, MPs, put on your masks! [[Noise and lines.]] Please put on your masks! Don't force me to take action.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll take the floor on the bill in question. It is presented to our attention in response to a letter from the European Commission on the clarification of the texts implemented in the Bulgarian legislation implementing the 2014 Directive on concessions of the European Parliament. Specifically. What the importer offers us is an accurate revision of the texts to respond to the concerns the European Commission has sent us in 2020 for the clarification of texts. The specific paragraph, which surprised colleagues from GERB in the Defence Committee, is precisely § 10 for concessions in the field of defence. As far as I have heard from colleagues who have worked on the draft Law by the administration of the Council of Ministers, it is about the following: the Commission's response to a requirement to correct the exceptions and the texts on exceptions for concessions in the field of defence and how countries can conduct procedures that concern their fundamental interest. The specific text of Directive 2014/23 for exceptions states that this Directive does not apply to concessions in the field of defence and security which have three main points, namely that the State considers that there is a fundamental interest in the area of security and sensitive information which it cannot share, contain classified information and that there should be a check of proportionality of the actions employed, i.e. measures which are implemented with a fundamental interest and with the avoidance of the Law on concessions, that is, the use of exceptions cannot be achieved with lower measures, namely a check of proportionality. As far as I understand from colleagues, this is also the option to define the text in order to meet these conditions, to define what this concession is in the field of defence and security. I do not think that the text which has been submitted to the National Assembly in § 10 is practically applicable, but rather will raise more questions about what concessions in the field of defence are. That is why, with colleagues from the Defence Committee, our colleagues from GERB undertake to introduce changes between the two readings, namely to clarify the exceptions in the directive so that we can verbatimly translate the text of art. 10, § 6 (a) of the Directive, which concerns the concession in the field of defence and security, and the § 10 in question, so that there is no doubt that there will be concessions in the area of defence........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thus, to fulfil the conditions of the European Commission for the full implementation of the Directive, but also to have no further questions as to what this concession is in the field of defence, as we propose that this § 10 be dismissed. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u81	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Put on your mask, don't tell me what to do! Put on your mask! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take account of the Law on concessions, namely in the part concerning § 10, art. 12, concerning the defence and national security of the state. Of course, there are many other texts in the law itself that need to be refined, even insufficient to be refined, as well as this paragraph. Dear colleagues, security is a functional state of a system that ensures the neutralization, opposition to external and internal factors that influence can affect destructively or worsen the organizational state of a system. This leads to an inability to function. It's like a definition of security. Of course, if we raise the national security bar a little higher, and especially when it comes to defence, it is a system of measures taken by one country to ensure its survival and safety, as well as to prevent threats from internal and external, and to protect the welfare of citizens and the population. I'm done. If you've been careful about § 10, you'll notice a collision in everything I've said so far. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as a liberal-democratic party, of course, are about disabling the economy, and I want you to understand me correctly, but this must be done within certain limits, within certain parameters, i.e. a state as much as it needs to be. We are for free economic development, but under the control of control systems by the state. Dear colleagues, free economic development, competitiveness does not require, does not even require the granting of a concession to national security, particularly concerning defence, and not only. Texts must be very carefully written regardless of who worked on them. Of course, positive practices must also be drawn from other countries. I will give as an example Britain, where most of the railway trains are private, but the very facilities on which they are moving, the so-called rails, are state-owned. It's just an example. I come here with an example and a question specifically to the Secretary of Defense. Since the state must acquire war planes and must build facilities for their preservation, the so-called hangars, I ask: will these hangars be given to concession, exclusive state security? And does the maintenance of combat planes also require concession, honourable colleagues, or is it a port, for all that falls within the scope of defence? These are vague questions that society will be asking tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Or is this another populist election legislation, crappy legislation, patch?! Do not justify yourself as lawmakers and legislators with European directives, refined texts and so on. Dear colleagues, and if we are talking about the area of cybersecurity, which is very relevant at the moment, are we still going to give everything about national security, state security and defence to a concession? Why, who, what imposes, how control will be carried out, by whom? These are all questions that require not precision, but not consideration at all. The state, the security of citizens, the security of the nation cannot be attributed to concession, honourable Members. If we get credible answers that are missing, and I doubt we'll get any answers, we'll consider reconsidering our position. But I doubt it. Of course, this automatically brings corruption in huge proportions with a state concession. We'll keep a close eye on this trial. I propose that between first and second readings be dropped at all § 10, art. 12, so there won't be any playback with the national security of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u83	- What's the line? Mr. Mihov, come in. Then Mr. Gazhev says another line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u84	Mr. Ibryamov, I do not agree with the suggestions you have made from this tribune. You, as a member of the Defence Committee, know very well the parameters, dimensions and nature of the acquisition of modern aircraft and especially the new F-16 Block 70. You know very well what financial resources the central budget devotes, how many years, what infrastructure and which airports will be built. And here to ask the Secretary of Defense about something you know is a form of suggestion of corruption, as you said. I am glad, however, that you mentioned a port, because in your mouth the ports enter very close to the Black Sea coast, to beaches, and from there the word "Rosenets" is simply visible. I think that Bulgaria's coastline is strategic and public government property and you should give an example to return it to the state for the needs of defence and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u85	Mr. Gazhev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, you must not have listened carefully to my speech or I have not been clear enough, so I will repeat. And we in GERB's parliamentary group are sufficiently surprised by this text, specifically for § 10 in this bill, and that is why I said just now that we will propose that it be dropped, because the words ................................... are not going in the same sentence and in the same text. We are therefore strongly opposed to concessions in the field of defence, and we do not want any. We need to clarify the text of the exemptions, as per a directive, in order to be able to fulfil the conditions proposed by the directive, because we still have a pressing criminal procedure, but these conditions concern exceptions in the field of national security that are not subject to concession and that the state must check and maximise the scope of exceptions in order to reduce the level of corruption. And this is what GERB proposes to reduce corruption and not have concessions in the field of defence. And let's get this debate over with, because this paragraph needs to be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u87	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Ibryamov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u88	Thank you. Mr. Gazhev, the very fact that you are surprised by this text speaks of one thing. The dialogue between the institutions is missing, Mr. Gajev! There is no dialogue between the individual institutions in the country and what I said only confirms my words. Thank you for having reconsidered the need to refine or withdraw this text, and I congratulate you on that. As for Mr. Mihov, I asked questions to the Minister of Defense, who is the principal. When it comes to defence and national security, all defence-related equipment, land, fighting equipment shall fall within the parameters of this text. Once again I will say this from the words you said and Mr. Gajev confirms that this is about large-scale corruption.. defence corruption related to the national security of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u89	Thank you. Mr. Milev has made a statement. Will there be any other speeches? [[Replyes: "No, no. "]] The Quaestors, please call the MPs for a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposed amendment in § 10, art. 12 of the Law on concessions is unclear and quite disturbing. Thus, the proposed text is perhaps an attempt to circumvent the Public Procurement Act in the districts of Defence and Security. We have heard here that it will almost be refined for a second vote, will withdraw and so on. But I'm asking in art. 2 of the current law it is said that the purpose of concessions is to provide: "1." development of quality and accessible infrastructure and services of public interest through a partnership between public authorities and economic operators; 2. fulfilling public needs by including private investment in construction and in the provision and management of services at the best quality and price ratio; 3. effectiveness and efficiency in the spending of public funds and funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds and programmes; 4. economic efficiency in the management of public property in the protection of the interests of citizens and society. Based on this: why the proposed changes do not reveal exactly how a concession contract will be used for the proposed change in art. 12, I quote a concession in the districts of Defence and Security? There is assigned the same thing that I used to quote in the current law: "1." Delivery of equipment specially designed or adapted for military purposes and intended for use as weapons, ammunition or military material, including parts, components and/or mountings for such equipment, hereinafter referred to as "military equipment'; 2. supply of sensitive equipment, including parts, components and/or mountings for such equipment. And here we are getting into the conversation about classified information, entering the conversation about public procurement in the dark. How exactly will weapons, ammunition and military equipment be concessionated? This sounds absurd, given the cited article above. 2 of the Law on concessions. The supplies of equipment, weapons, ammunition and other military equipment are regulated in the Public Procurement Act. This is why we from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and we believe that these changes aim precisely to circumvent it. "Concession' means the right of operation on a public-interest site granted by a concession to a commercial company against the obligation of the concession holder to build and/or manage and maintain the concession site at its own risk. The concession shall be granted on the basis of a long-term written contract with a certain material interest concluded between the concession and the concession holder and may, according to its subject-matter, be: concession for works, for services and for extraction. Can someone in this room explain to me how weapons, ammunition, military equipment and special means will be used by the army and the special services of the situation? Weapons and ammunition are individual means, and this is what contradicts the proposed changes and reality. In addition, the adoption of such changes, recorded in this way, would mean giving the country's defence and security to a concession. This is unacceptable from the point of view of the State's interests. Regarding the granting of a concession to construction, we could really discuss it, as the Ministry of Defence can allocate its properties for various commercial purposes with a devoid of necessity and thus accumulate funds to support its budget. But there is also this possibility in the current law. This text not only needs to be refined, it also needs to be dismissed. With the proposed changes in art. 12, para. 2, p. 3 is mentioned, and I quote: "3." works and services directly related to equipment under point (a) of Article 3 (1) 1 or 2, for each and all elements of the equipment lifecycle, which includes possible subsequent stages such as research and development, industrial development, production, repair, modernisation, modification, maintenance, logistics, training, testing, decommissioning and disposal. This is where we enter a colony really against national security and defense. Which of these things is something that does not allow for the implementation of existing regulations and, above all, under the Public Procurement Act, that it is necessary to grant a concession? How will concession be granted, for example, removal from use and disposal? This text of the proposed changes eloquently shows that such a concession contract has nothing to do with art. 2 of the Act on concessions in force. It is simply not applicable from whatever aspect to look at. Can the scrapping of arms, equipment and others be granted a concession? For this activity there is another regulation and base. To conclude, once again, the proposed texts are absurd from the point of view of the philosophy enshrined in art. 8 of the Law on concessions, where it is said what can be given to concession. Can any of the importers explain how we are conceiting weapons, ammunition, combat and special equipment and this fits into the article cited above. Eight? We from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will not support such proposals and will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u91	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u92	Procedure! Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u93	I'm sorry. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for extending working hours until the end of this bill and the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u95	Thank you. You propose that, by the end of the bill, we extend the time before parliamentary control. Are there any other suggestions, gay? I can't see. Please vote on the procedural proposal made. Vote 92 MPs: 78 against 8, abstention 6. The procedural proposal is accepted. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u96	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with a little reminder. On 5 or 4 February, if I am not mistaken, but at the beginning of February 2016, when we adopted the Law, which allowed other NATO member states, together with our aircraft to carry out Air Polish, from this tribune, of course, in the other building, a little ironicly told you that it would probably come time to talk about concession of defence and give our defence to concession: which offered us better conditions, it would protect us. In this case, this irony, unfortunately, five years later, is almost real with what we are offered in the Law on concessions. Because I am very interested in reading carefully what is offered in art. 12, para. 2, p. 4 "What is this "concession" in the defence, there is written "skills" for specific military purposes or sensitive services. And I ask: will we not by chance include state defence, border guards and any other missions such as the defence services, so that we can give them on concession? This, of course, is in the form of irony. But, unfortunately, this irony has a basis in what we're being offered. Because I don't understand! The colleagues from GERB will withdraw this proposal or change it in some form, but will propose to drop this paragraph at all. The DPS colleagues have no intention of supporting him at all. I heard the Patriots were against it, too. We at BSP disagree. Well, who brought it in? Can anyone explain to me in this country who took the liberty of making a concession and defense connection? Something that is absolutely incompatible, something that is an extremely national responsibility, defence and all actions that are related in this area. I ask: how and who did it and if the one who did it has eyes to stand before the public and say: I am the one who offered to have a concession in defence? I suppose he wouldn't dare to do that, because such nonsense makes our country's policy just that much more than that, I don't want to use insulting words, but light-headed, that hardly anyone can take us seriously. Since in such an area of defense, we can afford to have such free wills, unknown heroes in political life making such proposals, from which we here then wonder how to deal with it, I don't know where we're going to get it. Once again: I am very glad that the colleagues from GERB will withdraw this § 4 will offer to be withdrawn, but this does not cancel out to look for who allowed it to do this thing and to seek its responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u97	The Council of Ministers. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It says here. It was submitted by the Council of Ministers, very clearly. Are there any lines? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! A lot of things have been said here. I understand we're in a pre-election situation, but a little self-respect. Well, in that sense, let's give the legislative activity to a concession, I'd say so!? Because some people four years of scary work. And they went to imagine visions, to meet people, to understand their pain. Why didn't you give yourself your legislative activity on concession?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, come on then, if you haven't understood, let's read the reasons for the bill. Page relevant, I read to find out what is going on: 60, para. 3 of the Law also defined the circumstances which were established in the procedure for determining the concessionaire. Two of them, according to the relevant point, refer to each concession with classified information...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This document you have on the website of the National Assembly, you have it and you should have dealt with it. Once again, the term of the "Concession with classified information" has been replaced by the concept of "concession in the field of defence and security" and "end of quote." Thank you. [[Applause from the OP. A line from the MP Milko Nedyalkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u99	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Are there any lines? Mr. Ermenkov, come in. Please, no yelling! In the plenary hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria are you, Mr Nedyalkov. I'll punish you next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, unfortunately, the reasons for a bill are not the texts on which the duties are conducted and fulfilled and regulatory requirements are introduced to people. Unfortunately! There may be a lot of things in the motives, but the text I read to you was unique and there is no way to interpret it any other way than the way I did it. So I understand what the motives were, but not once have I said that the road to hell is always paved with good intentions. And the second thing when you suggested, as a joke, that we give a concession to legislative activity. That's what we've been doing lately. There is no law in which there is no lobbying, there is no law in which, between first and second reading, proposals are not to be introduced which, let alone are not of the kind of concessions, but are of the kind of private private private concession for payment. So we're almost there, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other lines? Come in, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u102	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, first of all, I would like to start my line with one question: did Minister Karakachanov really not know about the proposed texts in the Law on concessions? Because here, apart from the problem that appears at all with the government's work, how the legislative activity of the Council of Ministers is initiated, how the laws are agreed, how quality these laws are.. is one side of the issue. The other side, naturally, is the problem with this area of the state, which is not only sensitive, but can never afford private companies to enter and carry out similar activities related to security and defence. This is a priority of the state and is related to all citizens. And I can't even imagine that you, in the form and explanation that there is a European directive, allow yourself to insert such texts by saying that the Ministry didn't know about such concessions in security and defence, given that there are enough properties in the Ministry, there is talk of supplies of weapons, ammunition and concessions are, you know, for a period of 35 years to 50. I would like to quote to you the same paragraph that you read, a little further up, saying that it is possible to accept that their scope is wider than the concessions in defence and security under Directive 2009/81 and so on. Why not read the full text, but selective? Don't run away from responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u103	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Is there a third line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Mihov, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I would say that the debate shifted from first reading to a specific text which is obviously not subject to our Rules of First Reading and this consideration. Secondly, I would not agree that political and election speaking should be so brutally and so categorically treated with national defence and security issues. In just days, we will be looking at the Development Program of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, which has already been adopted by the Council of Ministers by 2032. To be honest, I am a great pessimist if we approach this strategic document in the same way with party and election moods. And when it comes to avoiding responsibility, we cannot accept that. If there's anything you can charge us with, you can look for something else. But that on the issue of defence and security we have stood consistently, including Minister Karakachanov, in positions that risk being populist and politically attacked, it is obvious. The text of the motives is quite long, and when you read it, you will understand what it is about. This is not about what you say: we will give our army a concession. Absolutely not! It's deception and manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u105	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Are there any other statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 102-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2021. They voted 101 MPs: 77, against 20, abstention 4. The bill was passed in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u106	Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Colleagues, there are no new requests for the period 22 January 2021. The written answers are from: - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on two questions from the National Representative Danka Zidarova; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Alexandrov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev. We are waiting for Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova and continue with a question to Minister Petkova. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Wednesday, Denitsa Sacheva in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, and on all media, loud and fanfare, gave us the news that the government has foreseen for this year a total of 10 million under the National Employment Plan for active labour market policy and tackling unemployment. The most elementary comparison shows that 190 million were at stake in 2009. lv. under this programme, and now " 2021," in the midst of a health, economic and social crisis, this amount is only 83 million. More importantly, however, the state's spending on these policies has decreased more than four times and all against the backdrop of the daily growing number of people in front of the labour desks. According to data from the Employment Agency from February last year, the unemployed were 410 thousand, of which 163 thousand people were permanently unemployed. The tens of thousands who lost their jobs still have to line up in the queue of waiting for nearly a year of support from the state. It is time after four years of the final of this term, to tell you, gentlemen ruling, in words simple and facts indisputable: You have failed in the social sphere and have condemned to poverty and misery a large part of Bulgarian citizens who need a state of children, parents, people with disabilities, pensioners, young people. We read your management program in the social sphere. What do we see? Six priorities and each of them failure. First priority: you promised an increase in income through employment and increased labour productivity. How did you increase income through employment when Eurostat's data on poverty in Bulgaria is tragic?! 68% of Bulgarian families do not have the money to live normally, 65% of Bulgarian workers get the minimum or close to the minimum wage, and every third Bulgarian does not have the means to provide heating in his home. We are using data from 2019 to prevent you from saying that we are abusing and transferring the blame to the crown crisis. Then we registered 40.8% by Ginny's coefficient the highest level of economic inequality since World War II. Against this background, ladies and gentlemen, you have revised the Labour Code by increasing overtime to 300 hours and to 12 months the sum of working hours. Is this the productivity of your work that is on the back of the Bulgarian workers?! We were categorically opposed and offered a different approach to income policies by switching to progressive income tax, differentiated VAT rates for food and medicines, tools for determining the minimum wage, because in Bulgaria wages are four to six times lower than the average European and labour productivity about twice. Why? It's only the state's fault. I don't want to talk about the night labor rate, which until yesterday was 25 cents, and from today it's barely a penny. Therefore, a million and a half Bulgarian citizens chose to work outside Bulgaria. Your second priority is to promise care for children, care for all children and not only those at risk. You promised to develop a Law on child and family to guarantee the rights of all children, as well as changes to the Family Code, to extend the support for adoptive parents, neither the Law on child and family, nor changes to the Family Code. Nothing! That's what we're saying, says the National Network for Children, which last year wrote you an average of 3 for caring for the children! What does the National Network say about children? We live in a country that gradually kills their children; there are opportunities, there are funds, but nothing is done; it is looked at the money, the highways, and what should be invested in the future of the state is not done for children; every fourth child is exposed to poverty. The Court of Auditors has drawn up a report of the National Strategy for Poverty Reduction and Promotion of Social Inclusion. Do you know what the report says? Even the reduction of the population cannot lead to a reduction in the number of poor children, and this means that the state's efforts towards the factors causing poverty among children are ineffective. Your third priority is to promise a stable pension system that will ensure people's predictability and calmness in the long term, you also promised a recalculation of pensions. Here I can tell that failure is even greater. Where's your stability, where's your predictability? Currently there is chaos and there is no vision to protect the interests of Bulgarian pensioners. The problems pile up, on the one hand, is the scissors between the old and newly released pensions, and on the other, the advance growth only and only of the minimum pension, according to which the people with a small contribution are equalized to those who have imported much more and much longer, and from the third, the second pension pillar is facing failure. Let us not forget that you have also frozen the internship rate, and the signals to young people are: there is no point in bringing in the real insurance. The pension system has become a tool for your strong political decisions, whose bitter fruit we will all reap in the future. We have proposed a balanced and fair solution, which, by the way, I have also read as your priority a recalculation of pensions. The funds are available, but are now in the form of election aid, which condemns a large part of the Bulgarian pensioners to poverty and misery in the future. A fourth priority is that you have promised a system for expertise on workability, to have one, to transfer it to the NSI and to it to be an instrument for strengthening control over the misuse of rights by the pension system. Well, on that priority, nothing! Nothing! Zero! For people with disabilities, new legislation has been created, pending since 2012, yes, but only so far. The revisions started immediately, and today this new legislation matures on logs because the National Social Services Card is missing, which was postponed for 2022. For 2022, the establishment of the State Agency for People with Disabilities has also been postponed. Individual assessment is not at the heart of the need of every person... as it is laid down as a requirement in the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities and many, many other things. Not to mention that you also froze the odds that would increase the remuneration of personal assistants. I would also like to mention that last year you decided to increase the poverty threshold only by 6 BGN. for this year. And the poor, the disabled, on whom this poverty threshold serves to support them and who cannot defend themselves, who have a decision by TelK from 50% to 70% incapacity, do you know what an increase they received? Forty-two pennies! And those with severe disabilities, with the high rate of disability, received only BGN 3.42. A day, about a penny a day! All of this is a fact and all of this is a slap from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, but remember the fact that she knows who she is, where she is and why she is going?! Your last priority is adopting a system of measures to overcome negative demographic trends. Bulgaria disappears with 50 thousand people a year without the existence of a military conflict. The following is indisputable. The social policy conducted in Bulgaria led to greater differentiation, poverty and the risk of social exclusion of Bulgarians, while adding low birth rates, high mortality, low life expectancy and leaving the country a workable population, the results are tragic. The truth is this: you failed! However, there is also an alternative from BSP in these four years, starting from our proposals for tax preferences for young families and a minimum of 500 BGN. monthly for each 18-year-old child, through a comprehensive package of measures to support young people, ages, workers and people with disabilities. Such is the one-time aid of BGN 6500. for every second and third child of insured parents. Our request is to increase the amount of: the maternity allowance between the first and the second year to be equalized with the minimum wage; free medicines for children up to 14 years; free kindergartens; seniors not to pay income tax from work until the age of 26; compulsory recalculation of old pensions with income for 2015. There are many others and were part of our alternative budgets, part of the vision for Bulgaria and an integral part of our work during these four years. Social policy is the cause of the cause with care for the people. It requires honesty, predictability, competence, it is a bet that no one is abandoned, that we are a society, that we are a nation. Along with all the challenges in 2021 there is one chance that people will finally believe that Bulgaria can live better! It is time for strong reforms, it is time for real income policy, it is time for fairly defined pensions and for bold decisions on the demographic issue! In other words: it's time for change and the sooner, the better! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u108	God willing, as they say! Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Dear colleagues, we begin with the questions to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is from the MP Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev on the problems with electricity supply in the settlements of the municipality of Bregovo, Vidin district. My fellow Members, I am taking this opportunity to warn you that I want everyone to be strict. We have had the opportunity to prepare ourselves, we know very well what questions we will ask, and the ministers know what questions they will answer. Let's follow the procedure, I won't allow for many deviations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question to you is about power problems in the settlements of the municipality of Bregovo. I subsequently found out that the municipality of Novo village was in the same situation. As an MP from the district, I received many signals and complaints from citizens about the power outage for a very long period from 11 January to 16 January 2021. My question to you is: what is the reason for this situation, and what will the state do to stop this problem in the region and not to do so again?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Topchiev. Dear Mrs. Petkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Topchiev, the settlements of the municipality of Bregovo, Vidin district fall within the licensing territory of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria. They are powered by four points of average voltage. For the purpose of this reply, information was requested from the CEZ Distribution on the number of accidents occurring and the actions taken by the electricity distribution company. Based on the information received from CEZ Distribution, I inform you as a result of the icing of wires, heavy snowfalls, twists and fallen trees for the period from 9 to 15 January 2021, there have been numerous accidents on the electricity distribution network, including broken wires and broken poles on the medium and low voltage grid. From 11 January 2021 for a period longer than one day without power on the territory of the municipality of Bregovo were the town of Bregovo, the village of Baley, the village of Vrov, the village of Delena, the village of Kalina, the village of Kudelin, the village of Kosovo and the village of Rakitnitsa. 34 trafoposts and approximately 3597 clients were affected. Towards the end of the day on 12 January the power supply of the town of Bregovo, the village of Baley, the village of Vrov, the village of Delena, the village of Kalina and Kudelin was restored. In the villages of Kosovo and Rakitnica, the situation was significantly more complex and had much more serious consequences on the electricity distribution network. From CEZ Distribution is reported to have broken wires of 24 interstellar power lines, a large number of fallen trees, icing 30 cm in diameter and impassable roads. After removing these failures, power was restored to the villages of Kosovo and Rakitnitsa. For the period from 9 January to 15 January 2021 on the territory of the municipality of Bregovo, the electricity distribution company informed that more than 70 interstranges were restored by medium voltage networks and more than 200 interstranges by low voltage networks. More than 200 trees have been removed, falling outside the service areas of the power lines on the wires due to heavy wet snow. Over 70 insulations and consoles on medium voltage networks have been replaced. With regard to the need for the development of the electricity distribution network and in order to improve the quality and security of the electricity supply, the Ministry of Energy requested information from the electricity distribution company about the repair activities and planned for the region of the municipality of Bregovo, Vidin District Investment Programme. We were informed that in 2020 on 20 kilovolts of electricity supplied by the municipality of Bregovo, events were carried out on the cleaning of the service area of the electricity distribution network average voltage in order to ensure the required minimum distances between the tree crowns and the wires that will continue in 2021. The company informed that it had performed partial repair of a low voltage network at Trafopost 5 in Bregovo. The film was taken of six trafoposts on the territory of the municipality of Bregovo with thermal imaging camera and ultrasound detector. Despite all this information that has been provided to us by the electricity distribution company in relation to your specific question, experts of the Ministry of Energy will carry out a check in February on the results of which I commit to informing you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. Mr. Topchiev, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but I do not see in it what measures the state will take not to do this again. In accordance with art. 4, para. 2 of the Energy Act, the Minister appointed by order the mandatory indicators of the degree of reliability and supply of electricity, as well as the measures to cover them. Also in art. 75 The Minister of Energy conducts preliminary, ongoing and constant control of the readiness of energy outlets for disaster and martial law, and I understand from your answer that the state is not aware of its citizens and is re-emphasizing the responsibility of nature and the private company CEZ. This is just a visual example of how the GERB government washes its hands at all and does not care for the needy citizens who have been exposed to many inconveniences to not having heating in the middle of winter and in the middle of a pandemic, not having water, not having food and not having food. People called me about it. Therefore, I ask you to take all action to prevent this from happening on the territory of the municipality of Bregovo and the municipality of Novo selo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. Mrs. Petkova, you have the right to the back if you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Topchiev, I'll take the liberty of disagreeing with you. These provisions of the Energy Act, which you quoted, concern the following legislation: art. 4 of the Energy Act concerns the so-called cold reserve and it is the Minister's commitment to the security of the system with regard to the production of electricity. In other words, these are the necessary capacities to be set so as to ensure the production of electricity. We are talking here about the activities of a private company that deals with the distribution activity, so these are quite different activities. This activity is licensed, it is controlled and its parameters are respectively defined under the general conditions of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, so that all what the State needs to do, it has done as control mechanisms. I just informed you that a check will be carried out by the Ministry of Energy's control authorities in February. This check will be carried out on the basis of art. 75 of the Energy Act, which you quoted. This provision concerns verification of the technical condition of that energy infrastructure. So all that is within the competence of the state is done and will continue to be done in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. The second question to you is from the MP Christian Vigenin. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, on 7 November 2017 Three and a half years after the permission given by the Council of Ministers and three governments later, in your capacity as Minister of Energy, you conclude a contract for search and study of metal useful assets under art. 2, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures, in the area of the town of the villages of Voden, Gorska Polyana, Iglika, Kranovo, Malko Sharkovo, Sitovo, Sharkovo, Municipality of Bolyarovo, and the villages of Valcha Polyana, Golyamo Dervent, Lalkovo Municipality Elhovo. The area of the terrain is over 100 square kilometers. We are talking about an alleged gold field, with a study done before 1989. The contract is signed despite the fact that area.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the same territory there are also nine archaeological real cultural values.. three late-antic fortresses, one basilica, two monasteries, a late-antic settlement and two tomb mounds. The contract is concluded with Ltd., with the address of management apartment in residential complex "Mladost" and capital 100 BGN. I'm missing some of the things I've written since, in the meantime, after using the information on the issue, new property conversions have occurred at the end of 2020, and I'm starting to get confused who, what, and how does it own and how companies are converted into this case. In any case, their activities became active in the second half of 2020 and even without the knowledge of the owners the company entered their properties and began measurements, which naturally creates a conflict between the owners of agricultural land and the hunters. The contract in question and the upcoming studies were not informed in advance of the municipalities concerned, nor did the citizens have the opportunity to rule. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Dear Mr. Chairman, I'll save my time on the answer. I need another 30 seconds. Half of the population of the municipality of Bolyarovo is signed in a petition to end the actions of exploration and exploitation of the field, and the Municipal Council refuses to approve in the future any spatial plans defining territories for the extraction of metal minerals. By joining the words of the mayor of the municipality Hristo Hristov that people are more important than gold, please answer me the following question: do you intend to challenge the verification of the circumstances of the transfer of ownership between the contract company and the new companies and take action to terminate the contract on the basis of the clauses provided for therein? They also allow it, taking into account the position of the citizens of the municipality of Bolyarovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Dear Mrs. Petkova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, the permit for search and survey of the area was issued on 10 March 2014 and its issue was preceded by the implementation of the procedure under the Law on Underground Treasures. In addition, the following procedures have been carried out: in the period August "September 2013" the provided under art. 26 of the Law on Underground Treasures preliminary coordination procedure with the competent ministers responsible for the protection of the national security and defence of the country, for the protected territories, objects of cultural values protected by the Law. The obtained opinions of the ministries are positive, including the opinions of the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Culture. In view of the positive opinions received by the competent ministers, in accordance with art. 53, para. 3 of the Law on Underground Treasures, in the period November 2013 the month of December 2013 is the next stage of the procedure, namely coordination with all members of the Council of Ministers according to the order of art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure. The comments received by all ministries were again positive and some comments and proposals were made which were accepted and laid down as liabilities for the company owner in the contract concluded with him. The requirement of art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Underground Capitals by letters of 19 March 2014 issued the authorisation was sent to the Mayor of Bolyarovo Municipality and to the Mayor of Elhovo Municipality, again with no objections from the local authorities concerned. The permit for the search and exploration of metal mineral resources in the area is promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, p. 32 of 8 April 2014. During the statutory two-week period, there were no complaints against the issued administrative act, including from the mayor of Bolyarovo Municipality, whom you quoted earlier. On the basis of that authorisation and the legal procedure carried out, a contract was concluded in November 2017 for the search and exploration of metal minerals under art. 2, para. 1 t. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures. The contract entered into force after a positive decision on the compatibility assessment of the overall work project for search and study with the object and objectives of Natura 2000 protected areas, respectively by the Ministry of Environment and Water. Regarding the circumstances in your question regarding the transfer of ownership between the contract company and the new company, we should note the following: according to the provision of art. 23 of the Law on Underground Treasures permits for search and research or research shall be granted to natural and legal persons registered as a trader, who shall demonstrate the existence of the management and financial opportunities necessary for carrying out the relevant activities. Documents certifying the fulfilment of those requirements are annexed to the application of the company. The fact that a change has been made with regard to the ownership of the capital of the owner company is not grounds for termination of the contract. The control of such circumstances does not fall within the material competence of the Minister of Energy under the Law on Underground Treasures. The visated hypothesis does not overlap with the transfer of rights and obligations under art. 25, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law, for which an absolute prerequisite is the existence of authorisation by the Minister of Energy. It is worth noting that at this stage for mining works in the area of................................................................................... should not be spoken. The signed contract is for search and study and as such gives the company rights to carry out only a research program in order to search and evaluate possible fields of ores. In the event of obtaining positive results from this study, the company may propose a commercial discovery for registration. In accordance with art. 21, para. 7, p. 2 of the Law on Underground Treasures a certificate of commercial discovery may be issued only after the holder of an environmental impact assessment decision approving the implementation or of a decision not to carry out an environmental impact assessment under the Environmental Protection Act. In conclusion, what we can say is: in case there is such a commercial discovery, of course, a mandatory environmental impact assessment must be made. In the context of this procedure, all interested parties, including local authorities and people, will have the opportunity to express their views and opinions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u120	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. Mr. Vigenin, do you have a line? I assume you remember promising me that you ate half of your time with the question? I'll be really strict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u121	Me too. Thank you, dear Minister. Of course, I was expecting that answer you gave. Naturally, there is a time that has been missed.. whether because of ignorance, whether because of an understatement of the question, and the procedure has clearly reached a situation where it can hardly be stopped at this stage. What I would also like the citizens of the two municipalities to hear is that regardless of the stage in which the possible future study to be done is now in place, mining activities cannot begin without a number of additional actions, that is, this process can still be stopped, as the open method of mining activities is extremely dirty. I just want to say that part of the lands where the 2017 surveys are planned are the villages of Voden, Sharkovo, Gorska Polyana. The settlements of the villages whose animals were slaughtered in 2018 are again Voden, Sharkovo, Gorska Polyana. From the scope of the areas with natural constraints in 2019 the same villages have been taken out again "Voden, Sharkovo, Gorska Polyana." The population without network coverage of mobile operators is again in Voden, Sharkovo and the region. This is an absolute genocide to the people there, and the last thing they need are these mining activities. I also promise them that this issue will not be left that way, and I will make sure that there is no such mining action there, but we will do these things when the time comes. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Madam Minister, will you have the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, once again I would like to stress the following: here we are not talking about a contract for concession we are at the search and research stage. Here is the letter from 2014 to the mayor of Bolyarovo municipality, with which he is officially informed of what the investor proposes to do. No response or negative opinion has been received. I can provide you with the entire conciliation procedure with all letters to the relevant competent institutions and their replies. I use this case to assure both you and the residents of the municipality of Bolyarovo, of the municipality of Elhovo, that our main priority is to preserve the lives and health of the people. If demand and study result in a commercial discovery and initiates the concession procedure, I say again, there will be a mandatory environmental impact assessment here and within the EIA is the time when people and local authorities have to express their opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. There are no more questions for you. Before the questions to Minister Terziyski and Minister Avramova a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Ministers! Dear Bulgarian citizens, thirty-several years after the gloomy government and the hungry winter left in the folk art after the rule of BSP, should be remembered. At that time Bulgarian citizens of Bulgarian pensioners and Bulgarian workers were lined up for first-rate goods in the hungry winter of 1996. Then the Bulgarian pensioners received 3 dollars of pensions. Bulgarian workers, Bulgarian workers received salaries of the order of 5.. 6 dollars. This shameful winter and this shameful memory of the management of BSP should be reminded of the young Bulgarian citizens. Speaking of social, health and income policy, I would like to mention what has been done over the past ten years and in particular the last four of the government of the cabinet Borisov 3. The lightening of the economy and the reduction of smuggling to levels that are lowest in Europe to 3% of cigarettes, in the case of bequeathed 35 of 2009 cigarette smuggling in Bulgaria and other excise goods, the reduction to such a scale, the lowest in Europe, at 3%, allowed the Bulgarian treasury to enter funds to be spent for the increase of Bulgarian citizens' pensions, social policy, health policy. The minimum wages were gradually increased compared to the trend of the growth of the Bulgarian economy, which produces from 66 billion. lv. in 2009, more than twice as much Bulgarian productivity and production in the Bulgarian economy to more than 123 billion. lv. at the beginning of the mold crisis. The collected revenues in the treasury repeatedly exceed those collected during the beginning of the reign of Borisov's first term. This is what the lightening of the Bulgarian economy, the clogging of the holes in which billions of leva were to be allocated for Bulgarian pensions, for Bulgarian doctors, for the construction of new compartments, schools, sports halls. Not to mention the achieved construction of more than 400 km of highways in the last ten years, which has no analogue in Bulgarian history. In the previous 30 years it was not built so much. Speaking of income, social policy, social assistance and integration funds, only Borisov's last government has done more than all BSP governments have done so far for Bulgarian citizens in difficulties and for Bulgarian pensioners. The minimum wage is 650 BGN. of this year, the beginning of the term was 460 BGN. The minimum pension of the Bulgarian pensioner, who worked his whole life, was BGN 150. But to recall the low start that we had from 1996 to 1997, to 300 BGN, which the Bulgarian pensioner received as a minimum pension from 2021. Again thanks to the government of Borisov 3 and the collected funds in the Bulgarian state, in the Bulgarian treasury 50 BGN. in the last few months are in support of the Bulgarian pensioners, who are committed and are provided funds to be paid in all months of the crisis. Small but huge help for Bulgarian pensioners, who from BSP have repeatedly left to line up in bread lines and have nothing to warm up, spend money on medicines. The funds that the Bulgarian State on Income Policy, which the government of Borisov conducts, cannot be left in the background and that of Bulgarian pedagogical staff whose incomes were doubled compared to the beginning of the mandate. A commitment made and implemented by the government of Borisov. The funds of the Bulgarian policemen, the funds of those who care for us on the first line, continue to be paid from the beginning of the pandemic. All doctors, all nurses, all nurses since the beginning of this year have a corresponding increase in the remuneration of our medics by 600 BGN, of nurses with 360 BGN, and of nurses with 120 BGN. All this should not be forgotten that it has been achieved by blocking the holes in the Bulgarian economy and greater productivity, the new investments that in Bulgaria in recent years have created hundreds of thousands of new jobs, with high added value. Therefore, our economy produces much more than ten years ago. The average salary in 2009 was just over 600 BGN, while at the beginning of the Kovid pandemic was over 1240 BGN. Seven percent unemployment, which we now have due to a type of crisis, is one of the lowest in Europe. But let's remember the beginning of 2020, before the impact of the crisis, when Bulgarian producers and the Bulgarian field of services could not find staff. Unemployment in Bulgaria was in the order of 3.9%. These things must not be forgotten. Moreover, the social assistance and integration, which has been commented in the last few days, I think it is important to note that there has indeed been a double increase in the area of payment of these funds. They go for Bulgarian citizens who cannot take care of themselves or are in a difficult situation. The state hasn't forgotten them and will never forget them. These dark times will not come back, I hope never again, in Bulgarian history, as they went back in the rule of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. The Bulgarian business and Bulgarian workers were supported by funds over 2 billion. lv. until the moment when new funds are sought and provided to continue the employment programmes for the Bulgarian workers, because I hope with common efforts the health crisis will pass and the Bulgarian economy will quickly recover. But for this purpose we must keep the Bulgarian workers in Bulgaria and not return to the times of mass migration in the management of the Bulgarian Socialist Party when many Bulgarians fled Bulgaria to seek their livelihoods in Europe and overseas. I would like to conclude that in Bulgaria at the moment, even in this crisis, we are seeing strict compliance in recent weeks, although the most liberal restrictive measures for citizens and for business in Europe. The Bulgarian trend is in Bulgarian hospitals every day and less and less to register the patients with coronavirus. I hope that this trend will continue with a joint effort. The timely vaccination and prevention are extremely important, but then to think about the recovery of the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian funds that should reach the Bulgarian business. There was two days ago a commitment made by the Bulgarian ministers and the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Economy that the funds will be paid as quickly as possible. That is what I want to say to the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. It's really nice not to forget. Looks like the campaign has started. Let it be a competition of reports on the work done over the years, not new empty promises. We continue with the questions to Minister Terziyski. The first question will be from the MP Ivan Ivanov. Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u127	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on the eve of the elections to be held on 4 April 2020, once again we open a topic that is extremely important and to a large extent it determines the attitude of the Bulgarian citizens to the outcome of the elections, namely the honesty of the vote, the manner of their conduct. In this situation, one of the toughest and most serious roles in ensuring the integrity of the elections is the Ministry of Interior. We are all witnessed over the years of all elections the same figures, the same persons run, run, buy votes, load in the Roma neighborhoods cars, spread around the sections, prosecutors' checks and any other violations of the electoral legislation, which reject and validate the Bulgarian citizens more and more to participate in this process, which ends here with 240 MPs and the rating of this institution collapses with every next choice. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following question: what actions and what organisation does your office provide for ensuring the proper conduct of the elections for MPs and National Assembly, which will take place on 4 April 2021, to limit the purchase of votes, the controlled vote and any other attempts to influence voters and distort the election result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Dear Mr. Terziysky, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u129	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the main priorities of the Ministry of Interior during the preparation and production of elections for MPs on 4 April 2021 are as follows. Firstly, ensuring the security and legality of the electoral process, combating crimes against citizens' political rights, safeguarding public order and ensuring fire safety. These are the traditional duties of the Ministry of Interior related to the electoral process. Their main task is to guarantee the integrity of the vote and the rights of all Bulgarian voters. This year, however, the COVID-19 pandemic also poses another challenge to the anti-epidemic measures taken by the health authorities to ensure the life and health of all Bulgarian voters. In this sense, the key words for us are the effective interaction in order to comply with the legal provisions given by you as legislators. I am referring to the effective interaction of all our units, both with the institutions directly involved in the organisation, conduct and legality of elections such as the CEC and the Prosecutor's Office, as well as with health authorities such as regional health inspections. An operational headquarters under the authority of the Secretary-General has been established in the Ministry of Interior to carry out the election tasks. A plan containing specific organisational and management measures has been prepared. By force and means we will ensure the security of mass events, rooms for printing and storage of electoral papers, election sections, transportation of papers and technical devices for machine voting, as well as many others. Fire safety checks will also be carried out at sites related to the preparation and production of elections, such as buildings, printers, electoral sections. Operational and search authorities will work in the field of prevention, detection, violation of criminal acts against citizens' political rights, terrorist activity, participation in vote buying, cyber attacks and other serious crimes. Taking into account the successful practice, a 24-hour telephone line will be opened again by the Ministry of Interior and an email address at which citizens can report a violation of the electoral process during the preparation period, in the days of production and after the election is over. An immediate check will be carried out on each signal received. The good coordination and interaction between the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, the DANS and the other institutions involved in ensuring order and compliance with the law in the country is a prerequisite for effective countering crimes against political rights. An important focus of the operational interaction is to hold regular meetings between representatives of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office on the ground. Regular meetings are also planned and held with regional governors and mayors, aimed at achieving high results in the electoral process security. The Ministry of Interior interacts with the Central Election Commission in the implementation of its decisions, according to the established deadlines. During the election process, the Sofia Directorate of Interior and District Affairs of the Ministry of Interior are in constant coordination with the regional and sectional election committees, which helps to carry out optimal estimates when using police forces and funds. An organization is established for issuing in shortened time periods of ID cards and certificates for lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed ID cards and passports of Bulgarian citizens. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There is also a time to secure the participation in the elections of individuals who do not have valid identity documents on the election day. The Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior shall organise polling stations and draw up electoral lists in the presence of no less than 10 voters and inform the municipal administration of their removal from the electoral lists at a permanent address. In view of the pandemic situation and ensuring the smooth and safe conduct of the electoral process of all personnel involved in securing the security of elections will be provided with personal protective equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Mr. Ivanov, right to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, you precisely and clearly defined the legal obligations of the Ministry of Interior during the elections. Unfortunately, our observations and not only ours but also the Bulgarian citizens that in recent years these obligations of the Ministry of Interior in the part of crimes against the political rights of citizens, buying votes and so on somehow remain in the background and are ignored. Moreover, you have one challenge and if we can hear from you from the stand, with the latest changes to the Emergency Act, where there will be mobile sections. How are you going to provide security for these mobile sections exactly? Because I don't know which employees you'll do it with when you enter the homes of quarantined persons. And a very serious, flexible question that's been going on lately, in public space. One of your predecessors, the second person in GERB, from which you are now a minister, said he was your boss, you were an employee that needed rotation of the regional directors of the Ministry of Interior. What is the reason for his statements, there must be something behind those words?! How would you react to such a claim because he was a Minister of Interior from the quota of GERB, the second in the party?! And most of all, I am interested in how you will protect from the influence of the local coordinators of GERB, the local Velmoses of GERB, these regional directors of the Ministry of Interior, who are largely influenced and quite likely to have been political appointments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, right to the doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have asked some questions. First of all, in terms of guarding the mobile...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u134	New cell phones, not mobile ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u135	New mobiles, old mobiles. The organisation of the work of the police authorities for security and securing the electoral process will not be any different from the previous elections held. You know that machine voting was also held in the elections to the European Parliament. Yes, indeed now their number will be more, most likely more resources and police officers will be needed, but I assure you that we will deal with logistics and transport, and organisation and security. Regarding the second part of your reply, I will not comment on former interior ministers. I had the opportunity yesterday in a public television station to say that all directors of regional directorates of internal affairs are longtime professionals who have walked their career step by step and have moved from one management to another management level, including there are district directors who have been appointed during the management of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. We have no reason to doubt their professionalism, their impartiality and their authority, which they have among their subordinate employees, as I have until recently director of the Directorate General. Let us not forget that in addition to the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, I am including here the Sofia Directorate of the Interior, we have more than 170 heads of regional governments, who have also traveled a long way in their career development and on which the heads of regional governments have supported the organization before, during and after the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. I also thank my colleague Ivanov for the good question in the election campaign. We continue with questions to Minister Avramova, the first of which is from Mr. Georgi Alexandrov and Mr. Christian Mitev. I don't know which one of you is gonna come out and develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u137	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! In order not to directly repeat the exhibition that we have done with our colleague, we welcome all efforts made by the Ministry to build and rehabilitate existing transport infrastructure on the territory of Varna and Burgas. Actually, our main questions are three. What stage are the activities of planning and construction of the Black Sea Highway in the territory of the two areas? Is the second question provided for transport links connecting other elements of road infrastructure, i.e. other roads with the current planning projects of the Black Sea Highway, to bring traffic, especially of heavy goods vehicles outside the settlements in both areas? That's what we've missed, that we've specified only Varna region. Third, at what stage are the planning activities for the future construction of a second bridge over Varna and Beloslav Lake, the so-called second Asparuhov Bridge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u138	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Dear Mrs Avramova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, Mr. Mitev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Black Sea Motorway is a natural extension of the motorways of Hemus and Trakia. It also connects the main eastern centers of the Black Sea coast of Burgas and Varna. Its construction began in the 1970s, building about eight kilometers from the route. The construction of the motorway is of particular importance not only at regional level. Connecting the main road directions from North and South Bulgaria through the motorways of Hemus and Trakia will improve the access of international traffic to the two largest ports of Varna and Burgas, as well as the tourist flow to the entire Black Sea coast. During the period 2001 - 2013 there were several pre-project studies to develop options for a design route of the Black Sea Highway. An environmental impact assessment of the investment proposal has been carried out, cost analysis has been prepared and a feasibility study has been carried out for the city of Varna. Despite the above-mentioned developments, the final version of the motorway connecting the motorway of Hemus and the highway of Trakia is not available, including an EIA decision at the moment. Taking into account the importance of the site, in the past 2020, the Road Infrastructure Agency took action to develop an extended project, with full engineering geological research and detailed development plan of the Plot Plan of the Black Sea Motorway. On 26 October 2020, a contract was concluded with a contractor for the implementation of the above activities following a TPO procedure. The value of the contract is 9 million. 516 thousand. lv. with VAT. These studies between 2001 and 2013 provide a good basis for further analysis and justification of the project. It is planned that the new route will start from the highway of Hemus. It is planned to start around the village of Sunny, crossing the Varna-Beloslav Lake, a tour of the town of Varna, a connection around the village of Priseltsi with an existing highway route and from there to Trakia Motorway with a connection around the village of Vetren. The Black Sea Motorway will not pass through the settlements and resort complexes. In the project development special attention is paid to the possibilities for making connections between the highway with the adjacent settlements and the built road infrastructure. In suitable places road connections to the resort complexes will be designed throughout the Black Sea strip. The project will provide a solution for crossing the Varna and Beloslav Lake at the most favorable place, in line with the possibilities for making connections with the highway. In order to ensure access between agricultural and forestry areas located on both sides of the motorway, unconflict crossing will be provided. The project research period is 365 calendar days, which includes only the design time without the accompanying procedures and is divided into three design stages. The first one is 190 calendar days, the second one is 130, and the third stage is up to the final completion of 45 calendar days, currently developing the first intermediate stage. Following the transmission of the development in the required volume and content and adoption of a decision by the Expert Economic Council of the Agency, the Road Infrastructure is to choose an appropriate version from a technical and economic point of view, taking into account all environmental aspects, action will be taken to carry out the applicable procedures in accordance with the requirements of the Environmental Protection Act and the Biodiversity Act. After preparing EIA reports and issuing by the competent authority a final decision on them, a complete draft of the approved version will be drawn up. [[The President signals that time is running out.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. The construction of the PSU Plot Plan is also essential for the field provision of construction. On the basis of the extended project, a procedure for the award of construction of the Black Sea Motorway will also be announced. With the construction of the site will complete the country's motorway ring, which is one of the long-term strategic goals of the government. The connection of the main road directions of North and South Bulgaria to the highway of Hemus and Trakia Motorway will improve the access of international transit traffic to the two major ports. The Black Sea Highway is among the country's strategic infrastructure projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here's a line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Thanks for the answer. As a matter of fact, this is the first government, perhaps for a long time, which has taken real steps to implement the Black Sea Highway. You correctly pointed out in the answer that since 2001 "2013 such attempts have been made, but for the first time really start steps first for designing and then, of course, building this motorway. Yes, it will complete not only the country's motorway ring, but it is also extremely important for the economy not only because it will connect the port of Burgas with the port of Varna and will enhance the transport traffic between the two major district centres, respectively on the Northern and Southern Black Sea coast, but will also contribute to the development of tourism in both the north-east and south-eastern part of the country. So we admire these efforts and hope, of course, in the shortest possible time... In this regard, I open a clamp that has a clear plan when exactly the idea project will be completed, and that you have divided it into three phases is good, that is, we already have clear time frames to complete the idea study and design. Of course, there is still much work to be done to assess where properties must be estranged accordingly. However, I believe that in this regard the National Assembly has done a lot to make the procedures of alienation possible to the maximum extent so that the motorway becomes a fact. I hope, no matter who will manage after the 4 April elections, this will remain a priority strategic project. It is important not only for the Black Sea coast, not only for Burgas, for Varna, but also for the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u142	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the MP Nikolai Tishev. Here you are, dear Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have received numerous signals from the residents of Pomorie Municipality for compromising the newly built bypass and lack of constructed drainage infrastructure in Pomorie Municipality. The pictures attached to my question clearly show that the newly built underpasses for the passage of agricultural equipment and animals are flooded and therefore cannot be used. In this regard, my questions to you are: will the contractor be required to repair the damage, build and improve the necessary infrastructure accordingly? How is the object put into service when a part of it becomes dysfunctional in the first more abundant rains? Will there be sanctions for the performer? Since I sent the photos to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and you know them, it is nice for the Bulgarian citizens to see them, especially the residents of Burgas, to know how to spend their money. [[The National Representative shows pictures.]] I think these underpasses, where people, animals and agricultural equipment should pass, can compete with the canals in Venice. So with particular interest I will wait for your answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Dear Mrs Avramova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tishev, site road 1-9 Sunny Beach Burgas, tour of the town of Pomorie, section from km 270 to km 222 has signed Construction Act No 15 on 15 December 2020. The movement was launched with a project for temporary organization and safety, connected with the sector The maximum permissible speed for the section is up to 70 km per hour and for the site there is no signed Protocol No 16. To date, no authorisation for use has been granted. Regarding the specifics of your question, will it be requested by the contractor to restore the damage, I inform you that as a result of the heavy rains on the territory of Pomorie Municipality, Burgas District, in the first and second 10 days of January 2021 it was received, as well as you stressed, flying in the lowest terrains and zones around the newly constructed surroundings of Pomorie city. The Road Infrastructure Agency has taken timely action to pump the amount of rainwater collected, and after carrying out the activities it has been found that water is still being collected, which helps to take water away from the surrounding terrains. An inspection was carried out on the premises with representatives of the Agency, the contractor and the construction supervision on 25 January 2021. The Commission finds the following: inability to pass motor vehicles through parts of cross-sections, agricultural underpasses and waterfalls due to filling them with water and land masses due to heavy rains. In some of the facilities there are landslides from the surrounding excavation rays in the approaches and compromised parts of the elements of the road profile. The Commission found that the problems encountered and compromised elements of the road profile were due to the large amount of rain in a short period of time. This is not linked to the implementation of the construction works, with a view to which there are no grounds for the Road Infrastructure Agency to impose sanctions on the contractor. The builder will take action to restore the affected elements of the road profile, respecting the construction and installation technology, after reaching optimal water content of the road dump and under appropriate weather conditions on its own account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u146	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Right to the line.. Nikolai Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, it is good that the Road Infrastructure Agency has made the relevant checks and findings, but at least from the answer I have heard, I understand that this is all we will be left with. It is evident from the findings that we have poor construction, since even after pumping the water, it continues to collect in these low parts. When such infrastructure is being built, it should still be foreseen that in Bulgaria there are sometimes heavy rainfalls and this should be at stake in the project. From the answer I have heard, I understand that there will be no sanctions to the contractor, except that he will make some improvements, which is not a penalty. In this regard, the idea of the sanction imposed by the State authority is such that, in subsequent periods and in the subsequent draft of the contractor of such infrastructure projects, no such type of poor construction is allowed, which you yourself, although indirectly, shared in the reply. In this part of my question, I am not satisfied with your answer, because I was expecting some punishment after all. It is obvious that these parts of the road cannot be used and if we have another heavy rain in the summer, we will close them again and pump them. After all, it's the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u148	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Mrs. Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tishev, on the occasion of the drainage of the entire road facility, we are looking for a lasting solution. A few days ago, I was held a large meeting with representatives of Pomorie Municipality, the mayor of Pomorie Municipality, with representatives of Bourgas municipality. In the time back when the agricultural land was returned, nowhere were marked as a burden the drainage channels that are extremely important for these territories, both in Burgas and where we built this road facility. What we have united around at this meeting is looking for a lasting, long-term solution to drain large areas, including agricultural land. This is not just about drainage the road facility and the water quantities that are on the road, it is about draining the large terrains, which requires a lasting solution. The design and construction of a drainage system that permanently resolves the issue. Because the drainage of the agricultural land will continue to be a matter of both the tour of Pomorie and the tour of Burgas, where we start its construction. So we are looking for a joint solution and we will implement it not only for the road drainage facilities themselves, but also for the drainage of surrounding terrains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u150	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the third question to Minister Avramova. Question from the National Representative Manol Genov on the poor quality of drinking water in the water network of the village of Brestovitsa, Rodopi municipality, Plovdiv district in the last few months. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u151	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, however little we may be in this House! Dear Minister, in the last few weeks in the village of Brestovitsa, Rodopi municipality, Plovdiv district, there have been several protests of local residents about the poor quality of the supplied drinking water. At the level of 50 micrograms, according to Regulation No 9, its rates reach 1000 "1,200." These problems have been noticed in a timely manner by the local water service operator. The appropriate measures have been taken, but I would like to tell you that I was at one of the protests that tensions among people are growing very much, and with it is also growing distrust of the institutions involved with this problem, as the principal of the water operator, who has the commitment to deliver and perform this service in this populated area. Madam Minister, what measures has the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works targeted, what will happen or already happened? This is my question to reassure these residents, to know and to believe in the institutions that are involved with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u152	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Genov, the problem was found at the beginning of last year. The water supply to the village of Brestovitsa and the village of Kadievo, municipality of Rodopi is carried out by the water supply system of Brestovitsa with the underground waters of pipe wells located in the terrace of the Vucha River, three pipe wells for the village of Brestovitsa, one issue for the village of Kadievo. On the terrace of the Vucha River, near the village of Kadievo, is located Pompena Station In February 2020 and in regular laboratory studies carried out by Plovdiv, a higher content of manganese in three drilling wells of Pompena Station was found in the area of Plovdiv. The company immediately informed the competent authorities of the identified water source deviations. By order of RZI Plovdiv, the water in the network of the village of Brestovitsa is declared unfit for drinking needs. For its part, the Water and Water Services.. Plovdiv takes measures to limit the content of manganese by aerating the water flow and subsequently filtering it by installing self-cleaning filters. The operator also provided drinking water to the population through three watermen located in the village of Brestovitsa. In order to establish the genesis of the increased manganese compounds in the water of the village of Brestovitsa, Plovdiv has also taken the following actions: it has been found that due to the built-in mini hydroelectric power plant "Kadievo" and the adjacent threshold of the Vucha river is the river terrace in the area of the Pump Station. As a result, no normal flow of the river has been ensured and there has been a bloating of its water in the boiling zone. This led to a change in the performance of the water extraction from the water wells of the village of Brestovitsa. An investigation was carried out on the bringing and distribution network, which found that manganese deposits were present on the walls of the water lines. In this regard and at the insistence of the "Water Supply and Sewerage" Ltd. Plovdiv, the municipality of Rhodope has commissioned a study and design of the reconstruction of the water pipelines serving the village. By order of 20 August 2020, the Regional Governor of Plovdiv was appointed Interdepartmental Commission to establish the source of water contamination with manganese and other harmful substances. Following a review, the Commission has expressed its view that hydrological changes in the river have occurred as a result of the built-up mini hydroelectric power plant "Cadievo', such as the water area, the water mirror formed after the construction of the water current, is significantly greater than that in the developed and approved detailed design plan for the construction of land-based properties representing water and water mirror. Technical expertise and geodetic filming have been assigned on the basis of the drawn-up protocol. By order of the mayor of the municipality of Rodopi for mini hydroelectric power plants "Kadievo" has approved a detailed development plan by the main architect of the municipality of Rodopi in 2012 and 2013. After the implementation of the construction in 2015 the DNC was granted a permit for use. By my letters of 7 December 2020, I have ordered the National Construction Control Directorate to carry out a verification of the findings of the Interdepartmental Commission relating to the establishment of the conformity between the approved project and the constructed facilities of the mini power plant Cadievo. The results of the inspection of the Regional Directorate for National Construction Control "Plovdiv," carried out on documents and through a view of the site on 15 January this year, are as follows: until now no reports of illegal construction have been received by the owner of the mini power station "Kadievo" or other violations of the order of the Law on Construction on the territory; no files and actions have been taken against the contracting entity. In the process of co-ordination of the project there are issued permits and consensus opinions by the competent authorities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the light of the above, no further works were found to be carried out after the construction was put into operation. In order to determine the conformity of the area of the water mirror with the area approved under the project, the RDNC takes the view that it is necessary to wait for the results of technical expertise and the Geodesicical filming carried out on the basis of the verification of the committee appointed by the Regional Governor of Plovdiv. From the RDNC Plovdiv, a new check will be carried out after the provision of geodetic filming. At the request of the Regional Governor of Plovdiv District to the "Water Supply and Sewerage" Ltd. was formed an additional specialized expert commission of hydrogeologists and experts for the treatment of drinking water. The commission's task is to establish at expert level the factual situation, the possibilities for removing and limiting the development of processes, as well as the identification of appropriate technically sound and economically justified lasting solutions to be implemented within a short period of time. The water supply is ready to meet its commitments to solve the problem in case the measures concern the company's competence. At the same time another lasting solution is sought, such as a change in the water source and a search for power options from another water source if no solutions are found to improve water quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u154	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Mr. Genov, come in. I deliberately did not interrupt Minister Avramova because this is an important topic. She's been talking for a little over three minutes, but I think the information she's leaking is important to people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u155	Madam Minister, I understand, I've been there, I know what's going on. Here, from the tribune, you have listed a number of institutions that are relevant to the coordination, the approval of this detailed planning when the construction of this hydropower plant began. However, I ask, who controls the waters? You didn't mention: is there an opinion of the EIA, is there a report, what is it? In the end, in order to arrive at this blur, which initiates and is the probable cause of the appearance of manganese because of the gluttonous processes that occur in this water mirror, who has allowed and in what way does the threshold of this hydroelectric power plant be built? You say one committee, another commission, the district will do a check, the water service has a commission. Okay, I agree, but two months we can't find a discrepancy between the original approved project and the actual construction. Because it's still a power plant. It's the river. I've been there. There is another problem of these waters is expected one day, hopefully not to happen, and the bridge of the railway line will fall. This is also a big problem, which is again for these reasons. And in the end, will you signal the Minister of Environment and Water as a responsible institution for what happened afterwards? I don't know as well as you, you don't write it here in your answer: is there an opinion, is there a report, I repeat once again, is there an environmental impact assessment? And another thing is this water mirror is spreading across the territory of two municipalities. In my opinion, in order to avoid the filter of the Regional Expert Council, this project is agreed only with the Municipality of Rhodopes. This is also an interesting fact of reflection, and I would say for a more serious inspection. You said we were expecting results. I hope that the experts involved will give such an assessment and indicate if there is a need to make a new water source, and you, as minister and principal, will engage in the fastest way the people in this village of Brestovica to be reassured, because eventually the water flowing from their taps is not only unpleasant to appearance for use, but is also dangerous to human health and life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u156	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Genov, I have just said and I will now repeat that in the process of coordination of the project there are permits issued, there are coordination opinions from the competent authorities, including from the Swimming Directorate. This is an authority of the Ministry of Environment and Water. We wait as a competent authority for the RDNC to be able to come up with an opinion on the unlawfulness of the area of the water mirror, we wait for geodesic filming and we will take immediate measures if it turns out that what is currently found as an area of the water mirror does not correspond to the construction papers and does not comply with the detailed construction plan. We are ready and there are talks held Bulgarian Water Holding and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works through the water holding company to finance actions for lasting solution of the problem. There have been conversations like this. Ilian Iliev, who is the CEO of the water holding company, has already had meetings, so we are ready. Permanent decisions, which this commission and all control bodies, and the Water and Water and Water Controls, have been set up as possible solutions, we will finance them, we have such readiness so that people from the village of Brestovitsa can receive clean drinking water that they can use. For your information and for the relief of people in Brestovitsa, yes, we are also prepared to provide funds for the water infrastructure for both the replacement of the pipes that have deposits of manganese and for financing of water source, if this is the lasting solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We should thank Minister Avramova for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next are the questions to Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The first question is from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev on Bulgaria's participation in the European initiative to ensure European technological sovereignty and industrial competitiveness in the digital world. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, my question has long been in parliamentary control. At first I had asked the question to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, responsible for European issues. Turns out you're the competent minister. So we come to the opportunity to see the position of the ministry in charge of one of the political challenges and scandals in my country is perhaps not a very significant issue, but I would like my country to find a place in this type of European initiatives, namely: On 7 December 18 Member States of the European Union signed a joint declaration on the implementation of a European initiative in the field of microelectronics. By this declaration, Member States undertake to work together to strengthen the European industry by increasing investments in microelectronics and in the whole process from equipment, design, production, testing, deployment and validation of these devices. These large-scale investments in key economic areas aim at guaranteeing European technological sovereignty and competitiveness globally. This initiative creates synergies between national research initiatives of individual Member States and provides a coherent European approach to microelectronic development on a more global scale. Dear Minister, if we want to turn Bulgaria into an attractive place for development of high technologies, our participation in this initiative is necessary in my opinion. And the question I am asking you is: why has our country not joined this good European initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u160	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. For a response the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Zhelyazkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, the European CPU and semiconductor technology initiative aimed at strengthening European technological capacity and industrial competitiveness was examined in a working group at the Council of the European Union for the first time on 23 November last year. The final version was proposed on 2 December 2020. The initiative stems from the new EU Industrial Strategy announced by the European Commission in March last year, focusing on strategic technologies for Europe's industrial future, including microelectronics. As noted in your request, the signing of the declaration is linked to a commitment by the State to secure investment both from the European Union budget and from the national budget. These investments are aimed at developing next generation processors and semiconductors, i.e. they are aimed at stimulating a particular industry sector. In the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability, in the Pillar "Innovative Bulgaria" part is provided for funding in order to shorten the supply and reindustrialization chains by attracting and holding in the industrial parks of strategic investors. In addition, the Programme "Innovation and competitiveness in enterprises" envisions supporting the development of Industry 4.0 by introducing digital technologies and solutions, promoting the introduction of Industry 4.0 technologies into enterprises, which is directly linked to the objectives of the declaration. In this regard, the Council of Ministers approved, on 20 January this year, my report on the award of the following activities: The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall consult the IT sector and submit to the Minister of Economy the opinions received by interested parties as soon as possible; The Minister of Economy to take action to join the Republic of Bulgaria in the joint declaration of the Member States of the European Union in the field of microelectronics. In accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, a public consultation was launched on the joint declaration of the Member States of the European Union in the field of microelectronics and interested parties may submit their views by 1 February. The beginning of the consultation is published on the website of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Boychev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will be pleased if we complete this procedure successfully and Bulgaria joins the Initiative. By the way, I believe that Bulgaria should be, or at least I would like Bulgaria to be, a leading country in the European Union on all such initiatives. I want and think that we have the right conditions and talent of Bulgarians Bulgaria to really become an attractive place for investment and development of all such innovative technologies and initiatives. We can achieve this and I hope in these strategic plans that the government is currently developing and you are quoting, including in national recovery and sustainability plans, to set these objectives and to be secured with the necessary funding. We have no right to miss this opportunity. You know, it is hardly another time that we will have the opportunity to attract this type of funding, to restructure the Bulgarian economy and to make it a really high-tech development model that we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Mr. Minister, will there be a duplicate? No. We move on to the next question, the last one for today. A question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin on ensuring full coverage of mobile service networks by mobile operators. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The problems with the coverage of mobile service networks by mobile operators continue from the very emergence of this technology. In previous years different steps have been taken by the CRC, but imperfections in the legal base and perhaps deliberately created gaps allow mobile operators not to reach full and quality coverage, most often affecting border and less populated areas of the country, which makes them even less attractive for living and investment. Perhaps many of us have also faced the problem of casual connection with the mobile operators of neighbouring countries in the absence of a signal from a Bulgarian operator. When it comes to the members of the European Union, Romania and Greece, this no longer brings financial surprises, but it is particularly serious in my electoral area of Yambol, where, for example, the networks of Turkish operators, a megabyte mobile Internet in roaming costs 20 BGN, and a minute talk is five. In 2020, coverage problems gained a new and even more serious dimension. Because of the poor coverage, it turns out that a significant percentage of students do not have access to mobile internet, and hence cannot be included in the distance training imposed for months because of the pandemic. The argument with the lack of adequate coverage of the country is also pointed out by representatives of the ruling GERB party for rejecting the ideas for direct broadcasting of the counting of ballots and drawing up the minutes of the elections this year. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what measures does the Bulgarian government intend to take to ensure full and qualitative coverage of mobile service networks across the country by mobile operators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u166	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, regarding the issue of full coverage of mobile service networks by mobile operators, it should be noted that access to electronic communications services outside the usual commercial practices for each citizen is governed by the Universal Service Concept in the Law on Electronic Communications. It is indicated that the same is a set of services of a certain quality offered to all end users regardless of their geographical location on the territory of the country at an affordable price. According to the provisions in force, which comprehensively list the elements of the universal service scope, the Law on Electronic Communications is currently clear and detailed. Currently, the Bulgarian telecom company is the undertaking with obligations to provide all elements of the universal service scope. The Law provides for a mechanism where the supply is linked to unfair burdens, to be able to claim compensation for proven net costs. The Ministry has developed and proposed transposition of Directive (EU) 2018/1972. This draft amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications proposed the introduction of the amended legal framework into national law. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications was submitted for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly at the end of September last year and the deadline for the introduction of the European Code for Electronic Communications was 21 December last year. With the proposed amendments to the draft Law, the concept of universal service is developed to reflect the progress of technology, market development and changes in demand for users. The new regulatory framework modernises the universal service regime by concluding broadband access to the Internet within the scope of the universal service, which will be determined on the basis of the possibility of using certain online services, offering a minimum set of 11 services, including maintaining basic online training and education tools, and using electronic administrative services. All users must be granted access at an affordable price to the available service for appropriate broadband access to the Internet and voice communications services with the required quality at a specified location. To this end, the National Regulatory Authority will define the appropriate broadband access service to the Internet to ensure the width of the frequency band necessary for the participation of citizens in socio-economic life. With regard to the availability and accessibility of the universal service price, the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications ensures that users will have access to an appropriate broadband internet access service and voice communications services at a fixed location at an affordable price. The Communications Regulation Commission will be able to impose on one or more undertakings providing these services the obligations to provide their service to the whole or part of the territory of the country. The Communications Regulation Commission will be able to impose on these enterprises to take special measures for people with disabilities, as well as to offer people with special social needs or with low income tariff plans or price packages other than those offered in normal commercial practices, and there is no restriction on the technical means used to ensure the connection, allowing wired and wireless technologies. The possibility that, where the provision of the universal service is linked to an unfair burden on the undertaking, it may be compensated for proven net costs. The introduction of the above-mentioned change in the scope of universal service in national law will be an incentive for undertakings to deploy broadband networks and services in places where there is currently no strong commercial interest due to the declining population. The possibility of broadband access to the Internet being provided as a universal service will bring undisputed benefits to end-users. Currently, as an example of stimulating the development of electronic communication services in smaller remote settlements and as an extremely successful project for Bulgaria, it can be pointed out the construction and maintenance of free Wi-Fi zones in a number of municipalities under the European Commission's Wi-Fi4EU initiative. With regard to the issue of unconscious roaming in border areas, I would like to inform you that both mobile operators in Bulgaria and the Communications Regulation Commission have taken a number of steps in the direction of information campaigns how the population in these areas should avoid involuntary roaming. Current information and user advice on this issue can also be found on official websites on the Internet. Another security mechanism is to receive a short text message.SmS, the end-user's device whenever it is registered in the network of foreign operators. In addition, the Communications Regulation Commission is in the process of developing a mechanism for limiting cases of unconscious roaming registered in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria by means of mobile application, warning consumers and collecting information about areas where unconscious roaming is registered. I would like to point out that the digital technologies of individual communications, including high-speed Internet, are extremely important both for the economy and for citizens, allowing them to be connected. This is particularly relevant in the current complex situation caused by the epidemic. In the created emergency situation, electronic communications allowed many people to work and study remotely, remain informed and maintain contact with the outside world during an isolation period. Taking into account the importance of digital connectivity, the recovery after the pandemic and the potential of digital entry into all spheres of socio-economic life for the rapid and sustainable development of our country, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications proposed that the project of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan should be included in the project. The main objective of the project is to build a symmetrical gigabyte network connectivity for access to the entire country. The sustainable optical network combined with the universally accessible mobile network will allow every citizen, every business, every public institution to use the opportunities for digitalization on equal terms throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u168	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I'm a little hesitant about what line to make, because everything sounds very wonderful, but nothing like this has happened so far. And I don't know why, because these problems aren't from yesterday, they aren't from that day, they go on for years. And here we talk in the future and continue to promise people some good things, but they want the Internet now, they want coverage of the networks now. We are talking about the distant likely future, unless something really shocking happens, which will finally make the state pay attention to digital technologies. People are currently joining my constituency and the border areas on the Internet with 150 BGN. initial fee and 30 BGN monthly fee. How many of the people who live there can afford similar prices? In fact, through the lack of interest of the state in the quality of life of the people there are created similar niches for companies that exploit the fact that the state has not done its job there. Mobile services are no longer luxury, they are a necessity like electricity and water. It seems to me that it is often even a matter of life and death, since where there is no access to such services, you can't call an ambulance, you can't reach out in time to get medical help. I give one of the examples to which this lack leads. The pandemic will soon be a year. A year since problems with the lack of access to a number of settlements occurred, respectively nearly 10% of students, on average statistically who did not have access to mobile internet, were therefore unable to participate in e-learning. Since then, I have dealt with other ministers with this matter, and I have come to you, and I see that nothing will happen until the end of your term. I think that an option should be sought for some type of public-private partnership, commitment of the state and municipalities, which are ready together with mobile operators if they have to share costs, but to ensure this coverage. However, it cannot become by itself a municipality by municipality or municipality in direct communication with the relevant companies. There should be coordination at country level to make a full review of these problems and to help these things happen. I think it's a normal practice that could be implemented quickly. I don't know, I can't thank you for the answer, because everything is in the future time, without deadlines. If you could say in your reply when any of this would happen, however, for some indication that in the next term the next MPs could ask the next minister why what Mr. Zhelyazkov said did not happen within the period he gave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. A hole? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u171	Dear Mr. Vigenin! Perhaps because of the limited time of three minutes I read the answer to your question quickly enough and semantically perhaps I should do the following details and additions or repeat some things again. The repeal of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications is from last year in the National Assembly. I hope that within the framework of this Parliament's mandate, the same will be adopted. There is plenty of time within the regulatory capabilities and subject of regulation, as I stressed in my reply, also goes into the scope of the universal service broadband access to the Internet. This means high-speed connections through both mobile and fixed transportation of electronic communications. Also in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which will be presented to the European Commission in February, with which the Bulgarian government plan is ready in its second version of the plan, and I hope that the same plan will be approved by the Commission within April. I quoted the broadband project, for the construction of broadband highways for gigabyte connectivity, which will be financed by the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, in sizes that are currently specified, together with the undertakings themselves. An important element, which is to be introduced with the amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications, is the possibility, by entering into the universal service scope, of providing a broadband access service, especially for undercrowded, remote, border regions, as well as for people with special needs and in terms of reducing tariffs that normally do not constitute an interest for undertakings in normal commercial practices, to compensate them as bearing an unfair financial burden. This mechanism is the right mechanism, which will allow precisely intervention of the state, and not as you rightly note that this is not a work for solving a piece. So I hope that, as soon as the Law on Electronic Communications is adopted, the Communications Regulation Commission will impose on the undertakings concerned this possibility with the corresponding compensation in cases where such unfair financial burden is borne, such as mechanisms always exist in the provision of services of general economic interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-29.u172	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. That was the last question, colleagues. The next regular plenary session shall be on 3 February 2021, Wednesday, at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
