ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly are published today, as of today it is in force, so we start working on it. We've adopted the zoning act, so I expect everyone to work and act like real MPs. And in this regard, since our main task to be done is the formation of the committees, I ask for the Chairmanial Council, by doing the real work before the control, perhaps if we have time to rest, so that we can discuss the numbers and compositions of the committees. Let's start with: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE FACTS AND ASSISTANCES ON THE ACTS AND IMPOSITIONS OF THE COMPETENT BULGARIAN AUTHORITIES WITH REGARD TO THE INSTALLATIONS OF THE BULGARIAN PHYSICAL AND JURIDICIAN STATES BY THE OFFICE OF CONTROL OF THE MONENCY OF THE MINISTRY OF THE UNITED AMERICAN STATES OF THE USE OF THE GLOBAL LAW Please submit the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention the following draft decision: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning the actions and omissions of the competent Bulgarian authorities in relation to the sanctions imposed on Bulgarian natural and legal persons by the Office for the Control of Foreign Assets (OFAC) of the United States Ministry of Finance on 2 June 2021 on the basis of the Global Law The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall establish a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning: (a) the actions and omissions of the competent authorities which should have monitored, identified and applied the legal methods for sanctioning acts which constitute significant corruption and abuse of state institutions in order to obtain personal profit from Vasil Bozhkov, Delyan Peevski, Ilko Zhelyazkov and their companies in view of the sanctions imposed on 2 June 2021 by the Office for the Control of Foreign Assets (OFAC) of the United States Department of Finance on the basis of the Global Law Madam President, please remain silent in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u3	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u4	(b) the actions and omissions of the state authorities responsible for implementing the measures against money laundering in connection with the sanctioned and designated as involved in significant corruption in Bulgaria on 2 June 2021 by the Office for Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) of the United States Ministry of Finance on the basis of the Global Law of the United States of America on responsibility for human rights violations; (c) the actions and omissions of the competent authorities (e.g. DANS, Prosecutor's Office, NRA, BNB, etc.) with a view to applying effective and adequate measures to limit and exclude risks from the occurrence in the Republic of Bulgaria of the consequences of the sanctions imposed under the Global Law "Magnitski", including non-sanctuated natural and legal persons, the stability of the Bulgarian banking and financial system and the functioning of the state institutions. 2. The temporary committee shall hear representatives of the competent authorities of government and local self-government, collect information and documents to establish the facts and circumstances of the matter. 1. 3. The temporary committee is set up on a parietal principle by two MPs from each parliamentary group. 4. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: The President: Members: 5. The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I won't. We're closing the debate. We are going to vote on the Draft Decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission. Only in the name do I see a correction in the legal basis. It should be art. 36 according to yesterday's Rules. I put to the vote the proposed draft decision together with the correction I have made. Vote 174 MPs: for 174, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from ICN and DB.]] The motion is accepted. I ask for proposals from each parliamentary group to two Members of Parliament, including a Chair. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is such a people that we propose as Commissioners Ivo Atanasov and Andrei Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u7	Thank you. From GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u8	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of GERB-SDS we propose Daniel Mitov and Toma Bikov, as Daniel Mitov we propose as President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u9	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u10	Madam President, from BSP "Philip Popov and Dimitar Danchev for members."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u11	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! We offer Nadezhda Yordanova as a member and chairman, and as Commissioner Atanas Slavov. The arguments for this, as we will have to choose between two candidates at least for President, are that the object of the work of the Commission will be the activity of bodies during the management of GERB and it seems slightly inappropriate for the President of the Commission to represent this power. You will decide how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! We, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, propose Mr. Hamid Hamid as a member and President of the Commission, given the actions and omissions of the authorities and institutions and a person with sufficient legal and parliamentary experience, and to Mr. Tsvetan Enchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u15	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u16	Thank you, Madam President. As Commissioners, we propose Maria Kapon and Tatiana Doncheva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u17	Thank you. We are now going to vote. I propose to put the chairmen to the vote in the order of their entry. I put to the vote the proposal for President of the Commission - Daniel Mitov. Vote 187 MPs: 48 against 111, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for the President of the Commission "Nadezhda Yordanova." They voted 190 MPs: 118, against 49, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from ICN and DB.]] The chairman has been elected. Shall I submit the third proposal to Mr. Hamid? The result could be anything. Okay. I also put to the vote the third proposal for President of Hamid Hamid. They voted 183 MPs: 27, against 75, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. I am now going to vote on the members of the Commission, as they were proposed, with Mr Hamid Hamid, Commissioner, and Mr Daniel Mitov, also Commissioner. Vote 191 MPs: for 191, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted, with this and the item on the agenda is exhausted. Moving on to: HEARING OF THE PRESIDENT AND THE COMMISSION'S MEMBERS FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION OF THE BENEFICIARY 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE INVESTIGATION AND CONFIRMATION OF THE BUSINESS PLANS OF THE VICTORS AND THE PRICES OF THE WATER AND CANALISATION SERVICES Please activate BNT 2 cameras in accordance with the regulations that are in effect today. Mrs. Manolova, come in. Are you going to present the questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u18	What about the clearance?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u19	According to the Rules of Procedure, the hearings are also on BNT-2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u20	The President's clearance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u21	Permission to the chairman of the KEWRC? I'm sorry, yes. As he is not a member of the Cabinet, I ask the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be admitted and heard in the plenary session. Thank you. Vote 156 MPs: 151 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I request that the President and the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission be invited to the plenary. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! From January 1st next year, there is yet another drastic increase in the price of water throughout the country with an average of around 30% for the next calendar year, but by the end of the next period of time by up to 127%, with the highest price in Sliven District, or at least such is the demand of the water operators. Drastic are the required increases. For Shumen, where water is practically unfit for drinking and from the taps flows mud, where water is problem number 1 is required from next year the price of water to become BGN 4. and 60 sq.m. and by the end of the next period of time. and 50 cc. It's not water. It's not water. This is because of the water reform, its implementation started in 2016, as a result of which reform, apart from increasing the price of water in settlements across the country, nothing else happened to the targets that had been set, neither people started drinking more quality water, nor the quality of the service improved, nor the problem of waterlessness was solved, nor leaks and losses in the water networks were reduced. In fact, with an increase of nearly 70% in the previous five-year period facing people, Bulgarians as consumers, received absolutely no improvement in water supply. Against the backdrop of rising the prices of all the main food products, against the backdrop of the serious increase in the price of electricity, the drastic increase in the price of steam and hot water this blow, which will bring the water operators with the blessing of KEWRC, will really affect the pocket of the Bulgarian citizens, the ordinary Bulgarians. The water reform carried out by the previous majority envisages the adoption of five-year business plans, which practically nail down the percentage by which water prices will be increased over the next five years. The business plans of the water operators were presented. At our insistence, thank God, the KEWRC announced them so that citizens can see with their own eyes what their water operators wanted. And the reaction did not delay the protests in Haskovo and Shumen, rejecting the demands of the water operators and in Shumen with the firm position of municipal councilors in Shumen of all colors, by stopping the upcoming increase in the price of water with the voices of the municipality in Montana, tensions in Kyustendil and upcoming discussions throughout the country, which will show the opinion of the people of this interview with the Bulgarian consumers. And since the role of the KEWRC is not just to be a defender, a courtier of the demands of the monopolies, of the energy companies, but to seek and find a balance between the interests of consumers and energy companies, so we of the parliamentary group of We are coming!.. we asked for this hearing in order to hear the position of the regulator and his intentions regarding the discussion and adoption of the business plans. Apart from that, from the parliamentary group of the National Assembly, stand up BG! We are coming! "We have introduced the respective bill, which will legally stop this madness, this abuse with the Bulgarian people, in which, apart from raising, raising, raising prices, Bulgarians have neither the support of the state and institutions nor the understanding of the operator. I expect that in its presentation the President of KEWRC will tell about how KEWRC respects the opinion of consumers, whether the commissioners have finally come out of their comfortable offices of Dondukov and have gone to the country to hear face to face the problems and opinions of Bulgarian citizens, and what will be their reaction to this unprecedented request to raise the price for the next five years. I leave aside that the KEWRC in terms of prices and heating and electricity has become the role of an oracle, of a seer who is assessing in a year's time what the cost of natural gas will be, what the parameters will be. In this case KEWRC, for example, predicts in five years what the price of electricity will be, imagine. And if the forecasts of the regulator came true with a little more accuracy, surely the problems of the Bulgarian consumers would not be of this nature. But now the regulator has courageously assessed in five years what will be the main parameters that will affect the price of water, and in the implementation of these instructions the water operators have proposed this bold increase in the price of water.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u23	Mrs. Manolova, time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u24	I say again: for 2022 for Water and Water Sliven up to 49%, over 30% for Smolyan and Shumen, for Yambol, for Vidin, for Sofia district.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u25	Mrs. Manolova, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u26	Until 2026 Sliven Water, 127%, Kyustendilska Water, 104%, Shumen 89%, Yambol 88%, Burgas 84%, Vidin 83%. These are the proposals. Let's hear from the highest parliamentary tribune what will be the reaction of the energy regulator.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u27	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to inform the National Assembly about the issues at the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is indeed an honor for me to be able to speak before the country's legislative authority and to actually expose the policy that follows the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the water sector. Nearly three months ago, such a hearing had to do with the price of electricity. Regarding the water sector, first of all, I would like to dispel a suggestion that Mrs. Manolova made in her statement that these are prices that really offer water operators, but these prices are almost going to come into force. No! These are prices that are only offered. But, as you know, Nikolai Haytov's works say: "It's one thing to want, it's another to be able, and third and fourth to do it. " Currently the water operators do want too much increase in the prices of the water services, but this does not in any way mean that the regulator will validate such prices. On the contrary, if the Commission's accounts are checked in the last six years, it will be found that the regulator continuously restricts such excessive demands by the water operators. First of all, let me report the procedure. By 30 June, water operators were obliged to submit their business projects to business plans as well as price applications in the next five-year regulatory period. There was a delay on the part of some water operators and this was due to the fact that the business plans had to go through an opinion of the Association on Water and Water in the relevant area. In any case, a six-month period begins until the end of the year in which all these business plans, some of which have a volume of over 50 pages, should not only be checked, but should in dialogue with the operators, the Commission's experts demand additional data, demand additional arguments for the requested increase in prices and only after that this will be at the end of the year, the regulator will rule by a decision that will be very different from what the water operators currently want. However, although we are at a very early stage and the business plans by the regulator have not been addressed, I would like to point out what are the main pricing elements in the price of the water supply services where the water operators insist on an increase. It may seem strange to you, but half of the costs of the water service operators go to the Fund. About 15,000 people work in the water sector. I checked the average wage in the country for the first quarter of this year. It is of the order just over 1,400 leva. On the water operators the average wage is just over 1200 BGN, which means 200 BGN. Less than the average wage for the country. This was probably the reason why talks and negotiations were held between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the water holding company and the trade union of the CNSB and on 21 January to come up with an agreement in which it is explicitly stated that the water companies implementing their investment programmes require an annual growth of 15% of the basic salaries for 2021 compared to 2020 and for the entire following regulatory period. This is done with a clear desire to achieve an average salary in the water sector corresponding to the one in the country. It would be very good to hear from the head of the regulator, both the Association of Water Operators and the Bulgarian national trade unions. Because they are asking us to, and I can show you, numerous declarations stating that there are no personnel to work for these low wages, and there are no engineering personnel, i.e. engineers in the water sector, to ensure a normal functioning of water operators and their activities. For this reason, the water service operators put in their business plans the agreement reached and waged a 15% increase. The second component is the price of electricity. For different water operators, electricity costs vary between 15 and 40% depending on whether or not fully pumped water is used first and foremost, or water is also used by gravitational route. These costs shall be changed in accordance with the change in the price of electricity. The promotion there for the country is about 4%. This is not the problem of the water operators, but just one part of them did not take advantage of the opportunity given to them to choose an electricity supplier through the specially constructed platform by the regulator and thus to achieve normal prices. Those who did not do so receive electricity from a supplier from a last resort where prices are undoubtedly higher. What can be done to reduce costs? Above all, increasing energy efficiency, which is the work of operators themselves. Secondly, achieving energy independence by installing RES installations on roof structures. This is already done in Stara Zagora, in Troyan and elsewhere. Thirdly, when a request for the supply of electricity is made in a certain way to do so with the use of the Bulgarian Water Holding, which has such a task to carry out general management of the procurement procedures. Only after all this at the next place, about 10 to 15% of the cost of forming the price of water, these are investment costs It should not be forgotten that much of the water infrastructure in the country is extremely worn out, which was built with asbestos cement in the middle of the last century, broken by earth tremors, by loading the pavement and so on. As a result, it is essential that these costs be incurred in order to maintain normal water supply in different areas of the country. Otherwise, it will reach a catastrophic state of the water network, which is not in the interest of the Bulgarian consumers. To conclude this opening statement, I would like to point out that, both in the previous years and now, the regulator is obliged to protect the public interest. This does not just mean the interest of consumers. We must also protect the interests of the water operators themselves, where I say again 15 thousand people working with an average salary below the national average. In such a way, we find a balanced solution that, on the one hand, does not lead to the financial performance of companies, on the other hand, to avoid a sharp increase in the cost of water services. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We are now going to ask questions from each parliamentary group. There's such a people. Come on in, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, it is clear from what has been said so far that even at the stage of presentation of business plans they are wrong. Since you have yet to correct them, you will renegotiate them, what real business plans are we talking about, and for the next five years? In this regard, I would like to ask you: is an analysis of the implementation of the previous five-year business plans with what is planned? What's done? If we have the same situation again, what is the point of this technology of developing business plans? Do you have a proposal to improve the process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u31	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission carries out an annual verification of the implementation of the business plans. In a certain way, in correspondence with the water operators themselves, we encourage them in what way and to what extent to meet the long-term goals that are already bet upon in the development of business plans. Moreover, according to the current method of drawing up business plans and price formation after the third year before? 2019, an analysis of the implementation of investment projects are being carried out, including as costs in business plans and are taken into account in price applications. Where investment projects are not implemented or only partially implemented, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall deduct this amount, which has actually been collected by Bulgarian consumers but has not been used or at least not been used for the purpose of investment projects, and shall be reimbursed to consumers, which is expressed in reducing the cost of water of water services. In the first 5-year regulatory period from 2017 to the end of 2021 it was precisely as a result of this verification and control by the regulator of 17 water companies that the price of water for consumers was reduced. This can be established from the Commission's site for energy and water regulation. Naturally, we have encountered strong resistance from the water operators, but the decision we have made is fair because where people have given money for investment and they have not been made, the money must be returned to consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For a question from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, please come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u34	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, my question to you has an essential measurable part in which we may need to find an answer in today's debate. Business plans, naturally prepared and offered for your approval, certainly have the extremely important component and it is the price. For users of the water service and users of any service, the most important ratio must be between price and quality. Therefore, in what form do the business plans and the regulatory authority find a balance in quantitative indicators? If you can provide such information in the formation of a price of the water service to consumers. Is this measured in the reduction of consumption and also the loss on the water supply network? Also, do these business plans that will be adopted guarantee a continuity of the provision of the water service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivan Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you are absolutely right that the business plan does not only contain a forecast for changing water prices. Moreover, they are primarily subject to the price application of the relevant water operator. The achievement of quality indicators for water services is extremely important. Of the fifty-several indicators that were generally proposed to us as a regulatory basis, the Commission confirmed, as I recall, 29 indicators and bet on each water operator a long-term objective for achieving these indicators. When I said that operators were sanctioned after a third year not only because of investments, but also because of unachieved quality indicators, rather because of the level of quality indicators, they were subject to sanctions by the regulator. Before it comes to sanctions, we repeatedly at special meetings or correspondence mark the state of quality indicators. We strongly support all actions that lead to achieving this level, which was generally laid down in the relevant business plan. I don't have the opportunity now, but I can tell you the cases where this is not generally achieved, because maybe you could ask me this, too, is there another option to use the regulator, i.e. to cut the price separately? What is not understood, unfortunately, by the Bulgarian society we set the limit prices of water, we do not determine the price of water. We're setting price limits. This means that this price serves to protect consumers, that the water operator, who is a monopoly in the territory concerned, cannot raise the cost of water as he chooses. From this price down, especially when there are outstanding indicators, the water operator itself should reduce the price, but this can also be done through the Water Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u37	Thank you. From BSP for Bulgaria.. Welcome, Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u38	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, my question is precisely on the subject that you were just talking about. It is about the price of the service provided for consumption We all remember the drinking water drama in Haskovo. Water with heavy metals, ineligible sludges, reactions in settlements for missing data, what people drink, what they wash, see cloudy water through the taps, even refuse to wash the household dishes with them. Media reports from all over the country about these situations. There is one right now. Go and ask the residents of the Plovdiv village of Brestovitsa if they have for months more important problem than the drinking water they supply them. My question is as follows: what is the position of the water regulator in order to introduce the possibility for water companies to be obliged to provide drinking water at temporarily reduced prices of this service, which is provided during this time when it is proven to be of reduced quality? Because we should not all close our eyes and ask for months of cloudy or poor water, which is fed with various impurities, physical impurities of heavy metals, to be paid as an absolute regular and quality one. I don't think that's normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u39	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov! In the previous answer, I partly advocated this question. Undoubtedly, the case of Brestovica is not the only one, but it is a very significant deterioration in the quality of drinking water, which was also shown in news reports. What are the options of the regulator? Rather, people say: at such times can the operator be sanctioned with a sharp reduction in the cost of water? We are talking about the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, we do not have such powers. We have a requirement, first, to determine the water price limit. It is explicitly stated to the operators that when they did not meet the stated indicators, they could.. and this should be encouraged by the Water Association to reduce the cost of water. That is one thing, I would say, a fair decision that the operator must make. Secondly, when it is said, however, especially in Brestovica, a lower water price than other municipalities, where there is no such problem, according to the Law, we are obliged to set a single price of water for the entire territory operated by the water operator. You know, Mr. Genov, because you are dealing with this matter, that it was one of the requirements of the European institutions that they should be increased within the relevant areas of the water operators and have a single cost of water. Many times I have been asked to divide the cost of water into pumping water and the cost of gravitational water. According to our law, the Water Services Regulation Act has been determined this single price. Only through a change in the Law can such price differentiation be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov! My question is related to the guarantees that these business plans can give to ensure the water supply service in accordance with the requirements for volume, quality that has already been discussed, continuity for all consumers, with questions: what are the measures that are provided for in the case of stopped water supply for more than 12 hours, for citizens to be provided with alternative sources of water and therefore to be promptly informed and compensated for disruption of water supply, as are the cases in many settlements, especially smaller settlements, in the summer? My second sub-question relates to the interaction between municipalities and companies within the regulatory framework. Is it acceptable for municipalities to develop their investment plans in parallel to water companies to improve water supply, which creates a risk of improperly or at least non-optimal spending of public resources to guarantee a service that is included in the water supply and not in the municipalities? And thirdly, does there exist in the regulator an information system that really registers all violations in the implementation of the water supply agreement on the basis of which data-based analysis is to be done and not just individual signals from victims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shalamanov! I will start almost backwards because the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, answering the first part of your question, annually performs a check on the state of implementation of the business plans by each of the water operators. The results of this check shall be entered into the Commission's information system, they shall be accessible to all, including the users of the water services. Secondly, what you are saying, in a certain way I replied that we annually show the water operators, through this analysis, where they need to step up the measures to achieve the relevant results, i.e. where to focus their efforts. If we are looking for increased control, clearer enforcement guarantees, a licensing regime for water operators must be introduced. This is the practice in energy companies and in the same way could, and I consider it particularly useful to do for water operators. Because in electricity companies, the licensing regime has existed relatively long ago, but now, from 1 October, we are introducing it for all gas companies, natural gas traders. Because, in such a way, all control measures, including all sanctions, are actually provided for in the licence, and the control over the activities of companies is much stricter. I hope this will be done because this requires a change in the Law, as amended by the Energy Act, in order to introduce the licensing regime for gas companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, colleagues! I regret that Mrs. Manolova is not here to address her as well. She invited the regulator to ask questions and to draw conclusions from what is happening in Bulgaria about water supply networks, about the prices being submitted by associations. And I would ask the question as an ombudsman she is perhaps aware, perhaps not that today, in the 21st century, in six municipalities there is still a water regime in Bulgaria and in 367 settlements, villages that have one hour of water per week. Not every other day, not two, but one hour of water a week in these 367 settlements! In the Forty-fourth National Assembly, the then Minister of Regional Development, when we talked about these topics, the main task of the task was to start investing precisely in replacing the underground water supply infrastructure, the sewerage networks, mainly on the water supply network, which has really already been so erotic that at least in the first place the country needs about 14 billion to be able to cover these water costs already around 80% in Bulgaria, and on average 60% in the larger places that are leaking into the soil, and we citizens pay as used water. So what goes into the water supply network, we pay double or triple the cost. That is why prices are rising in Bulgaria. And that has to be decided categorically. I wish the new government, if any, the task of their tasks is to be this one. Because in the 21st century, we can't pay for water that we don't use today. With this erotic system, what happened? Over the years, we have invested in drinking water treatment plants, sewage treatment plants, and from water supply networks to settlements and within settlements, all that should be used as conditionally clean water, we spend it in the soil without using it. The point is that we pay for air as well. Because when there is a mode and when we release the water meter spins, although at least half an hour of air comes to release the water itself for use by the population. Dear regulators! It is important to ask the question of all associations, all water operators who come to you, what they have bet and whether they have made technical projects to apply to European and national funds to change these plumbing networks, which contribute to raising the price precisely in this direction. You in these plans have to demand this. Another is the question I saw with my own eyes, the last three months I have been a MP from the city of Plovdiv how in the region of East in three blocks three months has not stopped running drinking water on the streets. And it's still flowing, and I can't explain in the 21st century to pay for expensive water, and eventually the drinking water runs out into the streets. This issue must be resolved and my question to you is: do you require in their plans their investment projects for future investments in water operators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ali. You've almost doubled your time. Please observe the time! Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali! Indeed, water is a source of life and that is why it should be used rationally, especially in the climate changes that occur not only in Bulgaria but on a global scale. What you have put as a question really concerns not only these settlements, but around 700, as far as I remember, there are others who are in heavy water mode. The decision requires serious investment. On this occasion, I would point out that the Bulgarian Water Holding was created with 1 billion. lv. budget precisely to help the water operators: first to prepare such projects, second to help finance these projects. Not to assume all funding, because the principle is always allocated responsibility, i.e. the water operator himself to participate in the financing, but to be supported. I hope that, through the Recovery and Development Plan, there will be funds again to develop infrastructure, in general terms, in these relatively declining areas, which means, on the other hand, that water infrastructure itself will be strongly supported. Each of the water operators, when receiving funding for their investment projects, receives it from several directions: the one from the European funds, above all from the Operational Programme "Environment"; secondly, from the Republican budget through the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; thirdly, from the POSO for water consumption and discharges, the fees that are collected are also used for development of investments; and fourthly, by the VAC operator himself. Since the water service operator has no sources other than the fees it collects from the population through the cost of the water services to participate, I would say that in a certain level of moderation to increase these prices, to achieve a better quality of the water services in the country. Otherwise, I've also been to places where once a week people have water, which is really a tragedy. But this problem has another reflex. Some of the villages in Bulgaria are already with between one and ten inhabitants. At the same time, the water supply operator is obliged to maintain the water supply structure to any such locality. You understand when reducing the number of people, reducing the consumption of water the means of maintaining weigh much more as a percentage of the costs incurred by the water operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Come on in, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, it is a very precise time for you to be here, in the building of the National Assembly, and to discuss precisely the topic of water problems throughout Bulgaria. Some of you are aware that yesterday, one of the very large Bulgarian villages in Dobricha Municipality of Stojeer, announced a partially dire situation because of the fact that for four months there is simply no water or when there is, it is for a little, very low quality. In fact, 1500 Bulgarian citizens are in a water use regime as if they live in the 19th century in a European country in the 21st century. As you rightly mentioned, this is not the only place, although there is already a partial disaster situation and should make us think about it, so is Bulgaria, so are other villages in the country, and in Dobrich district, which comes to show that there is a systemic problem with the water network and with the way the water operators are controlled about how they deliver the service and how they form their price. Since you, Mr. Ivanov, and your Commission is not responsible for the water network, I am fully aware of this, but is still responsible for the way the water prices are formed, and as we should note that in Dobrich district the water is 3.00 BGN, VK Dobrich has not yet asked for a new price of water, they still haven't submitted their business plan. You may be giving us other information, but as far as we know, it is still not uploaded to us on the KEWR site, I want to ask you: what happens to water in Dobrich, first, and with its price, and with the proposed new price; and second of all, what are you if you at the VKK, when you form your business plans, to predict prices, say, at the current or minimum wage, for five years? How do they determine the price of electricity in 2025 and 2026, and by what methodology? Have you given them instructions for this? And the related question: how do they determine social tolerance in five years, because according to the data we have, part of the business plans indicate that 3.2% will increase social tolerance? So the question is: do they have a crystal ball to determine how in five years' time the minimum wage will change? And the related question: is it logical for business plans to be for five years, or should they be for a shorter period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u51	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Delchev, as Water Dobrich is indeed one of the most problematic, I would even say the most problematic water service operator in the country, if you have followed, there including the management of the company has been changed several times, but the situation has not been improved. About 80% of the water is lost.. was due to poor infrastructure and perhaps because of theft. On this occasion, our requirement to make a realistic and at the same time a business plan that reflects the goals put forward by the VK Dobrich to reduce the loss of water, as well as to achieve other quality indicators -- especially for the VK Dobrich -- we have given a one-month extension for the submission of the business plan, and within this month we maintain contact with the management of the VK Dobrich for the preparation of a business plan that can be implemented. You also raised the issue of investments in general, which are in the sector, respectively, in the water and water. In order to improve the state of the infrastructure of Water Dobrich and hence the quality of the water used by Bulgarian citizens who live there, many funds are needed. For the whole country to fully rehabilitate and build infrastructure in all settlements, 12 billion are needed. lv.! Repeat, 12 billion. lv.! However, what do the water operators use? I will give you directly data that are public.. They are in the Commission. Between 2009 and 2013 the investment in the water sector was 83 million compared to 12 billion. Between 2017 and 2020, investments are 106 million... they are growing. Probably in the next regulatory period, it will grow to 125 million, but it is very far from 12 billion. lv.! This is funding, which you understand for yourself, can not be provided once, cannot be provided within one or two years, because there are other sectors in Bulgaria that need very serious investment............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The aim is for them to be rationally used. This is the reason why the Commission carries out checks annually. Currently, we want information from the Water Dobrich about the problem that has occurred in the last week. After all, because it was also about salaries, if the Agreement was implemented between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works "The Agreement was signed by Minister Petya Avramova, Ilian Iliev from the National Energy Holding and from the CNS "Mrs. Treperushka Mladenova was the head of the water union...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u53	..Windsurveillance!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u54	...in January of this year, this means that within five years the salaries of employees in the water sector will increase by about 75% and catch up with the average wage in the country. And besides, I have to provide labor.. I also said in the very beginning that if things do not change to better pay these people, much of whom work almost minimum wage, we will find ourselves in a situation where there will be no labour even for emergency repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Let's move on to the second questions. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, according to the presented business plans of the water companies it is clear that the highest increase in water is envisaged for Sliven district from the current around BGN 2.38. for a cubic meter of, notice, BGN 5,40 provided in the business plan, provided that this increase is accompanied by continuous leaks, from low pressure and so on. Since you connected, you linked pricing to the financial situation of the water companies and to the costs of them, I have a specific question for you: what is the financial situation of the water supply company Sliven, is insolvency disguised as a result of incompetent management and is this the reason for the planned sharp price increase in the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u57	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Rusev, your question is related specifically to the Water and Water and Sliven, and the serious promotion that is requested is not established and will not be confirmed, but is requested by the water operator. The business plans have only just begun, which is why I am unable to give you accurate information as to the financial situation, because there are over 50 water operators and those that are aligned...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u59	These are specific questions! This is an unacceptable matter!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u60	But if you wish, Mr. Rusev, I will send you the information in writing about the water supply. In addition, I would like to point out that the most common, of course, and MPs are protesting a serious increase in the cost of water. Note that the business plan and the price application before joining us in the regulator after it is drawn up by the water operator is considered and a positive opinion is given by the Water and Water Association. What is the composition of the association? The Chairman of the Association is the Regional Manager and its members are all mayors of municipalities, which are in the territory of the respective Water Operator! In other words, the local authorities in the face of the mayors have approved these prices that the water operator has requested! Why? Because they have considered the need for serious investment actions in the territory of the Water and Water. But we will, of course, look carefully at the presented business plan, it is only a project, and in no case will we come to this increase that has been requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the problems in the water sector are long ago and are visible and clear to everyone. The topic of water price for consumers is not a new one. It is periodically exploited by part of the political forces in order to raise political dividends, without, of course, insight into the details and without offering specific solutions. Whenever we discuss this subject, it is important to make a few key points. First of all, the funds needed to replace the depreciated network are of the order of billions. You mentioned about 12 billion just now. Companies operate in over-regulation mode and represent quasi-market entities that form incomes at a certain upper limit at a price and costs are at market prices. And of course, rising electricity prices, material costs, wage growth and other overheads must be taken into account and compensated. The care of natural resources is the care of people. Drinking water is a human good and companies are obliged to guarantee access to drinking water for consumers, which means investment in the water sector and the quality service network. In this regard, my question is as follows: exactly how much is the total amount of planned investments of all water companies in the proposed business plans to improve the quality of the service provided? Does it match the number you mentioned earlier? And I have one question: is the business plans designed to raise the wage of employees in the industry because it is known that salaries in the water sector are one of the lowest and gravitate around the minimum wage? This is an injustice that we believe must find its solution. Fair wages in the sector also lead to more incentives for employees, respectively improving the quality of the service and better support of the network by hiring and holding highly qualified personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u63	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shishkov, I was impressed that you in the stands said that the salaries of the employees in the water sector are indeed extremely low and this must be understood by the MPs. They are also Bulgarian citizens who are very low paid. We need to take care of them now as everyone else does, and care for them is really going through a correction of the cost of water so that there can be funds to raise their salaries. About the investments. I said some data. However, I would like to repeat that it is only now that business plans are being reviewed. We cannot give such a summary picture. We will give it in autumn for sure, after seeing Mrs. Maya Manolova's activity in the autumn, I will also be... rather the next President of the Commission will be invited to present to you the current data from the summary results of the analysis of the business plans. However, the funds for investment in the water sector are undoubtedly increasing, as in the last accounting year, because we do not yet have the full report for 2020. For 2019 it is 113 million. lv. I really hope that the water sector will prove to be one of the priorities of the next government, regardless of what it is and when it will be done, in the next government we will also protect the water sector before the European institutions for targeted, stronger funding of all investment projects in Bulgaria in the field of the water sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From BSP for Bulgaria, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! It is clear to all of us from the questions asked and the answers so far that the long-awaited reform in the country's water sector has long been drowned in nothingness. Water reform has been rolling for 10 years and responsible institutions, when it comes to it, often begin to stutter. The long management of GERB has made a huge contribution to this immersion of reform in the years. We're waiting for a law, I don't remember how many years, maybe about a decade, but he's not here yet?! Meanwhile, companies, as you have heard, operating with this service are no better with investments, nor have the losses of the water supply network decreased. They are constantly being reduced, but contrary to our promises that we have accepted to the European Union, we do not achieve the levels that we have bet in 2017 and we have solemnly promised to the European Commission. I have not counted how many times we, from BSP to Bulgaria, have proposed in the last mandates to bear in mind the burden of a social bearable price, not that it is not now in regions when the price is formed, but the state dares to introduce a water aid regime to the most vulnerable and socially weak layers in the country. We had done preliminary accounts years ago even with the rulers we had reached a consensus, so in the law that should have been revealed many years ago. There are solutions to this meeting for deadlines for viewing this law by the National Assembly, but all of this somehow froze. There were excuses with a type of crisis 2020, there were other excuses, but, unfortunately, such a law, and how much it needed, as such, another issue, but still the government at that time had made a commitment to it being a fact, but that did not happen. And what do we see? The enchanted circle continues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u67	Mr. Genov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u68	A few seconds. My colleague from the DPS got a big bonus, I got a smaller one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u69	I know, I know, that's why I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u70	Let's get back to the subject that nothing has changed. The enchanted circle stands. There are companies that are on the brink of bankruptcy, there are companies that in time will not be able to operate with their smallest costs in terms of resolving some accidents. Finally, honourable Members, as a representative of the BSP for Bulgaria, it suits me most to talk about how the price of water should be low, how should be free, how people should pay it when they have money. But, unfortunately, I'm sorry, there's no such movie! Doesn't mean that expensive water means a good water sector or cheap water means a good country. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u72	There was practically no question for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u73	You're a professional, Mr. Ivanov. You need to get this out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u74	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, you have put again the clearly ill question concerning the need to improve the overall activity in the water sector and this should be done, but above all it should be done in the so-called Growth Strategy for the water sector, which expires in 2022, and it should be recorded in detail all activities in the water strategy, it has been adopted as early as 2012 and must go through changes in the laws. The Commission shall then, as so far, take due account of any such changes in its regulatory base. These are the regulations of the Regulation for the regulation of the price of the water services, and the Regulation for the regulation of the quality of the water services. I would like to point out something that relates to your speech with the so-called water aid. The law allows it, but it requires the adoption into the budget of funds to secure such aid. But a few years ago, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission wrote a special letter, a proposal to the Social Ministry, but we received a waiver from the introduction of such aid due to the need for additional funding. Otherwise, I agree with you that increasing the cost of water will lead to this part, I hope little, from the Bulgarian population will experience certain difficulties in using this vital element of our everydayity. And another thing that makes an impression when I look at complaints in the water sector and statistics. There are too few complaints related to the cost of water, which means that Bulgarian citizens, unlike the topic of today's hearing, do not put the cost of water first as an insurmountable factor. However, they want water quality, quality indicators and investments that really contribute to achieving these quality indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Welcome from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u76	Mr. Ivanov, I'm also addressing the MPs! We have all been familiar with water problems in Haskovo for many years. Unfortunately, over the past few years Haskovo Municipality has been lied to for many years for launching a pre-investment regional survey to include funds for the reconstruction of the water sector in Haskovo District and Haskovo Municipality, because this is one of the biggest problems of the old, hedging water supply network that is constantly drying up. In the 21st century the town of Haskovo every day is in mode and constant accidents. Unfortunately, there were four people from Haskovo District who at Monday's protest, we defended precisely Haskovo haskovos with the need to start some change and some investment in Haskovo District. I strongly oppose the appreciation of the price of water, as the quality must be good in order to protect the price accordingly. After everything the MPs said and Mr. Ivan Ivanov concluded that it was the municipalities in the face of the mayors, the municipal councillors, the district governor, the MPs, that we are the people who have to protect our citizens who we represent and have a fair price. Mr. Ivanov, I would like to ask you, because we are preparing a legal change that will allow different locations to have a differentiated price in the different water systems. We are talking about small municipalities, closed loops, and in the relevant area. This issue is also extremely important not only for Haskovo District, as there is an unfair price formation against others who are gravitational and pumping. That question is really very hurtful. I want to ask you: will such realization, in your opinion, be any success, and is it realistic? That's my question to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u77	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u78	It's a procedural question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u79	Yes, Mrs. Mikova, come in, yes. What's your procedure? Just tell me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Paneva, first of all I will start with the water supply. The Water and Energy Regulatory Commission has not yet submitted to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission their business plan because the Water and Water Association did not come up with a decision, although the business plan was considered at a meeting of the Association. Obviously, no majority has been reached to adopt a certain decision. The decision that could actually be adopted is either approved with such an opinion to come out of the Association and submit the business plan to the Commission, or to return the business plan with mandatory guidelines for changes which, after their introduction, allow the Association to adopt the business plan. In principle, the Commission examines business plans only when they have passed a positive opinion from the Water and Water Association. There's, of course, one deadline to pronounce the Association. If it does not rule within that time limit under the regulatory framework, it shall be deemed to be a silent agreement with the proposed business plan. This is on this first part, and only when the business plan comes will I be able to talk in detail about the further ways to solve the problems of the Water and Water and Water, the town of Haskovo itself, of the fact that a few years ago there was radioactive pollution and so on. But that is why, of course, the principal should be treated first, not the regulator. The next thing you put in place to change and introduce differentiated prices. I have mentioned that a mandatory condition that has been set by the European Commission is the introduction of a single price. This does not mean that the Bulgarian National Assembly cannot accept a change in the Law with which to introduce a differentiated price, but it means that we will not receive European funding, which in some cases is extremely important for the various water operators, without which funding they will not be able to implement this relatively modest investment programme, which they are betting in their business plans. Therefore, it should be handled really very carefully. I understand very well that people who have used water produced by gravitational means have sharply increased the cost of water in order to introduce a single price, unlike those who used pumping water. However, the return to two categories of water prices, apart from what I said, would stop European funding will already lead to protests of this part of the population using pumping water, because their price will increase at the expense of the price in municipalities where water is produced by gravitational means. Therefore, it is the National Assembly that must be very careful to rule if such proposals to amend the Law are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u82	Dear Madam President, Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Ivanov! I didn't mean to say anything, but you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u83	Mrs. Zaykova, you can't speak! Mrs. Zaykova, I'm going to take your microphone! We're in the middle of a hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u84	I have a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u85	You have no question. The question has already been exhausted by the group of "There is such a people" and our second question has been asked. If you want the way you conduct, the group has plenty of time that will not run out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u86	No, no! I just wanted to ask a question. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u87	There's no question you can't ask, because... You can ask one of your colleagues, Mrs. Manolova, for example, to include it as a question for her.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u88	Hey, guys, can you give me a break? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u89	No, she wants to ask a question. Mrs. Zaykova, I suggest that we do not violate the regulations, that your question be asked by Mrs. Manolova as a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u90	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u91	Thank you. Mrs. Manolova, let's not break the rules of his first day. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u92	Thank you, Madam President. I congratulate you on your efforts to comply with these rules that you adopted yesterday. Dear colleagues! I think I'll ask the questions first. Mr. Ivanov, I have always welcomed you for your patience and your attempts to be independent as a regulatory authority in setting the prices of licensing enterprises and when you are concerned about the issues and the water companies. Of course, many questions have been asked and the main thing that arises is: what to do with the infrastructure of the water companies? Infrastructure in small towns? Then the question is the price of this investment? And now it seems that this circle.. often every member of parliament can stand here and ask you the question for example, and I tell you that in the village of Topolovo they flood every week, but they do not have drinking water. Yesterday there was a fire in Starosell, a house burned down by an old woman due to lack of water! The inability of all managers to take a real attitude so far and give a vision for the development of the water sector is a fact. Therefore, I will ask you the question so closely specialized in your work so that I can then take into account the overall state of the water sector. My question is: why does the Commission regulate the prices of water services by the method of the upper price limit, and what measures does KEWRC take with regard to water companies in cases of failure to comply with the investment programme laid down in their business plan? We have learned that all the water companies present to you a business plan and subsequently, because most of the MPs actually, if we ask any MPs if they agree to increase the price of water in any place, the answer will be:.. We do not agree!.... If we ask a question: do you want to invest in the infrastructure in the respective local place, everyone will be with the answer.............................................................. But the main question is: with what? With populism and with a unit of populism like Maya will not solve the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u93	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Now you've seen what happened. We've now gone to a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Only that's not a statement, it's a question. Ask questions and a personal explanation of the Rules. Just for speeches. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] So how? Read the Books.. says that personal explanations are not speeches, but he asked a question to Mr. Ivanov under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u94	Yeah, the way you run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u95	Okay, the way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u96	So, you can't start breaking the rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u97	There is no violation of the Rules, there is an application of the Rules. Let Mrs. Manolova respond to Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u98	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Mr. Atalay! A personal explanation regarding my mention in a negative context. If the KEWRC were to carry out its functions in good faith, including with regard to the protection of the rights of Bulgarian consumers, we certainly would not have come to the absurd situation where the only thing that has happened in the past five years, from the water reform made by GERB and supported by DPS, is an increase in the cost of water. She's up 70%. At the same time, as a result of the millions that poured into the water operators, the citizens received nothing. As a result of investments, water leaks are close to 70% [[noise and lines]] So there's no connection...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u99	Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u100	... between increasing the cost of water, investment and improving the quality of the service.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u101	Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u102	There's no such thing as a relationship! And it is brazen in relation to Bulgarian citizens from here to claim that they should pay more and more for water and against receiving nothing! Because so far, they have received absolutely nothing, no better quality of water, nor have they solved the problem...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u103	Mrs. Manolova, you'll have five minutes to express your attitude to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u104	...with the waterlessness, nor did the leaks decrease. Simply the party ladybugs on the water operators, well located by the ruling parties and companies, which supposedly make repairs, drained the money of the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u106	This happens with the courtesy of the majority in parliament and the regulator. Consumer protection is one of the KEWRC's commitments, which he ignores. It serves only energy companies and water operators. [[Noise and lines. Applause by IBGNS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Please call on the Members of the National Assembly not to mention the names of other Members of Parliament, especially Mrs Maya Manolova. Please, Mr. Atalay! [[Applause from DPS.]] What about you now? Oh, and you in the manner of conduct? Here you go. You have time today.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u108	In the manner of conduct, and very serious. I won't stray. Mrs. Maya Manolova had nothing personal against me and said nothing about either the populism unit or explained to the public that the protection of the water companies is also the responsibility of the KEWRC because these companies are not companies of either a neighbouring southern state or of a northern state. If you delete companies, then how and how will the public receive the service?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u109	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u110	You can't just look at one side. And therefore, Madam President, when you violate the regulations, be careful who comes out of the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u111	I'm very careful, Mr. Atalay. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ivanov, come in. Please, Mr. Nenkov, please! Please! You'll have five minutes to express your attitude. I hope to Mr. Ivanov's answers, not myself. Each to the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, you have asked two questions, I immediately address specific answers to both.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u113	One question with a question. Very please, let's be precise.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u114	Yeah, you can assume that one of them was really a question. The price adjustment methods are basically three: the method In the history of Bulgarian plumbing operators use these three methods. After all, what has been done for the first regulatory period under the new regulations from 2016 to 2021 was the use of the above price level method and in the same way we continue in the next period, because the method of return on capital generally requires a short regulatory period. In a five-year regulatory period, there is a very serious gap and requirements for annual price adjustment, which makes the business plan meaningless, which is set out in certain parameters. The above-mentioned revenue limit does not encourage water operators to reduce water losses because they are only really interested in revenues. Therefore, the above price limit is one of the most common in European practice and is already applicable in Bulgaria for a second regulatory period. The second question you asked is related to the action of the regulator in case the water operators do not implement the investment programme set out in the business plan. I've already had a chance to mention it, now I'm going to repeat it. At the end of the third year of the 5-year regulatory period, the third year, because it is necessary, of course, to develop an investment through a project, implementation, testing and finally to become operational, at the end of the third year, a comprehensive review of all water operators in terms of the implementation of their investment projects is being carried out. Where they are not implemented, quantitative means that are not used under the business plan and the cost of water is reduced for the users of the water services of that operator for the following year shall be taken into account. I mentioned that this was met by a knife, of course, by the water operators, but I repeat again that this is a fair solution. And if you will allow me, Madam President, because my mandate is actually running out, I would like to make a persistent call to Mrs Manolova, to propose that a person be president of the Commission, who will fulfill her testament dream to remain constant prices of both electricity and water and natural gas and heating. If you can reduce yourself, you better, but take the responsibility to offer such a person and stand behind him. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u116	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, what does the analysis show on the date 5 August regarding the solutions of the water associations related to business plans and demands to increase the cost of water? In Montana, the business plan was rejected. In Veliko Tarnovo, he was returned for reprocessing. In Shumen is rejected, with the softest expressions that the municipal councillors in Shumen have used, are the "buret with powder" and the "stopped with madness" and have requested the resignation of the head of the water company in full consensus "communal councilors from all political parties." In Haskovo business plan is rejected. In Kyustendil, the business plan is rejected. It is your duty to consider the demands for increasing the cost of water after there are relevant solutions of the water associations. I read five of them negative. In addition, the Law requires that prior to the submission of business plans, consultations be carried out with consumers to agree and possibly make their comments on the proposed business plans. It is traditional for the KEWR to ignore consumers and the requirement that they have done such consultations, as a result of which it also comes to the statement that I am repeatedly making to you, as a ombudsman, and as president of a civil platform, now as a MP. You have completely abandoned your commitment to seek a balance between the interests of the energy companies in the case of water operators and consumers, entirely in the interests of the water companies. And I ask you: since you claim to have done an analysis of the implementation of the 5-year plans, in how many of the cases due to failure of quality indicators, because of failure to comply with the investment plans, have you proposed a reduction in the cost of water? Which water companies did you do it in? Because surely, being chairman of the KEWRC, you know that there were protests in Samokov, in Berkovitsa, that there were protests in Haskovo, in Dimitrovgrad, that there were protests in Shumen. As president of a civil platform, I was at these protests. I know what people think about the outrageous quality of water, about the waterlessness, which is in hundreds of Bulgarian villages. By the way, this is also a problem with emerging fires, because there is no way that settlements without water can defend themselves against fires, against absolutely poor and cloudy water, and at the same time against the insolence of water operators who do not fulfil their commitments, relying on your favor that they always receive. In all of its demands, the price goes up, the commitments eventually. That is why the next chairman of the KEWRC should be an expert, honest and courageous, who will say in cases where energy companies fail to fulfil their commitments that they will not tolerate demands for raising and raising prices. [[Noise and lines.]] That he wouldn't squat in front of any power.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u117	Let's be tolerant of Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u118	That it will not respect the economic interests and the insaneness of power, but that it will ensure a balance between the interests of citizens and energy companies, something that you have never achieved in six years.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I will not enter your tone or your vocabulary from the National Assembly's stand out of respect for the legislature itself. I will only answer very briefly the question you asked. From about 50 water operators after the third year, because the fifth year has not expired, it will expire in December this year, we have imposed sanctions on 17 of them. This is more than 30% of the water operators, precisely due to failure of their investment programs. And every year when checking where there is a failure to comply with quality indicators, we impose sanctions on any operator who deviates from the set targets in its 5 year business plan. This is the commitment of the Commission, which we are definitely implementing, so we will continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Now we move on to attitude from each group to Mr. Ivanov's answers, but I'm looking at the clock that's already 10 years old. Parliamentary control has been fixed in the last three hours. Would you like to take a break, too? [[Heckling]] I therefore propose that we vote on extending working hours today with the time of interruption and with the time remaining until the group's attitude is expressed so that the control remains for three hours and thus be fair to all MPs who have asked questions and questions. Please, voting mode. Vote 77 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted, but something about our quorum is gone. I ask for a re-vote of the proposal so made. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. I'm not gonna apologize to them if they're not in plenary. 125 MPs voted: 114, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. There is such a people. Would you care to comment on Mr. Ivanov's answers? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, several things have become clear from what has been presented so far. We have business plans that are not business plans because it is not clear whether they are being implemented. We have proposed business plans that are yet to be revised because no agreement will be reached on them. We have poor drinking water. We've got a screaming need for $12 billion investment. It's screaming! All this time you've been going out here talking like a pretty well-prepared guy, as an excellent expert, which would be nice if you were an analyst. But you're not an analyst. You're the chairman of the KEWRC. In other words, you have explained to us exactly what the failure in the water sector has been like in recent years. As they say, it's a good thing you're running out of time. I will add only that in the program of "There is such a people" we are very aware that there is a global drought that will not pass Bulgaria as well. Only that was clear a lot more years ago than today. We plan to separate resources from the Recovery Plan and funds under the Operational Programme and from the state budget for the construction of a new water supply, which is obviously necessary for everyone, because without clean drinking water, things will not be obtained. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u123	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. From GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Ivanov, members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! The fact is that we have been discussing a very important topic for almost two hours. And it is not only related to the cost of water, but in general to the future development of the sector "Water supply and sewerage" and its long-term sustainability and benefits for the Bulgarian society. Here we cannot in any way envy the role of the commissioners, of the President of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, of the Members of the Commission, as they perform an inherently impossible function to find the difficult one and it is impossible... Utopia is to find in a 100 per cent ratio the objective balance of public needs between the users of this service and between the operators themselves, but I think that is exactly what the actions in recent years have shown. In no way will I lawyer up to Mr. Ivanov and the commissioners of the Commission, let alone with such prominent inks lawyers in this room, the Lord saved me, but I have to say a few basic things. First of all, in this balance, the KEWRC has achieved quite a few successes in recent years, but achieving success in this balance, both parties were dissatisfied with the users of the service and the water service operators themselves. And here may be the main question that we, the MPs of the 46th National Assembly, have to give a clear answer to society: is this regulation model appropriate, is it effective, is it objective and is it defending the interests of both parties in an objective, objective, 100% way? My answer is no! My answer is absolutely no! Mr. Genov from BSP addressed the issue of the commitments in the Water Act, which was prepared by the previous cabinet, was subject to public discussion. Perhaps within the 46th National Assembly, we will be able to reach a difficult consensus on the fundamental principles in it. First of all, an independent water regulator. Secondly, maintaining the social tolerance of the cost of water, which we, by the way, colleagues, remember in 2015 on a proposal from a former MP in GERB Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva, reduced from 4 to 2.5% of the income of households in the region concerned. Save the social tolerability of the cost of water! Thirdly, it would even be our main principle, of course a service in continuous mode to all Bulgarian citizens, not as it is at the moment 99.7% access to Bulgarian citizens. Fourth, of course, adequate payment in the water sector. Listening to yesterday's debate on our salaries, Madam President, I think some MPs are not sincere either yesterday or today, as well as Ivan Ivanov, the chairman of the KEWRC, mentioned that this is the lowest-paid public sector in terms of average wage. We got the numbers a little mixed up. By the first half of 2021 the average salary in the water sector was BGN 1147, at just over BGN 1500. in the real sector average wage in the country. Almost 35% of the employees in the water supply sector have a minimum wage. On minimum wage! Yesterday some MPs with concern precisely for those Bulgarian citizens who receive a minimum wage put their arguments out of this tribune. These are Bulgarian citizens again, as Ivan Ivanov mentioned. Almost 15 000 Bulgarian citizens are employed in the water sector. In fifth place, of course, from this tribune heard mutually exclusive, not to say absurd to my substance these. On the one hand, we want investment. And here I must emphasise deeply that we GERB have always argued that investment in the water sector should not be formed through the cost of water in its base. That is why we have ensured that we are already making an effective use of the project here in response to my colleague Tanner Ali from the DPS, the activities of the projects financed by the European funds under the Operational Programme are being actively implemented. lv. projects with beneficiaries Water operators. We also provided funds for the Bulgarian Water Holding for this purpose. Unfortunately, it is currently assisting financial water operators to carry out their operating activities, which is not its function, by the way, is not its function. Here I ask myself the question with these conflicting ones on the one hand, more investments, better wages in the sector, better quality of service, and, on the other hand, let's freeze or not raise the cost of water. Yeah, okay, we're not gonna raise the cost of water. However, even with the bill proposed by the importers of today's freezing hearing for one year, the price of water and reducing the period from 5 to 3 years of age, regarding the regulation of water services, see other ideas, I am convinced, and other objectives. Because who will financially take over the losses of the water operators? We have commented on the difficult financial situation in some water companies -- Shumen, Dobrich -- not to list them, at times better than 4, 5, 6 years ago, but at the moment this financial situation is again difficult. And aren't we aiming for something different here? I ask this question as a devalued water company, a bankrupt water company could easily be granted a concession afterwards. It could easily be given to a concession! Something that we of GERB categorically in the years back have claimed we are firmly against. And here for a reason in Mrs. Manolova's group is the son of an instigated lawyer who drew up the concession contract for Sofia Water. Just facts. And I ask the question: isn't that exactly the point? [[(Reply from the National Representative Maya Manolova:]] Beneficently, under the real problems of Bulgarian citizens regarding the quality of the service and somewhere the unstoppable...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u125	Mr. Nankov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u126	Excuse me, Madam President. I'm done. Is this not precisely the basis for the introduction of this bill? Today's hearing and the really heavy populism that has been brewing in the last two days of this tribune by certain Members of the National Assembly? Thank you, Madam President. Sorry about the weather. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u127	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. What you said and what you said today, Mr. Ivanov, only confirms what I said yesterday that this imbalance really must be completed and that the MPs should seriously start working on this issue because we all see this problem, especially the colleagues who were ministers, in regulatory bodies, that the situation between territorial units, local administration, central administration, scissors is huge. So, yes, I keep saying, and I hope that we can unite and start working on this. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u128	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Commission! Four are the main problems, four are the enemies of the water sector. This is, first, populism, then politics, but before them are corruption pressure and ignorance. I want to tell you that if we call the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission here three times a week, there will be no result. We will simply express, as we like to say, concern for the problems in Haskovo, Pernik, in Sliven, in Montana and in Dobrich, and in Shumen, we will express concern. All the questions asked here, honourable Members, constitute rhetorical questions on their substance, because they are open-minded questions, however, to ourselves, because the answer is here, the problem has been here for many, many years. Moreover, I would like to say that the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory is not responsible for the NASA Command Centre to entrust the current state of water to control it, manage it and have justice, and will suffer a complete and total failure. This is because we are now the victim of what has been happening in the water sector for at least 15 years. I'll brief you on why. The water sector has experienced three major pressures. The first pressure was political. Let us not forget this thing, because after 2009, the water sector has been assigned the political tasks to be excluded from receiving euro funds from municipalities over 10 thousand equivalents, i.e. between 2 and 10 remain outside the scope, and no municipality that is not associated with the Water Association and there is no single price to receive funding from the European funds again. And you know why? For two simple corruption reasons and for one political reason, an analysis was made that in settlements between 2 and 10 thousand equivalents of residents certain political forces had influence, respectively mayors, and the second was because then, passing the water sector to the MRB, as it funded the environment, someone wanted to finance water sites, as are financed highways, which we are witnessing at the moment. The second reason was that, through the single price of water, it is absolutely false that Brussels once insisted on a single price of water, this was laid down by the authors of this model, i.e. the second reason was the radical preparation for the concessionation of the water sector. I'm amazed, I'm sorry that my colleague Nankov isn't here, but I can't accept that statement. Do you remember, dear colleague Nankov, how, after improved funding of nearly 175 million for Pleven's integrated cycle, I can also say under your leadership, the concession in Pleven of the so-called "water cycle" happened almost? With the city council's decision, it's out of the question. So, honourable Members, the political tasks and the corrupt tasks that have been set in this sector have led us to be in this state at the moment. Therefore, I say this in the middle of my speech, what we need, and if there is a will for it, I hope a new government and a new majority will achieve this, is a radical reform of the water sector, a radical reform of water services. No solar panels, no changes to regulations, no change of methodology at the upper limit will get us out of the state we're in. We need a new function, a new role and a new task of managing the water sector. God forbid, now let's go to accept in this state and the new Water Act will hit the bottom, even though we've already hit it. You should know that Bulgaria has not complied with the Water Framework Directive for years, Bulgaria has not managed the waters of its pool principle, or at least lied to Europe that it manages the waters in accordance with the Directive. Bulgaria has not heard of the preparation of new European documents for subsequent use of waste water and new quality of drinking water to customers. So I would like to call for the following...... we need a reform of the frozen National Water Management Strategy. She fell asleep somewhere 2012 between the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers. I do not question that there is no mid-term assessment. We need a review of the Water Sector Strategy, we need a new policy in water management, and there must finally be a majority that hits the table and removes these four figures or these four shadows that have been haunting us for at least 15 years. So if there's a will and a majority for that, I'd be happy to. Otherwise, KEWRC can call them whenever we want. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u129	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Dimitrov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Such hearings should seek the benefit, the conclusion, the direction of what should be done after all. There's no point in emotional rhetoric. Nothing changes from them. Yes, we need to reform the water sector for sure. One of the things we can change is better control of the waterworks. He needs that kind of control. Now the KEWRC does not have the necessary tools to carry out an annual serious, strict control over their work. How could that happen? We can think about it. One of the options that has been mentioned today and on which we can very seriously reason is the introduction of a licensing regime. Why? When it comes to natural monopolies, there is no competition, there is a natural monopoly, it should be annual, it should be strict. Such control we have implemented over the years for energy companies. The logical question arises why do energy companies have this strict control and the waterworks, where the situation is similar, do we not have it? There's no explanation. It is perfectly logical to think of such an approach so that the KEWRC can every year, annually, strictly monitor the implementation of the plans by the Water and impose annual sanctions. Why? Unfortunately, if we draw the line, the results over the years are unsatisfactory and the loss of water is enormous, and the expenditures are not small, however, and people rightly do not see the expected results. So we can invite KEWRC very often, but if we don't change the model of work, we don't introduce this strict control, nothing will change. And as I have now heard a great deal about the current composition of the KEWRC, you will hear, colleagues, dissatisfaction with the next composition of the KEWRC, then from the next composition of the KEWRC, so I suggest that we concentrate on what work we can do. And I'm telling you, yes, there are significant problems with the work of the waterworks, with the manuals that have been chosen over the years, with the fact that there is no strict, explicit, annual control over their work. To expect them to suddenly work better, that's what we have to do. Do you know why it hasn't been done over the years? Well, they didn't mean to. They wanted the waterworks to do whatever they wanted, not have such strict control over their work, no desire. The one who had a majority in parliament said to himself: a good idea, but we better not do it, because now our people are there, they rule, they make the decisions, why introduce it? So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the conclusion of today's hearing, not the politics, but the reform that we can do, and the strict annual control over the water supply by introducing a licensing regime, is the meaningful thing that has been heard today, which we can do together so that the thefts can be smaller, the loss of water to be smaller, the management of the sector to be better, to receive quality drinking water at socially favourable prices, the loss of water to be smaller. All this can be done, however, needs reform. I would like to warn you about the following thing: "It is usually when someone comes to power that this desire for reform begins to leave him. In general, when people talk about governance, especially when they are in opposition, they have a desire for these reforms, but I have noticed that when they start coming to power, they say, "But are we going to do this right now? So that's what we want to tell you from "Democratic Bulgaria." Right now we have to make these decisions, right now these deep reforms need to be made. Otherwise we'll call each other different compositions of the KEWRC, exchange wits with them, and nothing will change. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u131	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u132	Thank you, Madam President. After the raging applause from the April Plenum, let's get back to the subject. Colleagues, the topic today was to analyse the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in relation to the water sector. I think the debate has been useful, the questions that have been asked have been answered in a meaningful manner. The conclusion of all this is that the KEWRC cannot determine the price of the water supply service. They can control, however, the National Assembly does not allow them to have the relevant commissioners who can control the water sector. All that is currently happening here in this Chamber is yet another attempt at how and how to talk about a particular problem, but there is no solution. The decision for the chairman of the KEWRC in the near future, colleagues, will be in the hands of the government. My request is that this time and the task of the National Assembly is to do everything possible to obtain the National Strategy for the Water Sector. I wish you to take part in this strategy so that the investments that will take place in the water sector are made so that within at least a decade we have done what water companies need to deliver the service to the last house where it was built and the relevant authorisation was given. Whether you can, if you can't, time in front of you will show, we will help you. The same happens with the Water Sector Act. This law has been going on for a long time. Get acquainted with you, and if you have your suggestions, let's go in and pass the water sector law to eliminate the possibility of further populism, because the National Assembly is today unable to determine the price of water. The National Assembly today is unable to allocate funds for investment in the water sector. If we don't find the balance, colleagues, it will happen, as the rabbit said, the same thing that happened last year, only then what they stole from me didn't give me back. Dear colleagues, corruption in the water sector is a fact, but the investments that are missing are also a fact. Did you know that the losses on the network are somewhere up to 70%? The 14 billion investments, the cycle that comes from where it should come from, should make the installation, the pipes should be laid and needed money. Where are they supposed to come from? From the price of water, one time, and, the second, which the BSP very much loves [[Elevator bell dings]] Where's the money from? They're still the ones who pay the price of water. Or the question arises: if we do not sit down to make the legal basis first, then the strategy and hence do not look at the way that enterprises and people who receive the service find the balance between them, so that the service can be obtained qualitatively and quantitatively, reducing the corruption pressure, removing the unnecessary so built APCs, which I wish you to do not only in the water sector, but in all other sectors where these unnecessary enterprises are made, to pass, if necessary, and to concession, to find the owner, to find the person who will invest and who, on the basis of the investment, will get his money back. Of course, there must be a certain profit without stealing. Colleagues, the water sector is perhaps one of those sectors to which, in recent years, least attention has been paid in terms of laws, in terms of investment, by the inability of the government to make decentralisation possible in order for the relevant associations or municipalities to apply for European funds. By putting all of this together, if we learn the lesson from here today and allow the next rulers, stepping in, taking the reins of the state, to start paying attention to the water sector from the legal base to investment, I believe that next time, even if it is not Mr. Ivanov, even if it is Mrs. Maya Manolova, then the questions will not be so unsatisfactoryly asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u133	Thank you, Mr. Atalay, once again you did not hold back from mentioning Mrs. Manolova. [[Reply of MP Ramadan Atalay.]] I know you've been working together a long time. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, from Stand up BG!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u134	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ivanov! There have been calls for reform in the water sector in this House, and accusations have also been heard regarding the changes that must happen in this sector. But let me remind you, however, that such a reform was carried out, that it started in 2016 and the authors of this reform are here, in this room they have names, they should be responsible six years later for what are the results of the strategy they launched in the sector and their reform. What are the results? The results are that for five years the water price increased, reached 70% and none of the quality indicators was improved. I will quote a KEWRC report on the state of the water sector for 2019, according to which there is a default of 332 quality indicators in the water sector. Yes, we found out from Mr. Ivanov that they sanctioned these water operators who did not make the relevant investments, but that the price of water was reduced because of non-investment plans because of waste, because of corruption, because of leaks in the water companies of public money, I didn't hear them impose such sanctions, and they didn't. They didn't! The water is not reduced in any area as a result of the outrageous actions of any water operator. There were also accusations of populism here. What is populism: to want in the 21st century in Bulgaria, which is rich in water resources, to have water from your tap not to run mud and not to flow any harmful substances as it is in Haskovo or as it is in Shumen, or as it is in Pernik? Is it populism to want at least water for the high cost of water? No, that's not populism! This is a normal request of Bulgarian citizens. And, no, gentlemen of GERB, who are at the heart of this reform, we do not want to ruin the water companies, you ruined them, you brought one part of them to bankruptcy and it was necessary to create a state water holding company to play the role of a credit, a financial institution to pour money into the water companies that your personnel drained. Your footage has drained! And, yes, I am also worried about the low salaries in the water and water sector as well as the Ombudsman, and then the president of a civil platform, the commissioners know, I have participated in many discussions and I have never insisted on reducing salaries in the water sector. What I have insisted on is a reform of the administration, because there are well-placed party ladybugs of the ruling party. These are the brother-in-laws and family appointments, of party activists, of people who have no hal haber in the water sector. [[Replications of the National Representative Nikolay Nankov.]] Hal Haber did not have, so in Shumen the last discussion of the business plan, including the advisors from GERB jumped against the appointments of the former ministers from GERB to arrange this and that! What's the score? People don't have water, and in cases where there's water in the taps once a week, mud flows! So what? You want more than a 100% increase in the price for the next five years. And here is the question to Mr. Ivanov, to which he never answered: How, Mr. Ivanov, did you in the KEWRC determine the indicators that will affect the cost of water in five years? Do you have a crystal ball in the KEWRC? How did you determine the price of electricity? How did you determine the minimum wage after five years? How did you determine social tolerance? Here I will quote Mrs. Mikova, who asked me to say what she did not have the opportunity to say: the cost of water is not just costs. The cost of water is also an opportunity for citizens to pay for it. Opportunity to pay her something the KEWRC never complied with. And, no, we have no intention of conceiting companies. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! It is clear, but we intend to take responsibility for those who spilled the sector because to pour through public resources through the state water holding company with 1 billion. lv. in the water companies, this is the money of the Bulgarian people once paid, once the companies are bankrupt and then they pay through the water holding, which continues to pour into one...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u135	Mrs. Manolova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u136	...in some pots with no bottom. And here's what I'm going to say, because Mr. Ivanov said enough untruths, to just show him the application to submit the business plan to Haskovo. It was introduced without being discussed at all, without saying yes!......................................... by the Water Association.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u137	Your time, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u138	Despite the outrage and protests of the citizens of Haskovo and despite the decisions of the municipal councils in Haskovo region. And for the finale, yes, this is where responsibility will be sought. All those who stole the sector will be held responsible and led to bankruptcy and brought Bulgaria rich in water and water resources...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u139	Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u140	...to have over a few hundred settlements without water because of the total lack of investment and the elementary responsibility for the development of this sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. That concludes the hearing and the item on the agenda. I'm giving up until 12:00 and we'll start with Parliamentary Control. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u142	I apologize for the delay, but we had the chairmanship council, and it continues. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. As of today, we are under the new Rules of Parliamentary Control. I will not read to you, I will not give you the written answers. You will see them directly on the website of the National Assembly. There are delayed questions, but they are under the rules, which acted until yesterday and are therefore postponed. You know, as of today, there will be no delay in matters of an up-to-date nature. Yesterday you asked me, Mr. Glauchev asked me to check the situation of the delay of the questions by the ministers when they were asked in the last 48 hours, given yesterday's debate. Yes, Mrs. Manolova noted that last week the Council of Ministers answered, but they answered questions that were asked within the week, that is, from Wednesday to Wednesday, not within the last 48 hours. One question has been asked and it has been postponed. For this week, it's basically a 50% delay, so I think the decision we made yesterday was balanced. Now I read you only a list of questions and questions received that you will find on the site. Question and written answer from: - Martin Dimitrov to Minister of Service Asen Vassilev; - Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev to Minister of Service Asen Vassilev; - Maya Manolova to Minister of Service Asen Vassilev; - Tsetska Bachkova and Petar Marinov to Minister of Service Asen Vassilev; - Martin Dimitrov to the Minister of Service Assen Lichev; - Ivaylo Mirchev to the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister Boyko Rashkov; - Mustafa Karadayi to the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister Boyko Rashkov; - Ahmed Ahmedov to Minister of Service Velislav Minekov; - Maria Kapon and Nikolay Hadzhigenov to the Minister of Service Velislav Minekov; - Martin Dimitrov to the Minister of Service Velislav Minekov; - Hristo Gazhev to the Minister of Service Velislav Minekov; - Hristo Gazhev to the Minister of Service Velislav Minekov; - Valentin Milushev to Minister of Service Violeta Komitova; - Valentin Milushev to Minister of Service Violeta Komitova; - Galina Tavalitsa-Georgieva to Minister of Service Violeta Komitova; - Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova to Minister of Service Violeta Komitova; - Katya Paneva to Minister of Service Violeta Komitova; - Nikolina Angelkova to the Minister of Service Violeta Komitova; - Slavena Tocheva, Pavel Hristov, Lydia Marinova, Martin Andonov and Julian Stanev to the minister of service Violeta Komitova; - Hristo Gazhev to the Minister of Staff Georgi Panayotov; - Elizabeth Belobradova to the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister Galab Donev; - Hristo Gazhev to the Minister of Service Nikolay Denkov; - Martin Dimitrov to Minister of Service Stella Baltova; - Nikolina Angelkova to Minister of Service Stella Baltova; - Nikolina Angelkova to Minister of Service Stella Baltova; - Hristo Gazhev to the Minister of Staff Hristo Bosukov; Hamid Hamid to Minister of Service Yanaki Stoilov. Questions and written answer from: - Stella Nikolova to Minister of the Service Asen Lichev; - Stella Nikolova and Tsetska Bachkova to the Minister of Staff Violeta Komitova; - Stella Nikolova to Minister of Service Georgi Todorov. We'll start with parliamentary control. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened to what you read, received written answers, and I was impressed by the website of the National Assembly that two questions that I have asked to Minister Katsarov and one question to Minister Bozukov, although they were asked two weeks ago on both the old and the new rules have expired, they have not answered. I don't know why these two ministers haven't answered so far, the questions are very simple. To Minister Katsarov: what is his office; how many doctors has he fired in the two months while he is still Minister of Health? Although the deadlines have expired, according to the National Assembly's website, it has not been answered. Also, Minister Bozukov has not answered a question: how many people have been fired by the Ministry of Agriculture and its subordinate secondary officers? Although all the other ministers have responded. Here's an interesting clamp. Minister Katsarov is the only minister who has a parliamentary secretary appointed even when there was no parliament, but still does not answer the questions within the deadlines. I don't know why these two ministers aren't responding and hiding from parliamentary control. We understand that Minister Katsarov is on leave, but this does not excuse him from failing to fulfil his duties under the Rules of the National Assembly. It was the one in force from today, or the one in force until yesterday. So, Madam President, I appeal to you by the end of the day, if possible, to submit the answers to the questions and also to apply art. 103, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, namely as the first item on Wednesday, before possible debates on a new cabinet composition, these two ministers come here and answer why they did not comply with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u144	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I'll see why you don't have any answers, and I'll let you know. You yourself said that Mr. Katsarov, as I announced on Wednesday, was on paid business leave. I'll see what the case is, and I'll let you know. BNT 2 cameras, I'm guessing, are on because of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u145	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to make a declaration on behalf of our parliamentary group of GERB-SDS and to give a voice to an outrage that happened after the incident with the US military in Chesnegirovo, for the actions and omissions of the leadership of the Service... Military Police... and the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, which led to the premature death of a Bulgarian officer accused of being guilty, even though he is innocent. We have come to a great deal of information, including from the media, about irregularities, irregularities and even abuse of office in carrying out the inspection, after the incident became public, in order to cover up the real responsible and incriminating a young officer to take all the blame.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u148	Mr. Mitov, I'm sorry to interrupt, but during parliamentary control statements on behalf of groups are not made, are not admissible.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u149	How can they not be eligible?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u150	They are explicitly excluded by art. No. 104, para. 6. That has always been the case, but carry on, with respect to what you want to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u151	Thank you. We also met with Lieutenant Todor Manchev's family. Their information confirmed all our concerns in the manner of the inspection and subsequently of the incident. Moreover, a person who organizes a wedding in August, has a child and is financially insured is not the typical profile of a person who would harm his life, as the Ministry of Defence has so far claimed. After the incident with the US military, this is a small factology. The owner of the workshop is signaling at the Military Police. The signal was received by Lieutenant Manchev as a duty officer. He has reported it to the Office's management, which should report to the Minister in turn. Apparently, with the change of office, this incident was considered irrelevant. Only after the video is released 10 days later, and although the Military Police are not concerned with the security of the exercise, the messenger is punished with reprimand. Due to the scandal burning, the Minister of Defence ordered an inspection of the Ministry of Defence Inspectorate. We have information that this inspection reveals shocking practices in blurring responsibility, including criminal data from the leadership of the................Military Police... which should be provided to the Military Prosecutor's Office, but more importantly, it does not find fault in Lieutenant Manchev. We have information that this report was provided by Minister Panayotov precisely to those who are said to be trying to cover up the case, namely Colonel Sotirov, Director of the Military Police Office. We have information that Lieutenant Manchev, meanwhile, is under pressure to change his testimony, sign false documents and take all the blame for the case without being guilty. As far as we understand, two days after the Inspectorate's report was provided by the Minister of the Chief of the Service, Lieutenant Manchev was found dead during the exercise, the main version being suicide. GERB-SDZ has requested the Ministry of Defence to provide the reports prepared by the Ministry of Defence Inspectorate and the Ministry of Defence Service together with the resolutions on them, but to this day they have not been handed over to us. All this raises a number of questions: Does Minister Panayotov mislead the public with the statement that he did not punish Lieutenant Manchev after we understand that his resolution was: Has the minister made sure that it is the guilty servicemen who are being punished? Was there any forgery by the Department of Military Police in order to indict the duty officers during the incident to take all the blame? Was there any pressure on Lieutenant Manchev to be punished and take the blame without being really responsible? What happened after Lieutenant Manchev was found dead and what action did the Military Police take on the investigation? Because we understand that the room was mostly cleaned in an extremely short period of time. What are the reasons for the urgent appointment of Colonel Sotirov by the interim director of the Office for Permanent in the last week of the caretaker government without clarifying the above circumstances? Moreover, after we find out that his nomination has objected personally to the official Prime Minister Stefan Yanev. Is this urgency a kind of gratitude for the actions of Colonel Sotirov in the investigation of the MiG-29 crash in Shabla, in which Major Terziev died? In our opinion, Colonel Sotirov, as a man who has done everything possible to transfer responsibility to his subordinate, cannot be commander, a man who has committed brutal harassment on his subordinate, bringing him to suicide, cannot be commander and a man we understand was at a feast during Lieutenant Manchev's funeral, cannot be commander. All this raises doubts about an extremely dirty history of transferring responsibility from a chief to a subordinate in the darkest cop tradition, a story leading to the death of a young officer, a future husband and father. This story can't be swept under the carpet, and we won't let that happen. And in order for the Minister of Defence to fulfil the principles of transparency, integrity and professionalism declared by Prime Minister Yanev, we will submit a draft decision on the establishment of an inquiry committee to clarify all the facts and circumstances concerning: planning and conducting the exercise in Chesnegirovo; all subsequent actions by officials of the Ministry of Defence to investigate the incident and their reports and resolutions; was there undue pressure on the officers of the Military Police to take responsibility for the incident and to sign false documents; what actions were taken in the investigation of the incident which led to Lieutenant Manchev's death? All these questions must be answered. In the meantime, we understand that Rumen Radev has signed a decree granting General Pagons to Colonel Sotirov, although the above circumstances have not been clarified. This raises the question: what forced such a haste with the promotion of rank? Perhaps he is in a hurry to fulfill some commitments and to materialise mutual dependences before the caretaker government gives up power. We will continue to insist that we receive adequate answers from the Ministry of Defence and we will conduct consultations with the other parliamentary groups on the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances of the case. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u152	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Just for the correctness of saying yes, you were right. The restriction is only for blitzcontrol, not for regular control, which is why I didn't interrupt you. Thank you again. The time of the meeting will be extended with the time of your speech. We begin with the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for European Fund Management. The first question is from Evgenia Biserova Aleksieva, Alexander Nenkov and Anna Alexandrova regarding a change in the Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability of the Republic of Bulgaria and stopping the projects for construction of plumbing and sewerage on the territory of Sofia Municipality in agglomerations of Pancharevo
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! The Recovery and Sustainability Plan includes the Programme for construction, completion, reconstruction of water supply and sewerage systems, including waste water treatment plants for agglomeration between 2000 and 10,000 inhabitants equivalents and increasing energy efficiency in the water sector. The Programme aims to enhance the compliance of the Directives with the requirements for urban waste water treatment by providing infrastructure for the disposal of waste water treatment and the quality of water intended for human consumption, by renovating and the water supply system for the preservation of the available drinking water resource. In the developed version of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan Mr. Borisov's government proposed 17 agglomerations to build a water infrastructure from all over the country. The agglomerations included in the project proposal on the territory of Sofia Municipality are Botunets, Kremikovtsi, Seslavtsi, Pancharevo, Kokalane and Voluyak. The project proposal covers activities in agglomerations between 5000 and 10,000 equivalents of residents. Even today, this topic was the subject of a debate in the Chamber, because this is indeed a big problem for the number of residents so that these settlements can be financed under euro programmes. What happened after that? The caretaker government and you, as a service deputy prime minister in charge of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, have revised the Plan. Even you left this program, despite the meetings with the mayor of Sofia Municipality with you, with the Minister of Staff and all the evidence and information provided to you about Sofia Municipality projects and the lack of objective reasons for excluding Sofia Municipality from the project. Despite the fact that these projects have already been examined by experts from the European Commission and their opinion is that they can be financed, to receive this European funding. You removed from the Plan only and only Sofia's sewer projects and cut Sofia by 200 million. BGN and Sofia Municipality provides another 42 million. lv. for funding. In support of these projects there was also a petition with four thousand signatures from the residents of these settlements, there were protests, there was also a statement adopted by the Sofia Municipal Council. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the reason why only small settlements in the territory of Sofia Municipality are excluded from the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and nearly 30 thousand inhabitants are deprived of funding for the construction of sewerage and replacement of water supply in these settlements? Thank you. Sorry about the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u154	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Pekanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u155	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you for your question. An important question, indeed. The programme for construction, completion, reconstruction of water supply and sewerage systems, including waste water treatment plants for agglomerations between 2000 and 10,000 inhabitants, is indeed with a reduced scope in the new revised version compared to the previous version of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, with the four Sofia agglomerations being removed from the project. These changes are motivated by two factors. The first factor is, as we have already talked many times and as I think we heard last week in this House, the possible negative consequences for the whole country in terms of regional development, the continuation of the focus and concentration of investments from European funds in Sofia at the expense of investments in far less developed regions of the country. GDP per capita in the capital is in times higher than that of the least developed regions and these imbalances will deepen with continuing investments in Sofia if we continue this way. In the previous version of the Plan, there were specific 560 million. BGN, separated only for the capital city, which with such a weight had a specific place. All other programs were generally horizontal and did not set a specific city to receive more weight. That is, the way in which all this was framed did not serve one of the objectives of the recovery and sustainability mechanism. In the regulation for its creation, point 4 is clearly written: The mechanism for recovery and sustainability and all recovery plans must also aim at social and territorial cohesion, namely to contribute to the evenly horizontal development of our country. Instead, we are betting to strengthen our country's uneven development. But there's also a second point, a purely technical problem. Of course, any change had technical reasons, and they are that in this case the owner of the assets that would have been built under the project would have been the On the one hand, there were some concerns about the eligibility of State aid, which is likely to exist. Such an opinion has been expressed before by the Ministry of Finance......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the same time, at the end of the concession contract of the Sofia Water and at some point in the future, these assets would give the company a competitive advantage in a possible new selection procedure. In other words, we also have purely technical concerns that these projects, as they enter into the assets of the Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u156	Thank you, Mr. Pekanov. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Pekanov! I am not satisfied with your answer and I think it is not objective. As far as I know at all these meetings that have been held with you, and the claim about the Sofia water company is not as you present them at the moment. There are documentation sent to you on this case, and given that only Sofia's projects are taken out of all 17 agglomerations and 200 million are cut off for the sewerage of these four Sofia projects, I think we should look for some objectivity here. And for this concentration, and for this inequality that you are talking about, I want to tell you that by nearly 13 billion, which are laid down in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, only 5% are for Sofia, even the subway projects were threatened. Behind this 5% are over 1.5 million Sofians and 40% of the taxes that enter the country are from Sofians. Zero percent of them return to Sofia's budget. Sofia Municipality has so far worked on many projects to build a water infrastructure and sewerage for around 500 million investments. This is ISPA Programme, the previous Operational Programme "Environment". This is co-financed by the Sofia Municipality as well as financed by the Sofia water company. Currently there is even a construction, launched this year, of sewerage and water infrastructure in eight districts in Sofia, which are worth 120 million. lv. under Operational Programme The Sofia Municipality has not stopped for a moment to work on these problems and build a water infrastructure. But I just want to tell you that we need to make a difference in how we finance. For these settlements and the rest outside Sofia until now, there has been no opportunity to be included in any programme and to be financed because of the requirement for a certain number of residents. And right now, it's the only chance this thing is gonna happen. And you only take the Sofia villages out of the Plan?! I want to ask you: will you personally go to these people in Botunets, in Seslavtsi, in Kremikovtsi, in Pancharevo, in Bones, in Voluyak and tell them why you are taking these projects out of the Plan? I too live in this area, and I can tell you that we people in these areas are not people of second hand. From GERB-SDS we will insist that these four projects be returned to the Plan and financed again. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. For the back, Mr. Pekanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u159	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Of course, these are important projects, but as you say, such investments have been made in recent years. Why didn't Sofia Municipality make these investments when it represents that she was so successful in doing her job? We can see that's not really true. And in fact, first, we need the Sofia Municipality to explain to these citizens why this happened. But let's go back to technical matters, because, as I said, there are always some technical reasons for this to happen, it didn't just happen. These reasons were presented to us by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and, as I said, they include: on the one hand, an opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the need for a separate assessment of the applicability of State aid rules. In addition, the lack of sufficient information on the implementation of the investment programme of the Sofiyska voda, which could also have made these important investments in recent years, we do not know why this has not happened, which does not give us the opportunity to make the demarcation assessment for the financing of the proposed sites by Sofia Municipality. I understand that there was a natural opinion, a response from Sofia Municipality, but my colleagues at the Ministry are not satisfied with this opinion based on their and on personal information it cannot be concluded that these technical criticisms that are there are really within the European Commission's requirements for this project. Last but not least, as I have said, an important issue is not specified the commitments of the concessionaire in relation to the conclusion of the concession contract and what will happen after the renewal of these assets at the time of the expiry of the concession contract, which will happen in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u160	Thank you. We move on to the second question by Dimitar Nikolov regarding the removal of the project for construction of an intercultural terminal in a city from the latest version of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u161	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Pekanov, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The construction and modernisation of transport infrastructure is structurally determining for the development of business in the North Central Planning Region. During my meetings in recent weeks with representatives of the local government, from which I come, and representatives of the business, were very concerned about the fact that in the revised Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability of Bulgaria the project "Development and rehabilitation of key railway complexes, construction of the Intermodal Terminal Gorna Oryahovitsa" has been developed by dropping the site by building an intermediate terminal in Gorna Oryahovitsa, reflected in the previous versions, without stating the reasons for this. In order to achieve a balanced development and to reduce the imbalance between North and South Bulgaria it is necessary to develop land, rail and air transport, as a unit would be the interoperable terminal in the Gorna Oryahovitsa region. The location of the terminal is strategic and affects the cargotrots coming from the north and from the south and the terminal is located at the node.. to the largest railway station in Northern Bulgaria and Corridor No 9. The construction of an intermediate terminal in the town of Gorna Oryahovitsa would improve the intermodality of the transport links of the companies in the area of Gorna Oryahovitsa, Veliko Tarnovo, Lyaskovets and Sevlievo, as well as the possible future electrical vehicle plant in the region of Lovech. There is an organised customs office at Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport, which will allow faster entry into the terminal of the service, on the customs release of cargo. The implementation of a project to build such a modern facility would contribute to socio-economic development in the region by creating conditions for the construction of industrial parks, development of services related to it, increasing local revenues, improving the environment, but mainly creating new jobs and raising the standard and quality of life in the area and the region. Next to the future Intermodal Terminal Gorna Oryahovitsa Municipality is already developing a project for building an industrial park, which is in an advanced phase, there is a detailed development plan...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u162	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u163	...working on the concept of the park. Stopping the realization of this important project for the development of Northern Bulgaria will further strengthen the differences in the development of Northern and Southern Bulgaria. I expect to hear, Mr. Pekanov, motives for dropping the project, because the contrary would be a clear sign for potential investors, for uncertainty in the environment and abstention from investment in the region of Northern Bulgaria as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u164	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Pekanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for the question. It's a really important question. The project "Development and rehabilitation of key garage complexes and construction of the Intermodal Terminal " Gorna Oryahovitsa" is really with a reduced scope compared to the previous version, with the activity of building an intermediate terminal in Gorna Oryahovitsa dropped out of the project. These changes have been initiated by the draft company National Railway Infrastructure, partly responding to my request to seek optimization of existing projects, but are also related to other arguments that were expressed by experts in terms of the degree of project readiness and maturity of the project idea. Although I know that this idea has been discussed for a long time in society, but, as I explained last week, there is a difference between the idea that could be good and the state of the project at the time, and this therefore leads to an unsatisfactory assessment of the risk of fun or even failure. It is very important that the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism lays down very clear and deadlines for building all the projects in it. Any delay actually leaves the projects without funding. Everything has to happen by the end of 2026. The delay in achieving a specific goal is automatic commitment to not receiving the relevant resource from Brussels after this objective has not been fulfilled. One of the problems that we saw and was pointed out by the experts is that, on the one hand, an intermediate terminal in Gorna Oryahovitsa existed until the end of the 1990s in a very old way, with radically different organization of the economy and needs for the organization of translations. In 2012, NRIC sold for scrap one of the terminal cranes and in 2013 there was an attempt to sell parts or almost all of the property, which is related to a decision that I can read to you, i.e. a signal that there was no need for such a terminal in the past. It is now proposed to be built, and in the previous version of the draft ticket to finance this Intermodal terminal there is no design readiness to implement it precisely because it is written that the activities of this project include preparation, including pre-project studies on a full scale, and the choice of location of the terminal, which really shows that the estimates are not made whether this is the best place for it to happen. This shows that it was not even an absolutely good design readiness and this is what leads to the fun of risk, at the same time without knowing whether this is the most meaningful investment that can happen. This point shows that the need to carry out pre-project studies implies the absence of any information on expected load loads to pass through the terminal and to really justify its existence. On this line we see, on the one hand, the project as something that would be threatened precisely because not all the studies have been done and at the same time without these studies we do not know if this is the most meaningful investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u166	Thank you. We're moving on to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u167	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I will just tell you that during the last two campaigns in the meetings with citizens and potential voters, the most frequently asked question was: how long will Bulgaria be moving at two speeds between the north and the south? I continue to insist as a MP elected by Veliko Tarnovo's multi-manandaten electoral area that the realization of such a project, first, will make sense of the concept of the railway city of Gorna Oryahovitsa and will set the direction and development of the region for decades to come. I neglected to say in my exhibition that the largest employer on the territory of Gorna Oryahovitsa Municipality, namely "Zaharni Factories" "AD," has already stated its investment intention to build a private industrial park, so I dare say that such an investment will be fully justified and the risk will be reduced to a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u168	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u169	Thank you very much. Actually, I'd like to join your appeal first. I fully share the opinion that Bulgaria should not move at two speeds and we should take all possible steps to ensure that between South and Northern Bulgaria the development is even. Here the question is, is Gorna Oryahovitsa the right place for this to happen? It is important to point out that although Gorna Oryahovitsa is really the largest railway hub in Northern Bulgaria, the expert opinion that has been presented to us is that it has a number of restrictions related to the performance of the railway directions it serves. I mean, yes, I agree, we should generally look for more investments in Northern Bulgaria, but without the clear justification why right there and will there really be interest now, and not as it was before with a completely different structure of the economy right here is the best place for this intercultural terminal, it has not been fully justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u170	Thank you, Mr. Pekanov. This has run out of questions for you. A declaration from a group or a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u171	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u172	Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u173	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is in the manner of conduct in relation to the fact that you just started the parliamentary control of the National Assembly, the MPs and the Bulgarian citizens that I received a response from the Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Rashkov. Madam President, according to Art. 96, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the Rules in force so far, the questions are addressed through the President of the National Assembly, in order to be clear who asks what questions and under para. 5 The Chair shall communicate when an answer has been received. There is a letter in front of me that is not the answer to the question that I have asked. My question is concrete and clear. For each of the specific cases under art. 115 of the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be presented to me. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, art. 115: All public authorities and officials are obliged to provide the necessary documents in relation to the questions asked by the Members of the National Assembly, even when they constitute state or official secrecy. I've asked for documents, I've asked a clear question. I do not see here documents, on the contrary there is one statement in the letter, in case we have specific data, that we had provided them to the Ministry of Interior so that they could take any action. Madam President, according to the Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly, the National Assembly controls the executive power and the ministers, not the ministers and the executive power to exercise control over the National Assembly and the MPs. In this regard, I ask you also not to violate the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and not to mislead either the National Assembly or the Members of the National Assembly or the public as a whole, but to remind both the Ministers and the entire Council of Ministers and the entire executive body that the National Assembly is controlling and that they are obliged to implement the Constitution and the laws of the country and to answer the questions asked by the Members of the National Assembly, as the Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly dictate. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u174	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I didn't know I had to analyze the ministers' answers, but I promise you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u175	No response, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u176	Yes, I promise you, Mr. Karadaye. I think these were my first words to the National Assembly when I was elected, that there should be strong real, real control over the members of the Council of Ministers, both in terms of legislative initiative and in terms of parliamentary control, because this is indeed real parliamentaryism. So I make a commitment to get acquainted with the ministers' answers and to try to ask them to really answer the questions and questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u177	Yeah, that's the logic of art. 96 of the current Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u178	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. We continue with the Minister of Energy Andrei Zhivkov. Question by Martin Dimitrov on costs for NPP "Belene" after the restart in June 2018. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u179	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! You know that Belene is one of the extremely interesting projects that has become from a göl to a construction project according to the same people, i.e. the qualification is given to this project by the same people who first said how not needed for Bulgaria, then said it is one of the most important projects to be implemented. But what's important? The important thing is that about 3 billion were spent by 2018. lv. And, Minister, every penny of that $3 billion. lv. It's on us taxpayers. All the time there is talk of investors, all the time there is talk of investors, but the reality is that every single penny spent on Belene is worth 3 billion. BGN, which we know by 2018, is at the expense of the taxpayers. All the money! But after 2018, it's a black hole. The previous power did not give any information about the costs incurred since July 2018 until about three years ago. There are certainly costs in the following directions: the storage of these reactors, transport, insurance, but more importantly, the consulting contracts. What consulting contracts and for what value have they been concluded? Are there any new engineering contracts in relation to Belene? If I were to pay what amounts? Mr. Minister, you know this is a subject of overwhelming public interest because it concerns taxpayers' money, as I said, all the time there is talk of private investors, but the bill is paid by us, and I ask you for maximum specifics. You have already answered one of my specific questions about the so-called Turkish Stream and here I hope to receive a similar specific answer. In these three years, what money has been spent? Because if you're looking at the official answers on the subject, there's nothing! Black hole! There's no answer! That is, if you ask the previous management of GERB, they did not give any information on this topic. And that's very purposeful.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u180	Mr. Dimitrov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u181	We know who's paying the bill, the question is what is this account?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u182	Thank you. Minister Zhivkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u183	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, in relation to the question you have asked about the costs of NPP, I can provide you with the following information: the total value of the current costs for the period you are referring to so far amounts to 10 million. Twenty-eight thousand. BGN, of which 4 million 598 thousand. lv. are depreciation and no cash flow. In relation to the detailed incision by elements of these costs, I can tell you the following: In order to maintain and comply with the technical requirements for the storage of equipment supplied for the period from 1 June 2019 to 30 June 2021, the costs incurred by economic elements shall be the following: expenditure for materials of a total value of 204 thousand. lv. and include expenditure on materials amounting to 24 thousand. BGN, working clothing costs of 10 thousand BGN, fuel costs and spare parts, and electricity energy of 170 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund 126,000. lv. and include: security costs worth 2 million. 792,000. BGN, cost of insurance of the property worth 282 thousand BGN, expenses for other external services........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. Three. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 598 thousand. lv. These amortizations shall be charged to fixed tangible assets put into operation. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to studies, meetings of experts, information and publications 591 thousand. BGN, with wage costs of 1 million. 212 thousand. lv. and social and health insurance costs of 380 thousand. lv. Five. Cost of local taxes and fees totaling 499 thousand. lv. Six. Other costs of 10 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, training costs of 2 thousand lv. In addition to those current costs, which are, in essence, fixed costs, NEC also incurs storage and reconservation costs of equipment supplied with a long production cycle. On the basis of a signed contract on 8 November 2018, between NEK and "Atomexport', the Belene branch, amounting to a total of 960 thousand. lv. without VAT, technical guidance activities have been carried out on the reservation of equipment with a long production cycle for the 1st and 2nd block of the nuclear power plant. All activities are completed and paid off by the National Electric Company. These costs are capitalised under the NPP project "Belene" where all costs for the acquisition of fixed assets are accumulated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u185	Mr. Minister, thank you for entering this particular, which has been deliberately hidden from us. I understand that in the last three years, we have to add another 10 million to this 3 billion. BGN spent on Belene. Two things excite me and my colleagues from the Democratic Bulgaria. One is: in this project company, because you talked about wage costs, how many people were directly assigned? If you could just tell us. If not, I'll ask you in writing further. The second question, which is particularly important. You mentioned expenses for external services. Is there a major financial consultant selected on this project, as it was in the past? Is there any movement here? Is there a new company that is a major financial consultant on this project? That would be curious, because in the past you know what huge amounts have been spent precisely in this direction. Is it possible not to cover all costs insofar as some of them are recorded as expenses of the Bulgarian Energy Holding? Not to be directly concerned with Belene, if you read the wording of the contracts, but actually to have as the object of the NPP, Belene. Is it possible that there are other amounts that do not cover the amount of your response at the moment, the amount of the EUR 10 million? lv.? Our most important question is: is there a new selected financial consultant? There was serious speculation in the media on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u186	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u187	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I am not prepared to answer you in the specifics of these questions. Of course, I'll make a reference and send you the answers. I will complete only some expenses that will occur soon, which are not reported in this report. These are costs for one equipment that is not finished and is still located on the territory of the two plants in Russia, which are in Volgodonsk and St Petersburg. Until now we have neither taken them nor paid for their maintenance there. That'll happen soon enough. So there will be more to these costs. How much I can't tell you right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u188	Thank you. There is a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev to the Minister of Service of Energy about the actions taken to clarify the facts and data about ineffective management of the electric system operator. Mr. Mirchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u189	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! On 14 July, a new manual of the Power System Operator was selected. A guide that was selected against the background of media publications for questionable corruption practices, inhouse procedures that are on the edge of the law. However, this leadership is a fact and it largely reproduces the leadership of the old Management Board of the ESO EAD. In this regard, Minister, my question to you is this: You had promised to give the State Financial Inspection Agency ESO EAD: what are the results of this? Are you concerned that the Supervisory Board of the ESO EAD is choosing a new management of the Company, which largely reproduces the old Management Board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u190	Here you are, Mr. Minister. You have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, in response to the questions asked by you regarding the actions taken to clarify the data exported to the public for ineffective management of the System Operator, I can tell you the following: by letter of 2 June 2021, I asked the Minister of Finance to order the State Financial Inspection Agency to carry out a verification of the electricity system operator related to the award of public procurement for projects financed by European funds. This action of mine was dictated by media signals of irregularities in relation to the company's activities and due to the high public interest. By letter dated 8 June 2021, AAFI informed that a financial inspection of ESO EAD was awarded and carried out with regard to the legality of public contracts awarded by the Company during the period 2017 - 2020. By letter dated 18 June 2021, the ESO EAD informed that they had established a working group to assist ADFI employees and to prepare reasoned opinions and responses in the course of the inspection. Until now, the Ministry has not provided a report from the inspection carried out to ADFI. Of course, in relation to whether I can disclose the data from the verification carried out after the submission of the report by ADFI, we would be happy to provide you with the data from the verification carried out. Regarding your question whether I am concerned by the fact that the Supervisory Board elects an ESO Governing Board, does not take into account the data exported to the public and blocks any of my actions to change the operational management, you know very well that the ESO EAD is a joint stock company with a two-tier management system, part of the vertically integrated undertaking. The sole owner acts as a general meeting, is managed by the Supervisory and Management Board. The specifics of ESO management are due to the fact that it is an electricity network operator structured according to the model of an independent transmission operator. For operators of electricity and gas transmission systems at European level, since 2012 at national level in Bulgaria, increased regulatory requirements ensuring independence of these operators are also set. In this regard, the Supervisory Board of the public undertaking includes two categories of independent members and representatives of the State, and the independent members of the Supervisory Board are nominated by the Commission for the nomination of candidate members of public undertakings management and control bodies appointed by order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Public Enterprises and the representatives of the State of the Supervisory Board are nominated by a committee designated by the Bulgarian Energy Holding. The members of the Supervisory Board of the Company entered on 21 May 2021 were selected following competitions. As seen from the above, as Minister of Energy, I do not have any levers for determining the composition of the Governing Council. Even for participation in the Supervisory Board, also the Minister of Energy does not have any powers. Specifically, the question you have asked me: whether it bothers me that the Supervisory Board, which elects the Governing Council, does not take into account the data exported to the public, yes, the fact disturbs me, but I can only react within my competence under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u192	Do you have any further questions up to two? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u193	Quite briefly, Mr. Minister, as this is indeed of great public interest. We would be very happy if you could provide us with the results as soon as the checks come out. The other ESO in the last two years, in fact from 2018 to 2020, has received over 700 million. lv. and are awarded for various contracts concerning the country's electricity system. This is very similar to the case of the Automamistrails. We, together with our colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria." We will place an emphasis on ESO and will monitor the checks very carefully as well as the results of them, as we do not want to have an inheritance here from GERB after another brooch called ESO EAD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u194	Do you have an answer? You don't. Do you have an attitude, Mr. Mirchev? No. To the Minister of Energy there is a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov concerning the lost Road map for development of the network, signed by Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u195	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Life loses things, disappears. However, when the Road map for the development of the network signed with the "Gsprom" disappears, this is subject to serious concern. I know, Mr. Minister, that you have made efforts to find this map because there are important things in it, such as how to say projects, how far they are developing; are there projects for which we do not know; what names are used; is there a Balkan stream there, or is there only a Turkish stream; is there other names also in this map. I was going to ask you, I know that you made an effort to find the road map in question: is there a development in this direction? If there is no development, I suggest we ask for a copy from the Russian side. If our original is missing, the originals are at least two. That is, if we do not have an original which you and the Parliament are to meet, ask them for a copy to be provided to us. Then I ask you to give access to the Bulgarian Parliament as this document is extremely interesting. His disappearance makes him even more a subject of serious public interest. So my question to you is: did you find this roadmap for the development of the transmission network? If not, what steps will you take? We from the parliamentary group "Democratic Bulgaria" propose together to look for it. That is, if the Map has not been found so far, we suggest that we are 34 people to use our efforts, together with this road map to be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u196	Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u197	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you know the answer that the roadmap failed to find it, but documents were found quoting the roadmap. So this shows that it exists one way or another. What I have done I have sent letters to the Bulgarian Energy Holding to Bulgartransgaz, even to the Council of Ministers, because a working group was quoted as being organised by the Council of Ministers on this road map. I also issued a warrant to the Ministry to search for the Office and the Archives, and I received all the answers that this road map is gone. I will quote you a letter which was sent by the Bulgarian Energy Holding to the Minister of Energy then Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, where this road map is quoted, and this is the only clue. There is also a letter from Russian by "Gazprom" which also quotes this road map, where it says: "On July 12th at a meeting of the working group established within the roadmap between the PAC and the Council of Ministers, from 3 June 2017 offers shareholders... and one-what it says. But at the moment, the result of the search for this road map is this. Of course, we have considered the option of sending a letter to "Gszprom" and asking for a copy of this roadmap, but somehow I do not think it would be good for our country's reputation not to be able to find one document. I guess somewhere this road map will pop up in a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u198	Mr. Dimitrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u199	Dear Minister, there are a lot of press releases on his signature. The signing of this roadmap by the previous government of GERB is presented as a heroic event. You can see the messages in the media. The fact that this document has been missing and missing for so many months is extremely disturbing. Therefore, I urge you to ask the Gazprom to send a copy by saying that this is part of our mutual interest in the development of the gas sector and it is appropriate to request a copy of this document. I mean, it's not normal, since the start of the search for the road map, it's been about four months, as I recall. I believe that you have made these efforts, and commendably you have made these efforts, you have asked, I understand, the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the Council of Ministers, and there is nowhere a roadmap for the development of the transmission network. Therefore, I appeal to you with an insistence to ask the Gszprom to send us a copy, because obviously the document is extremely important so that it cannot be found anywhere, and, again, I say, there are documents and messages in the media about its heroic signing. So don't waste any more time, Mr. Minister, and ask for a copy of this roadmap, and then I ask you to be given to the entire parliament, because imagine there are commitments that we don't know about, imagine there are projects that we don't know about, imagine inside for example the term "Turkish Stream" but the term "Balkan Stream," imagine it being gone. So my request is that we really don't waste any time. After those four months of running out of national resources, it is time to ask for a copy of the Gsprom. I'm really counting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u200	Do you have a hole, Minister? You don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u201	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u202	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u203	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I am taking for the second time a procedure on the same subject, and I regret that you are holding the meeting because it is to the President of the National Assembly. About half an hour ago she informed me that Minister Katsarov was on leave and could not give either oral or written answers to questions on parliamentary control as she took paid annual leave. However, we now see in the media that the Minister is at a meeting with the President, that is, he is obviously not on leave when he is on a meeting with the President, that is, he can go to the President, but he cannot come to the National Assembly or sign the answers he owes under parliamentary control. And I cannot understand why this concealment by Minister Katsarov and why he does not fulfil his obligations under law to meet the deadlines. Obviously she is not on leave and it is obviously a lie that has been reported to the President that she is on leave, because you can all include the meeting with President Radev at the moment on the topic: the measures for the coronavirus, where you will see that the Minister is at work and present. So, Madam President, I regret to bring it to you again, the question is to President Miteva, who has obviously been misled by the Minister for taking an annual leave, and that is another reason why he should come to the next National Assembly meeting on Wednesday or until the end of parliamentary control today, and to explain why he is ignoring the National Assembly. Why does he not carry out his duties under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are, again, repeated, with the rank of law, and violates the laws by not answering the questions using an obvious false motive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u204	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. We'll consider your procedural proposal. But as I recall, the Prime Minister had said that the Minister was on leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u205	He's at work right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u206	We're continuing with parliamentary control. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please rest in the hall. There is a question addressed to the Minister of Service of Energy Andrey Zhivkov by the National Representative Dani Kanazireva about stopping the career activity in the village of Belashtitsa, Municipality of Rhodopi, Plovdiv district. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u207	Madam President! Mr. Minister, you know and are familiar with the problem of career activity in Belashtitsa, Municipality of Rodopi, Plovdiv district. This has been a problem for 20 years, but particularly acute in the last two years. As a regional governor, I have caused a number of checks and with an act of the Minister of Energy, the activity has been discontinued. Of course, there was a court appeal. One contract expired, but the other.. the decision was revoked. I'm not gonna let myself comment on a court order. During this time, we used the time to justify the long-term suspension of karst springs that fall into the second and third sanitary zones, which leads to the cessation or prohibition of career activity. Apart from that, we have nearby landslides, one of which is active, the other is stabilized, the two are potential. That is to say, we have plenty of reasons to use and not allow the renewal of the activity that has happened and, in fact, the protests have continued to stop this activity for only six months, because February 2022 is really over and this contract expires. That is to say, it is only about those six months, to really protect the interest of the local population, and not the interest, but life and health, and living conditions in the locality. In addition, with strong winds, this dust, which is carried out by all activities, affects not only the entire Rhodope collar, but also a large part of the districts in Plovdiv. Apart from that, we have a number of violations, and I will only point to one violation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u208	Mrs. Kanazireva, focus on finishing up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u209	I'm graduating. No irrigation system has been built and the simple reason is that there are no water sources in Belashtitsa. They are not enough to cover the needs of the population, let alone to pollute the pursuit of career activities. I have asked a few questions, but the most important one is: will you issue an act to stop the activity of only one career again? Because if that happens, the actual term of the contract, even if it is appealed, will expire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u210	Yes, Mrs. Kanazireva. Thank you. Minister Zhivkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, I now have here a prepared text in which to read the factual and legal context, but you know it very well. I also know it very well because I had meetings with both the Initiative Committee and the Mayor of Rodopi and we discussed all these things. I want to tell you that I am totally on the side of the people who are there because I saw them, they were with me and I saw their suffering while we were talking. In both meetings, they were two separate meetings with the Initiative Committee, and with the mayor of the Municipality of Rodopi we united around the idea that in order to stop the contract, to terminate the contract or to stop the activities of the career, we must have a sufficiently well-grounded legal act. Because, you know, before that career is stopped, then there's a court order that cancels our order. If this happens a second time, I'm worried that the Ministry will have a claim for missed benefits that will not be small at all. So our idea at both meetings was to make a joint working group, the mayor of the Municipality of Rodopi is a lawyer, as far as I understand, so he is aware of the things where we include the Ministry of Ecology, because the problems that you list and the people listed them are mainly related to part of Ecology. And the truth is that there is an EIA that has passed and is in force.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u212	It's without EIA.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u213	Even without the EIA some things, so I am here for you, but I want to do things so that they are legally sustainable, that the Minister of Energy does not have to break the law by stopping one concession or another, because this will have consequences for the Ministry of Energy, respectively, for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u214	Thank you, Minister Zhivkov. For a line, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u215	Mr. Minister, I understand your concerns as a lawyer, and as a former district manager, I know the whole problem very well in Genesis, and I know the interests that stand next door. That's why I said I wouldn't allow myself to comment on the judgment. Absolutely, yes, you're right, but here we have, on the one hand, some administrative procedures, and, yes, somewhat the Ministry of Energy to defend itself, but on the other hand, we have categorically the living conditions of the people, and not only in this populated area. The Municipality of Rodopi is one of the big municipalities, and I say again, with strong winds we have a number of experts that clearly show and prove that they also affect three of the neighborhoods that are the size of other district cities, in fact the clean air. For me, it should be very quick to act. The time has even been wasted because it has been almost a month and a half since the decision of the SAC. As long as I was a district governor, I really ordered all state institutions within a few days to carry out checks. And believe me that in this case, in these violations, in the absence of any introduction into air purification technologies, I say again, the most elementary... lack of water because there is no water, you cannot convince me that MoEW or Energy cannot issue an act. Even if the Ministry then suffered any damage or the state, let's say that these concessions were allowed by the state in 2001 and people with their health and lifestyle have paid too much, so I think that this is already worth the risk. Even if it really is a poet and then, nevertheless, there really are claims to the Ministry of Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u217	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, I fully agree with you. In the concession contract there is a clause that clearly states when a concession can be terminated, and that is when life and health are threatened. However, what I want to achieve together, in the fastest way, is to have a decision of a competent authority that this is the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u218	Moss.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u219	Yeah, Moss, that's right. And as soon as there is a decision of such a competent authority, I am ready to terminate the concession. I agree with you. I'm available 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u220	Thank you. A request was received from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev to the Minister of Energy on the request of the resignation of the operational management of Bulgartransgaz. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u221	Dear Minister! On 5 July 2021, you requested the resignation of the management of Bulgartransgaz. After a KEWRC report, you requested from the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which may very much indicate that the license for the transmission operator of Bulgartrasgaz could be revoked. In this regard, my questions to you are: how far did the inspection go? Is there any risk that the license of Bulgartransgaz will be revoked? We all know that Bulgartransgaz is the enterprise that is in debt much past the Turkish Stream. Last but not least, is the procedure for removing the management of Bulgartransgazs completed, or if not, at what stage is it? Also an important issue in connection with the enormous obligations. What effect can this have on the financial situation of the company, something that is extremely important? Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u222	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u223	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mirchev! With regard to your questions, I can give you the following information: By letter of 5 July 2021, the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission sent to the Ministry of Energy a report of an inspection carried out on documents of the Bulgartransgaz.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The infringements found in the report are related to the fact that for the conclusion of the contracts for implementation and financing of the Project for Development and Extension of the Transport System of Bulgartransgaz the Company did not ask the KEWRC for permission to carry out the transactions in accordance with art. Article 21 of the Energy Act and Article 21 of the Energy Act. 92 of Ordinance No 3 of 21 March 2013 on the licensing of energy activities. The report does not address the issue of the possible formation of proceedings for the withdrawal of the licence of Bulgartransgaz. ) (a.k.a. 4 of the above-mentioned protocol, the KEWRC has decided to draft an order to establish a working group to further examine whether the cumulative effect of the transactions concluded by Bulgartransgaz (EAD) has led to the overindebtion of the energy undertaking and to endanger the security of supply. At present, we do not have any information on the results of the study. In the event of such information to the Ministry, we will let you know further. As to what stage is the procedure for the removal of the management of the Bulgartransgaz..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By my letter to BEH of 6 July 2021, I requested the suspension of the management of the gas company. I have indicated in the letter that the necessary legal and factual actions should be carried out to put an end to the established vicious practices, as well as to engaging in the responsibility of the persons who have allowed those practices to take place. In fulfilling this request, the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding has instructed the Supervisory Board of the Bulgarian Energy Holding to fulfil its powers and take appropriate action. By its decision-protocol of 13 July 2021, the Supervisory Board of Bulgartransgaz is requesting an opinion from the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control, which performs the functions of a unit which coordinates public policy in relation to public undertakings, what is the meaning of the expression "removement', and what does the concept of "Management of Bulgartransgaz' include as a public undertaking within the meaning of the Public Enterprises Act? By a subsequent decision, as outlined in Protocol of 15 July 2021, the Supervisory Board of the Bulgar Transgaz (Bulgar Transgaz) with a view to its powers under art. 24, p. 2 in relation to t. 1 of the Company's Statute has decided that there are no grounds for abolishing the management of Bulgartransgaz. By letter dated 23 July 2021, the Executive Director of BEH informed me that the Company, acting as sole owner of the capital of Bulgartransgaz, would exercise its rights and appoint an internal audit by informing the Ministry of Energy of its results in due time. This is the vicious circle in which we turned with the Bulgarian Energy Holding, and the consequence was that I requested the resignation of the management of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. That's the situation at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u224	Do you have any supplementary questions? Thank you. There is a further question again by the MP Ivaylo Mirchev about the energy security and independence of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u225	These questions, Minister, are already more interesting for the larger audience. As we are talking about the corrupt good of our colleagues here from GERB, we begin with it in concrete terms. What is the value of the investment costs incurred for the construction of the Balkan Stream (Turkish Stream) in Bulgaria? We know this is a transit pipeline that fully serves Putin so that the gas from Turkey can reach Serbia. Secondly, what are the reasons for not providing for deviations for the construction of a transmission network in the Northwestern region of Bulgaria? We and our colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" and from the Bulgarian Power Plant have been many times at the station "Rassovo." It was built very quickly and if everything in Bulgaria, gentlemen, was built so quickly, I must tell you that this country would bloom. The gas transmission network is built incredibly fast, much faster than the connection with Greece, and the special station Rasovo, it grew up like a sponge, it happened very quickly. Thirdly, has the project been put into operation with the procedures and documents required under Bulgarian law? And on the fourth, how much natural gas is transported through the Balkan Stream (Turkish Stream) on a daily basis and from the start of its operation and do they correspond to the parameters originally set? Fifthly, have you informed the European Commission that the Balkan Stream (Turkish Stream) has only the functions of a transit pipeline? Now, it is very important to say, for Northwestern Bulgaria there is a need to build a deviation and we have repeatedly appealed for a specific position of the Ministry of Energy in this regard, Mr. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, the former prime minister, in the same way, and since no one was interested in this work in the Balkan Stream itself, this transit pipeline is not intended in any way to be at this stage. You will tell us whether there are different options to be gas supply for Northwestern Bulgaria... something the whole region suffers from there and we find this extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u226	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u227	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, what is the value? The project for the extension of the infrastructure of the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serbian border Balkan Stream includes two sites of the Bulgarian-Turkish border in the section from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the compressor station of the Bulgarian-Turkish-Turkish-Serbian border, and for the development of the infrastructure of the Bulgarian-Bulgarian highway to the Serbian border. According to information from the Bulgarian-Turkish border, the total cost incurred so far related to the implementation of the Project for the extension of the infrastructure of the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serb region is 2 billion. The Commission 661 thousand. BGN 576. without VAT. This amount includes costs which are not subject to VAT and the part of the amount due VAT is also charged under the legislation in force in the Republic of Bulgaria. This value includes all the costs of realization, including construction, provision of services, supplies and others until the introduction of the operation of the site. According to information, again from the Bulgarian-Serbian border is connected to the existing network of the Technical conditions have been created for the future connection of the transmission gas pipeline to the Bhutan crane hub, Chiren, with the intended investment intention of the Bulgartransgaz project for a DN 500-diameter pipeline to the underground gas storage. The project for extension of the transmission infrastructure from the Bulgarian-Turkish to the Bulgarian-Serb border was put into operation gradually in 2019 and 2020, with all legal procedures and requirements of this category of sites being met. In 2019, the first two stages of the Project were put into operation with permissions issued by the National Construction Control Directorate for use on 17 October 2019 for the gas measuring station stage In 2020, stage "Linea Part" and stage compressor station "Rasovo" were put into operation with permission to use on 23 December 2020, issued by the DNC. With regard to the quantities of natural gas transferred at the interconnection points of the Bulgarian-Turkish border, entry point of the gas transmission network 205,000. 834 megawatt hours correspond to the quantities requested for the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 July 2021. The quantities transferred on a daily basis measured at the entry point shall correspond to those requested. At the Bulgarian-Serb border, a point of entry-exit for the gas network, Kireevo/Zichars, the sum of 83 million. 493 thousand. 646 megawatt hours correspond to the quantities requested for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 July 2021. On a daily basis, the measured quantities at the exit point of the transmission system border with Serbia shall also correspond to those requested. This information is also available on the website of Bulgartransgaz. Regarding the European Commission on Information from Bulgartransgaz The European Commission supports the initiative to implement a gas distribution centre in the Balkans in Bulgaria by building the necessary infrastructure to introduce our country's role in the European market. All investment activities, initiatives for the independent gas operator are included in accordance with European Union legislation and national energy legislation in the following investment plans the Community Ten Year Network Development Plan; gas regional investment plans for Central and Eastern Europe region and for the Southern Corridor region and the national Ten Year Development Plan for the Network of Bulgartransgaz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u228	Thank you very much. Asking questions? You don't. We should thank Minister Andrey Zhivkov for answering the questions asked. Here is the Minister of Work for Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Violeta Komitova, who will answer a few questions. The first question was asked by the MP Manol Genov about the poor quality of drinking water in the water network of the village of Brestovitsa, Rodopi municipality, Plovdiv district, in the last few months. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u229	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, for about a year and more the quality of drinking water in the village of Brestovitsa, Plovdiv District has been greatly deteriorated due to strong content and repeated deviations in the content of manganese in the drinking water. I have asked this question to Minister Avramova, I think it was January or December at the beginning of the year or at the end, and from this tribune she has made a very responsible commitment that this problem will be resolved permanently and soon. I'm asking it because the voters, the people who live in the village of Brestovica, want to hear the answer: is there a development of the problem, what will happen next, how will it happen? I would like to stress that this problem has also been strongly exposed and overexposed, and used pre-electionly here by people from the middle of the room. Boyko Borisov promised on March 29 to drink clean water. You can check it in the media. It's everywhere. The district manager promised on April 5th, as I recall, a first dig. Both I and the residents of the village of Brestovica, Minister, would like to hear from you an answer from the Ministry of Regional Development: what will happen next, what has happened so far and ultimately these concerns when will they end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u230	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Minister Komitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u231	Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This story with Brestovitsa is very long. I have a very long text that I've written, but I'll try to make it brief. The problem with Brestovica's manganese was identified in early 2020, unfortunately. We have faced this problem in our short term and I can tell you a very short story. First, in 2016 until 2018, a regional pre-investment survey was carried out for the Plovdiv region, the so-called IPIP tasked with monitoring the systems and targeting measures for settlements with more than 50 inhabitants. In this complex project for Brestovitsa we have found that the water sources are of the required quality and quantity of water, but there is a problem that the network is old and that is why in this plan the IPIP is called, is provided only a reconstruction of the existing plumbing network. This is happening in 2018, so is the plan. In 2020, when citizens are already complaining about the contaminated water, the water water water, Plovdiv, makes its own expert commission and proves that there has been a blur in the watery area of the Vucha river, which they believe in this document, has occurred after the construction of the hydropower plant. Accordingly, the Water and Water Community is starting to rescue the situation in 2020 again, and what is it doing? It makes three new wells for watering clean water, which significantly reduces manganese in the transmission network, but puts filters on the plumbing, puts fire hydrants. All this is meant to reduce manganese in the water. But the prognosis of these rapid and emergency measures is that from three to five years old, the new three drilling wells will be connected as a water layer with the remaining contaminated water sources and we will again have a problem. After that, the Water and Water Network of Plovdiv started working on the IPIP and developed a complete water and water project for reconstruction of the water network of the city of Plovdiv. In March this year he valued this plan to 26 million and applied to the water holding for financing. But it happens that this loan is not granted, as in the water service project worth about 26 million half the money is for the water network, the other money is for asphalting the streets. Furthermore, this project, which I have already seen this year, is a project to replace a pipe network with an unproven water source. He's going nowhere and he's getting nowhere! And the water holding company, I guess, wasn't at this meeting March 2021, has two motives: due to the cost of the project double because of the asphalt and the unproven water source refuses funding. Naturally, this problem comes to the caretaker government and immediately begins to come to us letters. I realize how serious this problem is.. concerned citizens, mayors, regional governors, civil organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u232	Guide yourself to the conclusion of the answer, Mrs. Comitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u233	We've had several meetings with all these organizations. We have organized another audit by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which has proven that we have a blur in the area of the hydropower plant "Kadievo" and we have identified five measures that need to be implemented: surveying, determining a new water source, replacing the system, reconstruction of pumping stations and replacement of the water supply network.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u235	Mrs. Komitova, in your brief version of the answer you were comprehensive enough to understand the colleagues and to hear the residents of Brestovica that something had been done, something had happened. But I want you, even in your short term, to make a commitment. The source of manganese, who is it? In many of these reports that I have read, it turns out that this blurting is the cause of manganese. There's been complaints, signals. Mrs. Avramova, when I asked her, as I said January or December, she promised me and told me at the time that all checks were being carried out. Is there anyone in this country who can subsequently film the buildings implemented for the construction of the hydropower plant "Kadievo"? To see, to know where the source is. Is it in the process of amending the original project, whether someone has committed a breach in the implementation of the project, and is this blurring not a source of manganese pollution? I want you to promise me. The DNCC is under your control. Order one check, request the documentation......................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u236	Hole, Minister Komitova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, I can answer that question. We have already done a survey in connection with hydroelectric power station Kadievo. We requested some documents on how it arose in this place and obtained a document from the Ministry of Environment and Water in 2008, which says that the hydropower power plant Cadievo will not contaminate the environment and there is no need for EIA. In other words, the hydropower power plant is then built without the relevant sanction of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Unfortunately, this happened in 2008, we have this document. However, the general solution to this problem does not keep me warm that there were or did not have documents is two cases. The first case is to find new water sources for the future new replacement of Brestovica's network, for which we have done our part to the Ministry of Agriculture. We are headed for several terrains for which we can obtain the right to drill and establish the presence of quantity and quality of drinking water. The second longer-term problem is the removal of this pollutant, called manganese, which has been proven in two scientific expertises: one ordered by the Water and Water Department Plovdiv, and one from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We're working this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u238	Thank you, Minister Komitova. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Zaprev Dinev on a procedure for changing the ownership of streets in Petrich and stopping the renovation activities of the streets of the town of Petrich, and stopping the renovation activities on the road from the village of Parvomay to the village of Gabrene, municipality of Petrich. It's about Minister of the Interior Violeta Komitova. Mr. Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u239	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the municipality of Petrich has put before you this worrying question regarding the procedure for changing the ownership of streets by public municipal property in public state property. Since 2013, all heavy traffic has been going through these streets. These streets are really the connecting link between the Republican roads from the border crossing to the Hellenic Republic to the border crossing of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Traffic is really very big there, all the more so because of the Kovid crisis in the last year and the closure of borders between the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Hellenic Republic, a very large part of the heavy traffic has been redirected precisely through these streets in the city. By decision of the Municipal Council of Petrich, consent was given by the Municipal Council to make this change and we are still waiting for the decision of the Council of Ministers. Of course, it must confirm the new list of Republican roads following a proposal from the Ministry of Regional Development. This procedure is quite delayed, I expect you to answer me how far has it gone? But the main and bigger problem is that in the last two months there has also been a renovation to replace the asphalt flooring right on these streets in the city. Unknownly, this renovation was stopped about two months ago, and during these two months thousands of inhabitants living on these streets, as well as close to them, were subjected, to inhuman living conditions from the dust that occurred when heavy goods were passed. The municipality of Petrich fulfilled its commitment. The plumbing network was replaced under the asphalt flooring, there was a selected contractor for public procurement and a replacement of the sidewalks around the street...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u240	Form the question, Mr. Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u241	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I'm graduating. The questions are: when will the procedure for changing the property of the indicated streets in Petrich be completed and when will the construction and installation activities continue on those streets that were stopped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u242	Come in for an answer, Minister Komitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u243	Mr. Dinev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here we have a story that begins on 17 March this year, then makes an interdepartmental group. I'm very familiar with this case. I've also spoken to the mayor of Petrich. There is then one protocol of technical omissions and errors in the attached documentation, of which Petrich Municipality was informed on 13 April. Then comes the caretaker government. They want speeding up the procedure, we're conducting some correspondence. Finally, on 14 June we have all the complete documentation and are currently specifying the exact lengths of the sections whose property will be changed, then an annex between API and the municipality of Petrich will be signed. The MRDP will then begin a procedure to change the ownership of these roads... III-108 and III-198, so the procedure is moving. I'm sorry, that was the pace we could provide if we slowed you down. Regarding the other question: about the repair of the Podgorski road.............................................. are you asking yourself or...................................................... [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Dinev.]] The road in town. I have an answer from the Road Infrastructure Agency that we have not entrusted repairs to the street network of the town of Petrich. So I can't answer anything here, and I can't answer the sections that are indicated here. I can tell you that this is an urban street network and it is not within the authority of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u244	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u245	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Madam Minister, first of all, thank you for letting us know. Yeah, I knew there were meetings with the mayor of Petrich as well. I hope that this process of change of ownership will be a fact as soon as possible. About shutting down repairs. I'm amazed you're saying that there was no such contract because they actually started construction and construction activities along this path. Yes, this is part of the urban street network, but since 2013, notice, since 2013, there has been an agreement, because this time and precisely these streets were the connecting point for the passage of all traffic, when it was done and it was built the Struma Motorway. Since then, there has been an agreement between the municipality of Petrich, the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development that these streets should be well-built. Now I do not know exactly how the procedure was going and what happened, but I am a MP from the municipality of Petrich and I stand here to ask what is happening because thousands of residents currently live, as I have said before, in some inhumane conditions. It is very important for me, as a resident of the town of Petrich, and for my fellow citizens, of course, that this case should be resolved as soon as possible and that what has been started will be finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u246	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. For the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u247	Excuse me, we may be talking about an agreement between the MRB and the municipality of Petrich. It's good for you to give it to us. We'll answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u248	Thank you very much. There is a request to end the matter of the village of Brestovica, if you don't mind, to a question addressed by Mrs. Dani Kanazireva to the minister of service for regional development. Please, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u249	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! I asked that we continue the subject of Brestovitsa and the presence of manganese in drinking water. An extremely important topic, however, with which, Madam Minister, I have the feeling that you have not been familiar with the complete case file. Even when this problem arose, because the truth is that the presence of manganese appeared in the last two years, you very well said that this was past 2008. The moment I appeared as a district manager, I ordered immediately and set up an Interdepartmental Commission with the participation of over seven state institutions, including personally present. This interdepartmental committee clearly identified the cause of pollution, as you said the minivan who was built. Apart from that, in order to ensure that we also ensure that you, as the Ministry, are protected and your interest, at my request, was given expertise by external experts from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, by the Mining and Geological Institute to get acquainted in depth, to establish the genesis of the problem and to clearly prove the reason for the emergence of manganese, and also to give both a short-term and long-term solution to the problem. The short-term solution was to build three duplicate drilling wells from the lower water wells by tampering the old wells to prevent manganese from entering the new drilling wells.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u250	Mrs. Kanazireva, make your way to completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u251	Just a second, it's important that we clear this up. This expertise is available in the water, in the District and you have enough evidence to start action. A procedure was also carried out because the mayor of the municipality of Rodopi...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u252	The question?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u253	...of the BSP, it is the BSP, declared a state of emergency, initiated procedure, replacement of the internal plumbing network and the water supply.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u254	Mrs. Kanazireva, state the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u255	Is this procedure stopped, will it start again and in what form will it start? And for a new water source, Mrs. Minister, it's been studied, it's on the territory of Stamboliiski municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u257	Please gather the team, everything is available in the district and in the water. I call on you and appeal for faster action to resolve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u258	Minister Komitova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, I have already told the story of this case. With regard to your question, I will tell you: I repeat for the second time that the Water and Water Network has conducted a public procurement contract for a project of a water network worth two public engineering contracts. The project is called "Full reconstruction and replacement of the existing plumbing network and construction of a new water supply system of the village of Brestovitsa, Municipality of Rodopi. There is a selected performer "Gert Group" Ltd. There is a second contract for construction supervision during construction. And here we have an elected contractor, but this public procurement has no one to stop it, it is moving by the Water and Water Department Plovdiv. I know all the paperwork in detail and maybe it wasn't clear, I was just talking about Brestovitsa. This project was not linked to a sufficient, clear, categorically proven water source. He was just replacing the network, and our problem is contaminated water. That's why we're looking for a new water source, looking for new places, and not just a new one, but looking for water quantity and quality, because that's what we're looking for with probes. We can find water somewhere, but if it doesn't have a flow rate, we won't do our job. So at the moment, the project cannot be launched to replace the pipes, because the contaminated water will flow on them. And we already have evidence that the old pipe network has deposits of manganese and iron, so it needs to be replaced. If we use the same pipes to flush contaminated water from where the water is coming from, we will again... [[Reply by MP Danny Kanazireva.]] Well, how is that not true? What's the reason we don't solve Brestovica's water issue? Do you think I don't want good water in Brestovica? These are our people. They may be your constituents, but I accept them as Bulgarian citizens. Replies from the MP Danny Kanazireva. Applause by IHN.)
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u260	Please, you're entitled to a line. Thank you. Mrs. Kanazireva, you're entitled to a line. My request was for you not to call from the scene.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u261	I'm sorry. Madam Minister, you're very confused. I'm asking you to stop with this edifying tone because you're not here to edify the MPs. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] You're a minister of the service who hasn't even been elected. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] The first one that is, has been built... Mrs. Manolova, not from a place, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u262	Please, Mrs. Kanazireva! [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u263	I've done a lot of things, unlike you, Mrs. Manolova, except to talk. Please. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u264	Mrs. Kanazireva, continue. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Mrs. Manolova, please, let's continue calmly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u265	Enough with the hysterics, Mrs. Manolova, please. You called me personally to ask about the problem. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u266	Mrs. Kanazireva, perhaps you should continue with the line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u267	Yeah, let's just stop with the...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u268	No, don't answer her. A line to the minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u269	Madam Minister, duplicate drilling wells and tamponized old ones were built to provide clean drinking water before starting replacement of the internal plumbing network and the water supply. It is not true that now, if you replace it, dirty water will flow. It's running with manganese because there's deposits on the pipes from the old drilling wells. April month new drilling wells were launched, and during this period you can use it. And I say again, don't look. It was found by the experts and in the water and in the district management, a new water source and it is on the territory of the municipality of Stamboliiski. You're delaying solving the problem. And we've done, Mrs. Manolova, much more...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u270	Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u271	...than you can imagine at all, and in a year that was the worst, you know, with a kind of crisis, with the whole hospital organization I haven't abandoned this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u272	If you're done with the line, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u273	There's no problem that I've abandoned, and there's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u274	Thank you. Minister Komitova, come in. Okay, you're giving up the backrest. By procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u275	It's the way it's supposed to be. Madam President, I ask you very much to follow the rules. We're not here to hear a former minister say what he didn't do or what the new minister wants to do. I beg you very much to ask the questions, to hear the answers and not to argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u276	I accept the note. I tried to make such a remark. Mrs. Zaykova, you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u278	But I also have a request to the Chamber not to engage in any altercations either, Mrs. Manolova. There is a question addressed to the Minister of Service Violeta Komitova from the MPs Tomislav Donchev and Nikolay Nankov concerning the procedure for design and construction of a site: Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u279	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Komitova, on 22 March 2021 it was announced that the price offers in the tender procedure for design and construction of the tunnel under Shipka peak were opened. Only on 14 July, however, was the decision to appoint a contractor published on the buyer profile of the API website. As a priority, because of the extreme importance for the connectivity between North and South Bulgaria, the project "Design and construction of a site: "Travel of the town of Gabrovo from km 20+124.50 to km 30+673,48, including a tunnel below Shipka peak" was asked by API to be included for funding under the Programme "Transport." It is still part of the international Corridor No 9. In the context of this, I ask you: is this project a priority for the new management of MRDP? And what forced this delay and the movement of the decision to elect a contractor for almost four months? Apart from that, there are a few nuances that lie in the public domain, and I would like you, as the principal of the API, to bring some clarity to the subject. According to media publications, it is precisely the auction under Shipka peak for nearly 360 million. lv. is at the heart of the dismissal of your appointed Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, already former boss, Apostol Minchev. It is said that Minchev refused to stop the auction. I won't go into details, there are institutions that, if they decide, will take over. Even the Apostle Minchev himself, which is more interesting, does not deny that. Moreover, he confirms it. Only your position has not been known so far, and we would like it to be specified. According to a publication in a media, they are a lot of media, but I will quote a special "Mediapool", not by accident quotes "Mediapool" in this case, unofficially it is said that a councillor of the President has ordered to change the ranking of the new board of API, has failed to follow the instructions and has therefore been replaced, quote. I ask you, has the former head of API been pressured, and is that why he got fired because he didn't give in to the pressure? It's very important how you respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u280	Mr. Nankov, your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u281	Ten seconds, I'm running out of time. Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u282	Yeah, just get your bearings.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u283	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u284	Here you are, Minister Komitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u285	Dear Vice-Presidents, Dear Mr. Nankov, Mr. Donchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Of course, this project, the tunnel under Shipka peak, is included in the Transport Connectivity Program, 2021. The Programme currently does not have final approval. I believe that none of us here are in doubt that North and South Bulgaria should finally be connected. I'm pretty sure he's a priority for the Republican Road Network, so there's nothing to convince me. I'll tell you what happened to the contract. The public procurement was opened on 22 October 2019. The API received offers, participants a lot, the technical assessment of the proposals was made on 15 March 2021. The prices were opened on 19 March 2021 and a justification of the price was adopted on 2 April 2021, as it concerns deadlines. From 2 April 2021 to 11 May 2021 This is the beginning of the caretaker government, including until 25 May 2021, when managing the API's old leadership, we have 55 days in which the old leadership could really have chosen a performer. We've got a 55-day delay here, maybe it's about changing power, maybe people didn't know what to do and so on. But we're moving on. We've had a hole here for almost two months. On 25 June 2021, the new API management requested companies to extend their bids until 31 October 2021 and on 14 July 2021 the API management was assembled and made a ranking and selected contractor. Accordingly, on the same date, all the protocols of these decisions are uploaded to the API website. That was the question. Did we have another question here?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u286	If you want, you can have a line in the back. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u287	Madam President, Madam Minister, Members of the National Assembly! This project is 100 years old as an idea. The first attempts at some technical particularity were made 30 years ago. The first concrete efforts for realization were decades ago and they led to concrete results. First of all, it's built no less complicated than the tunnel facility itself, that's the way to go. It functions, not that there's nothing else to do there. To a large extent, the European Commission is convinced that this is a priority project and there is no doubt for me that it will also be financed under the new operational programme, at least because it is eligible for funding, it is on a teni-track. However, this project cannot be put off indefinitely in time, because today it is more important than 100 years ago. Bulgaria needs a minimum of two quick links between the North and the South, including for the reason that the North towards the South is a transport enclave in the south we have three highways built, in the north only pieces of highway. And here time is a factor. For whatever reason bureaucratic irregularities, technical obstacles, political reasons, and personnel, cannot be allowed to delay this project for any reason. And if I have a supplementary question, it is: despite everything you said, giving us the technical details, when do you expect to have a selected performer? I'm very far from any business intrigue, sympathy, antipathy to a particular contractor. When do you expect after all the work done to have a selected performer and to start specific work on the site? He's not that complicated. We're not talking about a 10-mile tunnel, we're talking about a tunnel three kilometers and 200 meters long.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u288	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Minister Komitova, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u289	Dear Mr. Donchev, I'm continuing the procedure. A contract with the selected contractor could be concluded immediately after 14 July. I can point out who the companies are, if you're interested, they're posted on the MPD website, so we don't waste time. The question lies in this: If we conclude a contract with the selected contractor and within three months there is no funding, the whole public procurement will go to nothing, and it has indeed started a long time ago. There's a huge risk. That's the first thing I want to tell you. The second thing, however, that I think is more important. I agree with the importance of this project, what you have pointed out here, and I want to tell you that this is a strategic project for Bulgaria and perhaps this treaty should be concluded by a regular government. I do not think it is the job of the caretaker government to deal with such important strategic issues. For a reason, I pointed out the 55 days in which the previous government could have solved the issue. I'm sorry it didn't solve it, and I think the next one should continue this job.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u290	Thank you, Minister Komitova. There is a question by the National Representative Maya Bozidarova Manolova on state policy in coordination of the business plans of the water operators for 2022.. 2026 from the Associations of Water and Water. Here's your question, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u291	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Minister! With effect from 1 January 2022 the KEWRC must have confirmed the new business plans of the water operators. To this end, the business plans had to be submitted to the regulator by 1 July 2021. This has done almost all the water operators without Dobrich and without Sofia-city. What is seen from the imported business plans is that, as of January 1st, they are expected after the heat shock from increasing steam bills, after the electric shock from raising electricity bills, now and a very serious increase in water prices, which on average for Bulgaria is nearly 30%. For areas such as Sliven, the price of water is about 50% to rise, more than 30% are in Smolyan, Yambol, Vidin, Sofia, Shumen. Before being imported and approved, of course, these business plans must be discussed and coordinated in the water associations in which the state has 35 percent of the votes in the general meeting. And in order for these business plans to be approved, a three-quarter majority of the votes in the General Assembly are needed. This is because 27 of the total 28 water operators, water companies in the district cities have 51% and more state participation. My question to you is regarding the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: should business plans be approved, which provide for a drastic increase in the price of water from 1 January 2022, and at the same time without performance of quality indicators, continuity of water supply, social tolerance and during the previous price period, and also during the time being set? In particular, my question to you is as to what instructions you gave to your representatives of the state regarding the discussions at the general meetings, should they raise questions such as: reducing total losses on water supply systems, ensuring continuity of water supply in all settlements, water quality, where possible without manganese and no harmful substances, improving services, implementing investment plans? Of course, raising the salaries of employees in the sector, but also optimizing the structure of the administration?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u292	To navigate, Mrs. Manolova...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u293	My question to you is: what is your policy regarding the general meetings of the Water Associations, which will directly affect the plans as of 1 January 2022 and the increase in the cost of water?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u294	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Komitova. You have 5 minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u295	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs. Manolova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! This is a very sick subject that concerns the whole country. It is, firstly, about the price of water, which, however, stems from 28 commercial water companies that fall within the scope of the MRF. Either way, the caretaker government had to face the business plan assignment. Here I make a clamp that we deal with the business plans of only those water operators who have a contract with water associations. We have water companies outside these associations and they are not subject to a sanction from the regional minister. The process happens so that the regional minister gives a mandate to the regional governor, who is the chairman of the association concerned. That's where the relevant business plans are addressed. Of course, they are prepared by the water companies. Now I have to say that business plans are subject to the Law on regulation of water services, to the written instructions of the KEWRC for price formation in the period 2022 and Regulation of the Council of Ministers for regulation of the prices of water services. Finally, so prepared, approved and adopted by the associations in the order in which Mrs Manolova said how the vote was done inside, I will now explain. These business plans enter the KEWRC, which is the last instance that approves water prices. However, in associations the state, when combined with more than one municipality, the association has 35 votes and 65 votes are of the other participants, decisions are made with three quarters of those present, so the new current water prices cannot always be imposed as decisions of these associations. To date, we have prepared 10 business plans that have been adopted. I have a list if you want, I can read them: for Veliko Tarnovo, Pleven, Yambol, Montana, Shumen, Silistra, Gabrovo, Haskovo, Targovishte and Razgrad, and the other 12 plans, because we are talking about 22 plans, will be approved by 31 August at the meetings of associations. What's the Regional Ministry's policy? First of all, the caretaker government had to face this problem anyway. We had to look at all the business plans, meet with the chiefs of water companies, we encountered a lot of problems. First, a very old network, great many losses of water, electricity appreciation, all supplies, and accordingly this affects a lot of price increases. Accordingly, this is now something that relates to the life we live. We have a new economic, social and demographic situation that needs to be reflected in these business plans without lobbying to raise the price. The other thing I can tell you is that the water supply network of these companies has become extremely outdated. According to data from the Regional Ministry, I do not know how correct this figure is, about 13 billion needs are here, here Mr. Nankov confirmed to restore the entire network, as the majority of this network is from the time of some previous times, 30 years ago. This leads to an awful lot of losses. We came across a formula for the cost of water, in which the more you lose, naturally, the higher the price, that is, there is no motive in the water operators to reduce the losses and so on, many problems. In any case, business plans will be drawn up for 31 August and submitted to the KEWRC for approval and coordination, they will enter into force from 1 January 2022. They do not apply to the current period. Of course, there is much more to be done in this sector. At the moment, many projects are being implemented in the Regional Ministry, but they are extremely insufficient. Some of them are financed by the Regional Ministry, another part is financed by the own funds of the water companies. We also have projects in the environment, on three lines we finance and we still can't keep up with the huge lag.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u296	Thank you, Minister Komitova. For a replica, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u297	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I will give the inaccuracies in your response perhaps to the fact that it is a mega ministry and it is possible that the deputy minister and the persons dealing with the plumbing sector were not particularly correct by preparing your response, because there are enough technical inaccuracies in it, for example, regarding the accepted business plans. I went to my troubles and claim that on August 5th, Haskovo's business plan was not adopted but was rejected by the Water Association. The same applies to Montana's business plan, to Shumen's business plan, to Kyustendil's business plan, and Veliko Tarnovo's business plan has been returned to redesign. What makes an impression in all these cities, as I am both an ombudsman and a president of a civil platform, I have repeatedly been in these and other areas of the country, especially where there are problems with water supply and water quality, I would like to tell you that, including in relation to business plans, there have been organised and protests of citizens, and municipal councils, for example, in a whole district of Haskovo, voted against the business plan proposed by the VK operator in Haskovo. The only person voted for is the representative of the State, which is, of course, insufficient to adopt this plan. The same is the situation in Shumen, where it is rejected even after the union of municipal councillors, by the otherwise heavily polarized municipal council in Shumen, they unite and even want the resignation of the head of the water operator because of the absurd intention in Shumen, where the water cannot drink and is not available, will be increased by nearly 130% by the end of the next period. In addition, the reform is expressed in increasing the cost of water so far, but also in increasing the cost of water over the last five years...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u298	Guide yourself, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u299	...and the funds collected, which were flown literally into the water operators, there was nothing to follow. There was no investment, no improvement in quality, no reduction in losses. My question is: will you ask a report of the five-year period that has expired for you to see at least as a result of the drastic increase in the cost of water, are any problems solved by the citizens with the water supply?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u300	Thank you. Minister Komitova, come in. That was a replica of a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u301	Mrs. Manolova, no one has let me down, I haven't made myself clear. At the MRDP, we have agreed on these plans, which I have mentioned 10 pieces, and they are currently under consideration in the relevant associations, so I have not exactly expressed myself. Otherwise, we are trying to cover the tasks in this sector, but as I am convinced that whatever government comes, these tasks will not be able to resolve at once, we are trying to put them in priority positions in the sense, where the most difficult situation is, to take a first position, to wait for funding, second, third and so on. I have already said that 13 billion by calculation of MRDPD will be necessary for this infrastructure. Even if we have this money, we are not ready to do all these projects, so slowly and gradually we have to work systematically year after year in that direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u302	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u303	Dear Mrs. Komitova, I understand the difficult situation you are in because the mess and chaos in the water sector are not involved by you, but by those who have made the reform and managed the sector for the last five years, some of them are sitting in this room. However, you are about to make difficult decisions anyway, and my appeal to you is: instead of approving and giving, figuratively speaking, an empty check, an empty power of attorney to your representatives in the water associations...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u304	Mrs. Manolova, your time was up. I'm giving you an opportunity for the second question, but be brief, if you please. Because you have two supplementary questions with a total of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u305	I've already asked them, and now I'm expressing my attitude to the answer to both questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u306	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u307	Well, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u308	There is. There is. Because you said you were going to ask a question, so I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u309	I asked them questions in time for questions. The minister answered me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u310	Go on. Now I have the right to express myself. Let's not argue about procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u311	Yes, Mrs. Manolova has experience, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u312	No, she asked a question, she doesn't have an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u314	Well, it's just that the board meeting, I understand that they don't have enough experience...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u315	You're entitled to an attitude, but you don't have a second question anymore. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u316	Well, I asked them the two questions just now, if you were paying attention, not that you have to, but let me express my attitude to the minister's response. It is an appeal to withdraw, to insist on the withdrawal of the business plans in question, because even after the hearing of the President of the KEWRC today we have heard a recognition that these business plans require unrealistic prices that will not even be approved by the KEWRC, which in its previous practice has proven to protect energy companies and water operators. Even the KEWRC has admitted that these prices are highly increased, so our expectation of you is to insist that these business plans be withdrawn. I also appeal to you, as it is not clear how much longer the office will work and you as a minister, to undertake a discussion of the Water Services Act, which was prepared by the previous government and on which there are many opinions, including negative ones, but anyway the reform that GERB started in 2016, apart from blowing the price of the water of the Bulgarian citizens, achieved nothing else. So changes will be needed, including legislative changes, and it is important that someone in the case of the Ministry of Regional Development take on this extremely important topic for the Bulgarians.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I gave you more than a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u318	And I ask you to oblige the water companies to publicly show their accounts for the last five years, which you can do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u319	Thank you. There has been a question from the National Representative Nikolay Nankov concerning suspended infrastructure projects in the territory of Lovech district. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the issue is no longer very up to date, and I suppose the answer, in view of the actions you have taken in the last week, initially one, then another, mutually contradicting one another, is therefore gone and, in your explanation, the Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the projects in the Road Infrastructure Agency have been stopped, which have been awarded under the current repair and maintenance contracts. I am familiar with the letter of the new interim chairman of the Board of Directors of the Road Infrastructure Agency, with which a letter, although quite present, is being resumed. In order not to list all the objects and to go into unnecessary detail after this action has been carried out, I rather want to ask the question: when exactly will they be resumed, as the letter has been dated since the middle of last week? The letter that we referred to to the Chairman of the Board of the Agency's Directorate-General for Road Infrastructure is, but we do know that when we stop a construction process, albeit on a renovated programme of a Republican road, it is not to press a button with one such letter, with an order or another regulatory act, and to restart the process immediately. In other words, it takes some technological time for the performers themselves to re-start the activities and we know that these are road projects that are extremely important. We had a series of questions, questions, last week, and you answered them. My specific question, once again, is: when exactly will these repairs be resumed in Lovech district, extremely important not only for the inhabitants of the area, but also for all its guests, but also for the health and safety of all travelers on our road network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u321	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Minister Komitova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u322	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Nankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I have prepared here a very long answer for all the roads of Lovech district, including for the reinforcement of landslides, but perhaps I will not respond to it. We are talking about a letter of 19 July, with which Apostol Minchev stopped all repairs, which was not necessary, as no one can either stop or release these repairs. Last time I made it quite clear that these repairs depend entirely and solely on the will of the companies working on these constructions, and so I find this letter very foolish and pointless. Then we sent another letter. We don't want them to stop the trials, we want them to continue. I have already informed the National Assembly that we are working honestly with these companies, because in your area of Lovech, we have an agreement. Under a public procurement contract, a consortium is working for 22 million, and we've overcharged another 80 million, and that money hasn't been paid. Indeed, the whole thing, you are aware, is based on the honest word and the will of the companies. If that's an answer that pleases you, that's the way it is. I'm the last person who wants to stop these repairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u323	Thank you. Do you have a line? No. There is a question from the MP Rositsa Kirova to Minister Komitova concerning suspended infrastructure projects in the territory of Vidin district. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u324	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Komitova, my question is related to two specific long-awaited repairs for the residents of Vidin district. And since it was asked more than 10 days ago, and you responded last Friday for some of the reasons why repairs were suspended and what happened afterwards, I just want to specify the following. The construction of the road "Kula" is long awaited. The construction of the road "Kula" is long awaited. The construction of the road "Kula" "Gramada" in the municipalities of Vidin and Dimovo, as well as the repair of the road "Vidin" "Kula" is fucking the border with Serbia. This is an international entrance road, entry into the European Union and entry into Bulgaria. He's in a terrible state. For many years projects and documentation were made so that he could be rehabilitated this time and the main repair was made. Thus for me and for all residents of Vidin district, in general in the Northwest, and I think that for all Bulgarian citizens who want to travel on these roads to feel good and as in Europe, it is extremely important that the activities continue. My specific questions are: I am skipping the first one because you gave an answer last week and it has already become clear about the letter of the head of API, my question is: when will these repair activities be restored so as to achieve a complete major repair, especially for the road Vidin.Kula.Kurska is fucking the border with the Republic of Serbia; when will each of these projects be completed; and I would ask you to provide me with, of course, you don't need to read it, the full programme of the Road Infrastructure Agency for 2021 for the territory of Vidin district? And here I would ask you not to speculate on the subject of a public procurement contract and overpaid projects of a certain value...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u325	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u326	...because it is not correct because you know that contracts are framework contracts, single prices are submitted and additional ongoing repairs and maintenance activities are awarded where necessary. It's a practice that's been more than 20 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u328	The ugly notions of leaving them somewhere else. I want a specific answer that the citizens of Vidin region benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u329	Minister Komitova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u330	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Kirova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unfortunately, today I have not prepared a written answer to the question, because last time this was perceived as a very strange practice. I can provide you with the contract that serves Vidin Municipality. He's not a framework contract. You're saying false things right now, and it's worth exactly what it is. I can tell you which company is worth 17 million. 160,000. BGN, were negotiated for 30 million and separate municipality Vidin has 53 million financing of landslides, other strengthening activities and so on. I'm not making any suggestions. I can give you the contract and you can rule. A contract that's 17 million years old, how it gets to be 30, because we have far more drastic cases. In Vidin is not the worst situation. On the road in Vidin we have made a very detailed reference, but I will answer you for the two roads you ask for. The first one is Vidin Since I have a lot of positions, it's 27 kilometers. The site is scheduled to end in November 2021. Its value is almost 10 million with VAT. They are completed: excavation; cold milling of asphalt concrete flooring; machine embankment; alignment and filling of banquets; laid bitumenized stone; mending of single holes; deformations; damaged areas and so on. We have a partial pavement with a dense asphalt mixture. About the next time..Kula. Gramada, Here is preventive repair of another time with approximately the same length.............................................................................................. The expected deadline for completion of this road is the end of October 2021. Its value is around 16 million with VAT. The site was carried out: cutting of shrubs, forest; damaged existing pavement; excavation; laying of crushed stone; cold cutting and disassembly and mounting of concrete curbs. So it is expected to be completed this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u331	Thank you, Minister Komitova. For a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u332	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Comitova. I guess you misunderstand me. You mentioned some contracts and some overvalued values that I have absolutely no idea what this is about and do not refer to the specific question and specific objects. I spoke to you specifically about the road "Kula Gramada" and the road "Vidin" "Kula" "Truska fucks the border of Serbia," so there it is clear how they are assigned and what is the expectation. Subjects were stopped when I asked you the question. I really hope that they will be completed within the set deadlines, which are around November, as far as I understand it, 2021 and I would be grateful if you would provide me with the API Road Programme for 2021. I am not convinced that Vidin District is not in the worst situation. It all depends on which roads we travel and where we go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u333	Mrs. Komitova, for the back, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u334	Mrs. Kirova, you said, first of all, that the contract is framework, that you know it, and then you said you didn't know what it was, but I'm going to send it to you personally to see it, because last Friday I showed a lot of such contracts. The same applies to Vidin district. The association that works there is called DZD Vidin 2019. There are four companies in it: PST Group, PST Vidin, Pst, Pst, Pst, Pst, Sofia, Ltd. This contract was concluded on 1 July 2020. It expires on 30 June 2025 and is worth 17 million and deals with all current repairs and maintenance in Vidin district. On this issue, I simply do not want any further comment. I'll introduce you to this contract. I'm not making any suggestions. This is a serious problem the state, the National Assembly and all the participants must deal with. This isn't an excuse to just argue here. That was your first question. There was one more question about the API program. Here I am asked one mega.. The program of API, all objects, deadlines, contracts, started, finished and so on and so forth. Such a programme for 2021 would say, honourable Members, I first thought that this was a spelling error, as this API programme, I thought it was 2022, which should be made at the end of this year after voting on the API budget, but it turned out to be 2021. Such a programme has not been made. It should have been made last year after the determination of the funds allocated to the API under the budget. In it, however, last time we clarified enough, a budget of API "382 million" for 2021, spent until 30 April and overcharged for a billion and a half of an ongoing road repair and maintenance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u335	Thank you. And one last question to Minister Komitova. A question from Stefan Apostolov about construction of a bridge on road 11-19 near Simitli. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In January of this year, your ministry of regional development and public works issued a permit for a site: "M.Stroma" 3.1 "Blagoevgrad," subject: Construction of a bridge over the Struma river at the site of an existing one, at km 0+120.70 on road II-19, with the aim of providing transport access in the future construction of "M.Struma". The same building permit was promulgated in the Official Gazette, No. 4 of 15 January 2021 and as early as January has entered into force. This enables the Road Infrastructure Agency to begin the implementation of the site, which is of great importance for the residents of Simitli municipality, both for the residents of the region and for the business in Simitli municipality. In view of the above and in relation to the exceptional necessity and importance of Simitli City of the construction in question described above, please reply to the following: what is the reason why, in the case of all the necessary documents, contracts with contractor and supervision, an investment project agreed with all the necessary institutions, duly issued and entered into force a building permit issued by a competent authority, concerted safety and health plans and for the management of construction waste from Simitli Municipality, for more than 5 months not to start real construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u337	Thank you. Mrs. Comitova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u338	Mr. Apostolov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Here Mr. Apostolov told the story of this bridge at Simitli. With us he has the code title: II-19. This bridge really has a construction permit, entered into force on 30 January this year, but then in Simitli municipality, several additional plans had to be approved. This is the Safety and Health Plan and the Construction Waste Management Plan, which, however, are presented in the API on 8 June 2021. I don't know what happened at City Hall. I'm explaining it to myself with the hole in time that's always about choices, I have no other explanation. From 8 June onwards, the contractor was working on the construction site, the transfer of a construction line and the level of construction, and before doing this, was waiting until 14 June 2021 for the contractor to present compulsory insurance with the contractor and employee under art. 223, para. 2 from ZUT, so the construction of the bridge over the Struma river will be financed by the state budget. It is included as part of the site III-2 Krupnik "Kresna," but for which no European funding is provided, and we assume that it will start as a construction at any moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u339	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. Mr. Apostolov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u340	Mrs. Komitova, as far as I am aware, the funding is under the Operational Programme on Transport and even there we may need to return funds. Two months since you say how Simitli Municipality has returned the coordination of these projects, no longer works. We're missing summer low water. If we continue at the same rate of operation, this bridge may begin the next programming period We all know the case of the bridge in Petrich in Ribnik, then, thank God, it didn't come to an accident, but it might come to us, and then I don't know who will be responsible for the whole delay. So, please, once again, hurry up a little bit more, let's not miss the summer low water, let's not get into any trouble during this time, because the residents of Simitli municipality, to tell you, are quite worried about what is happening right now, are ready to protest, at the moment we are barely holding them back. If you think a protest will boost the bridge, don't worry, this thing will happen. We'll close 79 if necessary, and we'll close it not like the Eagle Bridge with 10 tents, but we'll close it with three or four or five thousand tents, you know! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u341	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Mrs. Komitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u342	Thank you very much for another protest you're planning to organize for me. I'm a few days minister of the service, and you've been able to organize a lot of protests for me. But in this case I'll tell you this: you've organized me a showroom of expensive construction equipment, three times the Chamber of Builders wants my resignation, the judges have confronted me, and everyone in organizations and so on, so thank you for what you thought you were going to do. What I'm going to ask you as a question is: the caretaker government doesn't have three months what to do first? But I'm going to ask you about the hole in this procedure from April 13th....... approved POS in Simitli Municipality................................................................................................................................................................... Sixty days there is a hole to move a document called POSD from Simitli Municipality to the Road Infrastructure Agency. [[Applause from ICN, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. The hearing of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works ended with this issue. We are now going to the hearing of Minister of Service Yanaki Stoilov. There is a question from the National Representative Nikolay Dimitrov Hadjigenov concerning the information available in the ministry, Mr. Stoilov, in the case of the diploma and legal capacity of Mr. Ivan Stoimenov Geshev. You have the floor, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of ministers of the service, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Given the time ahead, I will be extremely short to give Minister Stoilov the opportunity to respond in detail. Mr. Minister, the questions have been sent in writing, and I suppose I don't have to objectify them unnecessaryly in the courtroom... [[Radio, lines.]] Excuse me, lapsus, yes, to me everything is still a courtroom, even the parliamentary room. Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The public should know whether Prosecutor General Ivan Stoimenov Geshev can take any legal position at all. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u345	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u346	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Mr. Hadjigenov, I hope this room won't become a convention. [[Elevator bell dings]] To perform all the functions in the management and I will stick to the information I have. I would like to welcome the representatives of the new parliamentary groups, which I see are represented in a significant composition at the very end of the plenary sitting in parliamentary control. I hope you'll allow me to go a little bit beyond the time set for my first action in the answer, and we'll probably make up for it with the back that I'm going to do. In the order of Mr. Hadjigenov's questions, I am telling you the following: In the Ministry of Justice, information is available only in relation to the internship and respectively a theoretical practical examination for the acquisition of legal capacity. According to a protocol of 23 February 1996 of the Committee for the Exam for the Acquirement of Law, Ivan Stoimenov Geshev passed the exam with an assessment............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The certificate is entered in the Register of issued legal certificates maintained by the Ministry of Justice. The period of storage of documents relating to information on the conduct of the legal examination is three years, and the period for storing the records with lists of interns' interns' examinations is five years, so to date they are not stored, only remains the information in the Register of Certificates that I quoted to you. Further in the order of the questions. With § 5, para. 1 of the Law on the Ministry of Interior, promulgated in 1991, was repealed Decree No 24-15 of 1987 for the transformation of the Higher Special School of Georgy Dimitrov at the Ministry of Interior at the Higher Institute of Georgi Dimitrov at the same ministry. Further, under the Law, it becomes its transformation into the Supreme Institute for the Training of Officers and Research for the needs of the Ministry of Interior. In para. 2 of this § 5 is provided that the students adopted pursuant to the repealed decree retain the right to acquire the civil specialty of law, the qualification of the cursor or the specialty of the civil service. This is the other civic direction, which is also popular. Therefore, the Law provided for the possibility of the cases to be completed, i.e. those who started their training under the repealed decree of the State Council with a period of training of five years and who studied all the legal disciplines introduced under the curriculum of the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Regarding the question of Mr. Geshev's period of training. It is apparent from the diploma published in the public domain that the diploma was received in 1989 and graduated in 1994, i.e. it has passed the five-year course of training for which, as a welded situation, the rights that existed up to that time were given the opportunity to enjoy. Further, Decree No 86 of the Council of Ministers of 1992 regulates the situation of persons who are already trained for four years and under what conditions and by what permission they may want to be acknowledged to them this education, but this hypothesis I think I do not need to clarify in more detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u347	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u348	And just a little while longer, Madam President. I told you I'd be very brief later. As stated, Ivan Geshev was a student at VIPOND Ministry of Interior between 1989 and 1994 in accordance with the cited paragraph. After graduation this is the next important part of the question of Mr. Hadjigenov and last, Ivan Geshev could have started work on a work contract in Sofia Investigation Service as an assistant investigator according to art. 8a, hence with No 11-38 of 1991 for the creation of a single investigative apparatus at the Ministry of Interior. The existing regulation then allowed the possibility of persons working in the National Investigation Service system, with the permission of the Director of the Office, to pass their one-year service as judicial candidates without ending their employment. This is the information I provide to your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u349	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Hadjigenov? You don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u350	I'm just gonna take advantage of it. I'm just gonna fill it in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u351	Of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u352	As you probably know, Mr. Hadzhigenov, there are other documents concerning the completed education and diploma of Mr. Ivan Geshev, but they can now be requested by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Education and Science. I take this opportunity to inform you of the way legal capacity is acquired and about the legal framework in this transitional period, how specialized education at the Institute of the Ministry of Interior is compatible with the acquisition of a civil specialty in the field of law, including an equivalent to today's Master's degree. And finally, these issues I think are getting their clarification, but the bigger issues concern the prosecution's activities and its leadership, and I think that that's where the attention should be focused. That is, the problems with the qualification of lawyers in general can be discussed, including the legal framework of legal education in Bulgaria, but I believe that the bigger issues are of a different nature and this is the main task of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u353	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov, for your comprehensive response. With this issue we have concluded the hearing of the Minister of Justice Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. Mr. Velislav Minekov was asked about the Minister of Culture. The issue is from the MP Lyubomir Karimanski on the Rules for Implementation of the Law on the Film Industry. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u354	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I will try to be brief and hope that my question, although last for today's sitting, will not be the last most important one. The amendments to the Film Industry Act were tabled on 27 November 2020 at the 44th National Assembly, bypassing the State Budget Act and with a breach of public consultation procedure. A day earlier, the National Assembly adopted a framework for financing Bulgarian cinema of 16 million. lv. for project financing in the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed amendments to the Film Industry Act foresee an increase in the financing of the film industry by 25 million. BGN, which are not listed in Programme 4 "Film Art" in the budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2021. With a scheme to introduce financial incentives of 15 million is mainly supported by an American company, which has been lobbying for more than 10 years for the introduction of this instrument. We all know who this company is. In the adopted amendments to the Law on the Film Industry there is no economic, financial argumentation whatsoever, there is a lack of the cost-benefit analysis mentioned by me on several occasions for the need to introduce financial incentives. According to the changes in the Law on the Film Industry, which were adopted on 2 March 2021, we have several things that are extremely important, and one of them is that the whole film guild in Bulgaria is protesting the adoption of this law and wants in the course of the public discussion to bring enough changes precisely to the Rules for Implementation of the Law on the Film Industry. In this regard, I have the following questions: First, what imposes such a rapid adoption of the Rules for Implementation of the Law on the Film Industry by the caretaker government despite the many problematic texts that there are, and frankly lobbyist intentions and plays, which received repeated criticism from the Ministry of Finance with the former Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev and with the current Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev? How will the additional 25 million be guaranteed? lv. for 2020 in Programme 4 "Film Art" of the Ministry of Culture? How will the appropriate efficient and efficient spending of public finances for financial incentives and subsequent control be ensured, especially when it comes to a single US company that is lobbied for? What is the economic analysis costs supposed by the introduction of financial incentives for foreign productions in Bulgaria in the presence of a tax rate for tax total income and corporate tax of 10%? I ask that specific numbers be given to me and the MPs and calculations for at least a three-year period to see what effect these tax incentives have on me and what effect this will have on this company in particular...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u355	Mr. Karimansky, you've exceeded too much time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u356	Last question: will the legal period for public consultation of 30 days be respected of the successive amendments to the Rules for Implementation of the Law on the Film Industry, uploaded on 23 July 2020? It's not August 23rd yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u357	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u358	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Karimanski, in relation to the questions you have asked, please note the following: pursuant to § 40, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Film Industry The Rules on Law Enforcement must be brought into line and adopted within 3 months of the entry into force of the Law. The Law was promulgated on 2 March 2021 and entered into force three days after the promulgation of 6 March. It is apparent that the deadline for the adoption of the Rules of Law expired on 6 June, which is why it cannot be claimed that it was quickly adopted by the caretaker government. The rules were adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 July, although the one-month public consultation period expired as early as 28 May. In this regard, I would like to say that immediately after taking office, I met with the representatives of the film community to clarify the situation before I submitted the draft rules to the Council of Ministers. After the many conversations I held, it became clear that since the beginning of the year the activity of the National Film Centre has been blocked and practically no film projects can be financed. The reason is that the previous administration failed to send a notification to the European Commission of an extension after 31 December 2020 of the implementation of the State aid schemes of the Bulgarian film production under the old law. In the crisis situation that I found, the only way to resume the work of the Film Centre was to adopt the Rules and prevent another zero year for cinema. Here I must add that before the adoption by the Council of Ministers, the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure passed public consultation and all coordination procedures with the portfolio ministries, including with the Ministry of Finance, and appropriate adjustments were made. However, let us not forget that the lobbying provisions in the Law, which you claim, cannot be corrected by the Rules of Procedure. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Finance for the additional 25 million. lv. to provide funding for 2021 are provided for in the state budget and will be allocated to the Ministry of Culture after the entry into force of the Rules on Law Enforcement. Control of how funds are allocated must be exercised, first of all, by the National Film Centre as a body entrusted with the financing under the LFI. This control must not only be ex post but also preventive and ongoing control, for which the committees are set up, including the Financial Commission. Regarding the issue of economic analysis, the benefits should have been answered at the Forty-fourth National Assembly in the adoption of the changes in the LEFs with which the financial incentives scheme was introduced. What were the considerations of the MPs from the previous parliament with almost complete unanimity to accept these changes could not answer. The draft Decree of the Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the Rules for Implementation of the Film Industry Act was published on the website of the Ministry of Culture for Public Discussion on 28 April 2021. The many proposals and inquiries submitted during the period of public consultation and after that date were examined in the period May "June 2021" and on 14 June 2021 started a procedure under art. 27 of the Law on State aid for coordination of the draft decree with the Minister of Finance and procedure under art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration for coordination with the other ministries. The agreed procedures were concluded on 23 July 2021, with an approved financial justification and a positive opinion given by the Minister of Finance accordingly. On the same date the project was submitted to the Council of Ministers. The draft decree of the Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Film Industry was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u359	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. Mr. Karimansky, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u360	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I will always want the order of coordination: first to coordinate this project with the Ministry of Finance as recorded. And if it was agreed with the Ministry of Finance on 23 July 2021, how has the other coordination period expired, which should be a public consultation with all interested parties? I don't understand how this happened.! Or do we first have coordination by the Ministry of Finance and then is presented to the public according to this coordination by the Ministry of Finance, or did you first consult all interested parties and then coordinate it with the Ministry of Finance? At least that doesn't make sense to me. And the other thing I would like to ask: how, when the Rules of Procedure of the National Film Centre have not been adopted, do you assign this National Film Centre to coordinate and control the implementation of the Rules of Film Industry? Something is not clear in my opinion and please clarify: how is it that when we do not have Rules of Procedure and Rules of the National Film Centre as a whole under the new law this National Film Centre controls and coordinates all this activity? I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u361	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u362	Mr. Karimanski, look now how many people are interested in your question, the fate of Bulgarian cinema. Thank God we gave the green light. Your colleagues from GERB were asking the same question. You have to unite so I don't answer one or the other on Fridays. It's pretty much the same question. The fact is, in my opinion, this law is not perfect. The fact is not only in my opinion that these rules are not perfect, but we have a path. They can go down this path, there are obstacles on it. There will be plenty of time to clear the obstacles and turn the path into a highway. I'm sure of it. But to stop at this very moment, for another period of time, this would have been a huge damage to the cinema. And this was wished by your colleagues from this country, who are currently not here. I couldn't let that happen. Thank God, we've agreed everything with the Ministry of Finance. And one more thing. To tell you the truth, I don't think anyone understands what you asked me here in this room. I don't think anyone understands what I also answered here in this room. Things are very specific, and if we could both do them together, that would be great. Only with questions that no one understands, it won't work. It has to be in collaboration with our mutual efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-06.u363	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. That concludes parliamentary control for today. All extended time is exhausted. The next plenary session " 11 August 2021," 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
