ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the draft work programme of the National Assembly for 8 September 2021: "1." Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Swiss Federal Polytechnic Institute in Lausanne, Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 August 2021 2. Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and AstraZeneca, and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 27 August 2021 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the resale of doses of vaccines to Moderna Switzerland GMBH against COVID-19. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 September 2021 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of the vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and of the Agreement on donation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 September 2021 5. Hearing of the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency Alexander Dunchev on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Management of Hunting Farms, Hunting Bases and the Treaties on the Management of Hunting Territories in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer supplier Borislav Sandov, 17 August 2021 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2021. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 30 July 2021. Adopted at first vote on 26 August 2021. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 7. Second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 30 July 2021. Adopted in first vote on 26 August 2021. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 August 2021. Adopted at first vote on 27 August 2021. Point 1 for Friday 10 September 2021 9. Hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the procedures, the amount and method of financing of the project for the extension of the water ducts in Varna Lake, including the respective actions of the State-owned enterprise Importers... Antoaneta Tsoneva and Ivaylo Mirchev, 24 August 2021 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 10. Hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the designated route for the construction of a high-speed railway highway Sofia, Pernik via Gorna Banya, Knyazhevo, Vladaya, Dragichevo for freight and passenger transport and the concerns of residents related to transit traffic, noise pollution and the removal of railway stations. Importers suppose Dimitar Delchev, Julian Nenchev and Galina Tavalitsa, 7 September 2021. 11. Hearing of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and of the Minister of Finance on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the legality of the contracts concluded by the National Assembly, amounting to 3.1 billion. lv. for the construction of the highway. "Hemus" and the road "Vidin" "Botevgrad" and the strengthening of 84 landslides, the advance funds paid under them and the legal opportunities for completion of the sites. Importer Maya Manolova, 7 September 2021 Please, voting mode. Vote 196 MPs: 154 against 17, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. There's been a proposal for inclusion on the agenda. On the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the subsun to hold a hearing of Yordanka Fandakova Mayor of Sofia Municipality, Elen Gerdjikov, Chairman of the Sofia Municipal Council, and Alexander Alexandrov Executive Director of the Sofia Municipality on the financial situation of the Sofia Municipality and the actions taken by the Society and Sofia Municipality as a principal for providing investments for the implementation of the emission limit values for nitrogen oxides according to the application of the standards of the European Commission of 2017 and the decision of the Executive Environment Agency to refuse a derogation of the Sofia Transport Agency on emissions of nitrogen oxides. Importers "Maya Manolova and Arman Babikian, 7 September 2021 Please imagine very briefly the proposal, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not know why for another week the majority in this Parliament, and in particular the parliamentary group of GERB, supported obviously also by the parliamentary groups of IHN and the DPS, remove Yordanka Fandakova, who is the principal of the capitalist Toplofication, from the agenda. I really do not understand, since in the original version of the Program, the hearing of Fandakova and the chief of the "Toplofication" took into account the severe situation in which the Company is located, given that its complex permit contains parameters that it does not meet. It will work illegally from 1 October. It is in debt to the extent that it is before actual bankruptcy, and it is to the extent that it is in debt to the extent that it is before actual bankruptcy, and it is to the extent that it is to the extent that it is in debt to which it is in debt, it is to the extent that it is in debt, and it is to the extent that it is in debt, it is to the extent that it is in debt, and it is to the extent that it is in default, it All these issues against the backdrop of hypocrisy that we are interested in the incomes of Bulgarian citizens....................................................................................... are not interested in the group of GERB, what is happening in Sofia. I understand that the objection to listen to the director of the capitalist Toplofication and Yordanka Fandakova comes from the parliamentary group of GERB. We will now also see on the vote who is really interested in the steam bills in the capital, in the financial situation of the "Topplofication" and in the quality of the air. It is not normal for the principal of this company to desert from the problems of the capitalists, it is not normal Fandakova, hidden from the group of GERB, to run away from an answer to the capitalists. What's happening to the Toplofication? What are the actions of Sofia Municipality? Because she's responsible, she's the principal, and stop hiding her. I also appeal to the other MPs. He must come here and answer questions in front of the entire Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] The proposals are not discussed, Mr. Bikov, but voted directly. Please, voting mode. Vote 206 MPs: 142, against 58, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Let's start with: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE SWITZERLAND FEDERAL TECHNOLOGIC INSTITUTE IN CURICH, THE SWITZERLAND FEDERAL POLICY INSTITUTE IN LOZANA, THE SOPHIAN UNIVERSITY. CLIMENT OF THE OCHRIDIANS AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Swiss Federal Polytechnic Institute in Lausanne, the Sofia University of St. Kliment Ohridski and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 46-102-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. At its regular meeting held on 2 September 2021, the Education and Science Committee examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Swiss Federal Polytechnic Institute in Lausanne, Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 46-102-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. The meeting was attended by Professor Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science, and Professor Anastas Gerdjikov, Rector of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Minister Nikolay Denkov. The proposed ratification of the Agreement aims to set out the basic principles of the functioning of the Institute for Computer Technology Research in the structure of the Sofia University and the commitments of the countries, as the Institute is planned to receive mentoring on its development by representatives of the two Swiss Institutes working on established worldwide innovative practices and models. The Institute for Computer Technology Research in the Structure of Sofia University is included in the National roadmap for scientific infrastructure and the financing of its activities is planned to be at the expense of the funds for science in the state budget. The basis for ratification of the Agreement by the National Assembly is art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 15, para. 1 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Professor Anastas Gerdzhikov emphasized that Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski is given the opportunity to use the experience of leading world leaders in the study of artificial intelligence. Cooperation with the two Swiss institutions, which usually do not work this way, is an expression of their high appreciation for their Bulgarian colleagues. The discussion included MPs Krasimir Valchev, Irena Anastasova, Mukaddes Nalbant and Andrei Chorbanov. They united around the opinion on the importance of the Agreement, which is the subject of the bill under discussion. It introduces a very useful form of integration for Bulgarian scientists and opens up the prospect that our country will be an integral part of the development of artificial intelligence. After a 18-vote vote, the Committee on Education and Science unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Swiss Federal Polytechnic Institute in Lausanne, the Sofia University of Sv. Kliment Ohridski and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 46-102-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. I ask the Committee on Budget and Finance to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u6	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Swiss Federal Polytechnic Institute in Lausanne, Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 46-102-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. At a meeting held on 2 September 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Education and Science: Prof. Genka Petrova-Tashkova, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Milena Damyanova, Director of the Department of Science, Mrs. Sonya Krastanova, Director of the Directorate of Finance. Prof. Dr. Vasil Marinov, Vice Rector. The bill was presented by Prof. Genka Petrova-Tashkova Deputy Minister of Education and Science. Professor Tashkova said that the Bulgarian state has been involved in the preparation of the Agreement since three years ago. Several state acts have been implemented so far, long-term cooperation agreements between the Bulgarian and the Swiss state have been signed, as well as between two of the largest technology institutes in Switzerland, which are number two in the field of IT technology, and based on these decisions the Sofia University has also established the Institute for Computer Technology Research. The legislative reason for ratifying this agreement is that the Bulgarian state has made a long-term financial commitment for 10 years, with the scientific basis undisputed. According to the ambitious programme, this institute will put Bulgaria in the XXII century. The Agreement aims to set out the basic principles of the functioning of the Institute and the commitments of the Parties, as the Institute is planned to receive mentoring for its development by representatives of the two Swiss institutions working on established worldwide innovative practices and models, including with regard to the training of PhD students, career development and habilitation, etc. The funding of the activities of the Institute for Research in Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence in the field of Computer Technology in the structure of Sofia University until 2030 amounts to a total of 166 million. 451,000. lv. and will be at the expense of the planned funds for science in the state budget, intended to implement the National roadmap for scientific infrastructure. The financial benefits we expect from its creation in the field of IT technology are extremely high and will exceed the investment by the Bulgarian state. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee summarized that this is a very well prepared and complete bill with all the necessary documents as required for such, personally admires the financial justification that has been made and believes it should be supported. The International Treaty is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion of the Draft was held, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 14 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Swiss Federal Polytech Institute in Lausanne, Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 46-102-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! This project is one of the most essential, most meaningful things that perhaps this National Assembly can accept. With its acceptance Bulgaria has the chance to be on the map of the development of artificial intelligence, to have a school for development of artificial intelligence. Our chance of this happening is that one of the best European scientists, perhaps world, is Bulgarian. He wants to work in Bulgaria with a team of colleagues who are not Bulgarians, wants to make a school by training Ph.D. students. He will train 50 Ph.D. students, they will train another 50 students and this way an artificial intelligence development school will be established. We want or we do not want, artificial intelligence is what will perhaps best determine future development, and a division of the world into developed and developing countries, and we have the chance to be on the side of developed countries. Because these two higher schools, which are partners, I guess you know, are the two most highly rated continental-European higher schools, only the Swiss Institute of Technology, I think there are 21 Nobel laureates, often in the top 10 rating rankings. So we can believe that this is a chance for Bulgaria to be on the map of artificial intelligence development. The agreement is necessary in order to guarantee the Swiss partners funding, our commitment and I am personally pleased that it finds its place on the agenda and in this life of this National Assembly, and I call on everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u9	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Of course, we share the assessment that this is one of the investments Bulgaria will make, which has an extremely high return. There's good news and bad news to start with bad news. The bad news is that in the last ranking in the first 2000 universities around the world there is no Bulgarian university. Last year exactly Sofia University was inside this ranking, but from this year it is no longer. It will take many years to make up for the mistakes Bulgaria has made for decades to fall behind our universities due to underfinancing and other problems, with their management and with the mechanisms of competition among the academic staff. Therefore, honourable Members, it is a very reasonable step to finance leading faculties, departments and Bulgarian universities that will skip the transition period and participate in research programmes of leading universities around the world. And this contract of Bulgaria with Switzerland and leading Swiss universities and research centers is an outstanding example. Two or three years ago, I think I introduced the Budget Committee to what I saw at the London Economic School, where neighbouring Greece has made an economic centre -- Elada -- funded by the Greek government. The centre is in a leading economic institution and not only in the world. There specialize in PhD students, professors, docs, doing research and Greece has stepped on the field of the first five universities in the world in the field of economics, and not only political analyses. And that is why, using this case, by hotly supporting what is being proposed, we will propose that in the coming years in the Fund of the Ministry of Education a special feather be formed to provide funds to leading Bulgarian institutions to implement such joint programs, which will help to enter Bulgarian universities in the first 2000 and then in the first 1000 in the world. So let's support this nice undertaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. For a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Gechev, first of all, without nagging at all the rankings that came out shows that in the first 1200 universities we do not have an idea a little better, but I fully agree with what you say. There is such a people that will, of course, support this project.......................................................................................... Again, as previous colleagues have mentioned, such collaborations are extremely important for us to reach a high level of research and development. I have said this many times, and now I will bruise it: we have no more than 0,8 "0.9% of GDP, which is in the field of research and development, so we really support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u13	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. A hole? Any other speeches? I can't see. We close the debate and move on to the first vote of the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Swiss Federal Polytechnic Institute in Lausanne, Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria. Vote 186 MPs: for 186, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u14	Madam President, colleagues! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill be subject to a second vote in today's sitting, because no proposals for amendments or additions have been made during the discussion. The bill is for ratification of an international treaty whose text according to art. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. Vote 181 MPs: for 181, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Anastasova, please report the bill to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u16	Thank you, Madam President. LAW on the ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Swiss Federal Polytechnic Institute in Lausanne, the Sofia University of Sv. Kliment Ohridski and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria A single member. He ratified the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Swiss Federal Polytechnic Institute in Lausanne, Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u17	Thank you. I put to the second vote the so-called ratification bill. They voted 170 MPs: for 170, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item two on the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFITING OF THE TRISTAL AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF VACSITIONS AGAINST COVID-19, PRODUCED BY THE ASTRAZENEC, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, BOSN AND HERZOVINA AND ASTRAZENICA AND THE TWISE AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF VACINS AGAINST COVID-19, PROCED BY THE ASTRAZENEKA, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND BOSS AND HERZENIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 27 August 2021. Please report from the Health Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the Donation of Vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and AstraZeneca, and the Bilateral Agreement on the Donation of Vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 46-102-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2021. At its extraordinary meeting held on 7 September 2021, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and AstraZeneca and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID 19, produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 46-102-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2021. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health, Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, who presented the Bill and the reasons for it. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the Agreement by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines (supplied by Decision No 491 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 and ratified by the Law on the ratification of the Agreement by which the European Commission is empowered to propose vaccines to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary arrangements for the purchase of vaccines (supplied by Decision No 491 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 and ratified by the Law on the ratification of the Agreement, which the European Commission is empowered to offer to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines (supplied by the Council of Ministers of 2020) with their producers in order to obtain vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19 (en. 71 from 2020) . The order of Art. 8.3, point (b) of the preliminary agreement concluded between the European Commission and AstraZeneca, provides that, in the event of an excess of doses of vaccines, participating Member States may grant them to countries with low or medium-sized income or public institutions and donate or resell, without profit, such doses to other European countries which agree to be bound by the terms of the Agreement applicable to a participating Member State. According to a report by the Chief State Health Inspector of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning the Agreement concluded by the European Commission and the quantities of vaccines established on quota basis for each Member State that exceed the quantities actually required, a number of Member States have taken action on donations of surplus quantities to third countries to prevent, on the one hand, the destruction of pandemic vaccine due to failure and, on the other hand, to assist in ensuring equal access worldwide to vaccines against the new coronavirus. The report states that 300 000 doses of Vaxzevria vaccine and 100 000 doses of Comirnatti vaccine are available at the warehouse of Bul Bio In accordance with Decision No 574 of the Council of Ministers of 3 August 2021, the proposed ratification agreements are signed by the Parties participating in them in accordance with the applicable requirements and procedures. The draft agreements provide for a donation of 50,000 doses of Vaxzervria vaccine with a shelf life of 30 September 2021 and the amount proposed for donation is worth 175 000 BGN. The reason for the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and AstraZeneka and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina is art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill provides for, on the basis of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the ratified agreements should not be published in the State Gazette due to the confidentiality requirements laid down in them, as well as in the Agreement concluded between the European Commission and the AstraZeneca. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the Committee on Health shall propose to the National Assembly, on the basis of the first vote, the Draft for the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and AstraZeneca and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 46-102-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. There is no report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take a stand first, I would like to say that my position on both this and the following two ratifications is not some kind of obstruction of donations to these countries, as well as yesterday's donation to Bhutan, but is a problem with the procedure under which it is currently taking place. I start at the beginning that the three ratifications that have been presented today are viewed at a meeting of the Committee on Health yesterday at 10:00 p.m. at an extraordinary meeting. There is no harm, but, as far as I understand from Commissioners, the treaty itself, which is being offered to us for ratification, has not been provided as is not available on the website of the National Assembly. We are actually looking at a ratification treaty that no one in this room has read. Madam President, if you've seen it, at least have one person who's read the contract will be fine. However, given that there is no clarity as to what exactly is contained, what are the clauses of these treaties, it is becoming interesting why we are being offered such a quick vote at all, especially when there is no report and it is not addressed by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Yesterday I made the note that the ratification treaties are generally provided for consideration by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Perhaps all these questions would have been answered in the Commission and not in the House, but otherwise the distribution is different. The main issue here is, by the way, if you open the decision of the Council of Ministers, you will see by which members of the Constitution this treaty is proposed to be ratified by the National Assembly, namely art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and so on. 7, if you open the Constitution and read who these two Articles are.................................................................................................... 85, p. 5 states: "The state's involvement in arbitration or judicial settlement of international disputes is anticipated. So, what arbitration settlement on a donation contract?! It doesn't make sense! Point 7 concerns the operation of a law or requires measures of a legislative nature for their implementation. So, what does it have to do with a donation contract or a sale contract? That is, the very members of the Constitution, on which the government proposes to Parliament that we ratify this donation contract, have nothing to do with a donation contract. If anyone can explain it to me why I regret that there is no representative of the Council of Ministers to say, but in my opinion, I would also like to hear the opinion of lawyers here, whether the donation contract or the next sale contract can be ratified by the National Assembly on the basis of a member for arbitration disputes in which Bulgaria is a party? I have not heard of an arbitration dispute on the subject with the donation of vaccines from Bulgaria to Bosnia and Herzegovina in this case or concerning the Bulgarian legislation or amending the Bulgarian legislation thanks to this ratification. So I don't see the logic at all for this ratification to happen under this article. And the secrecy and speed itself are already raising a lot of doubts that the work is starting to smell. Because given that no one has seen the contracts, there is a very strange ratification mechanism available, i.e. weird articles of the Constitution that do not have tillage on the subject, things are starting to look really suspicious. And in this regard, I would ask the people's representation to postpone ratification, at least until a representative of the Council of Ministers comes to explain to us why this approach is chosen, to explain to us why the contracts should not be published and explained to us, well, if they should not be published in the Official Journal, at least why they were not granted to the National Assembly or members of the Health Commission when they were looking at the Bill? I regret that the Legal Committee did not really consider it at its own meeting, because perhaps all these questions would have been answered. In this regard, I am making my statement that I will make a proposal between the readings art. 2 of the bill to be dropped and at least someone to see these contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Kirilov, come in. For a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u22	Yeah, about the contract. What I can say is that at the first ratification yesterday there was a confidentiality clause and four people from the Commission did not want to sign the declaration. There is also a similar clause in this contract that we are considering. The contract is available and anyone who wishes could have received the contract after signing the declaration. There were no willing to sign it and therefore the contract is not read, that is, the confidentiality status and the reading of the contract and its clauses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there another line? No. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, a confidentiality clause is a new concept in the Rules of the National Assembly. There are clear documents here, and there are documents with classified content with which documents with classified content the MPs can be familiar with in the proper order. It is not the first time that contracts with trade secrets with similar content have been made available to the National Assembly and such clauses have never been referred to at all, are simply viewed, or are considered in closed session. We had many such cases, even two weeks ago, in the Committee on Revision of Mrs. Manolova, when from..Bulgartransgaz............................. had contracts with trade secrets about them, but they were provided to all MPs without signing any additional clauses that they would not disclose them and so on. In the end, there's order. This is some new order I've seen for the first time in years.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u26	Dear Madam Presidential, honourable gentlemen Vice-Presidents! Dear Minister Katsarov, for the sake of Mr. Gazhev, you have appeared. It has already started that those who are members of the Health Commission and who have a real relationship to the problem will have more activity for some of our colleagues. The only goal is to postpone, if possible, ratification, if possible, in any way to create a problem, to see what is going on here, if this job stinks. Now nothing new has been invented, Mr. Gazhev, I address in particular my speech to you if you want, then you can give a personal explanation. It was very precise. Maybe Mr. Kirilov could explain a little indecently in terms of the clauses and so on. It was very precisely explained by the Ministry of Health and by the Commission staff were issued declarations. These are requirements of the European Union, which Bulgaria has agreed to adopt so that all these actions can be carried out on the distribution of vaccines, their purchase and their granting to the Member States of the European Union. I would just like to remind you that, as a member of the External Committee, we were with you members of this committee that there were some summers here in the 44th National Assembly, when the President of the Health Commission called meetings between two holidays in the National Assembly, to make ratifications of contracts which the National Assembly also did not see. How are they done? Why are they done? Why has one vaccine been refused? Then here came some trembling explanations, after a year, what serious considerations the Ministry had, respectively the government. I do not care about the national representation of all these ridiculous things, which three months left Bulgaria without vaccines. That's the result. Everything else is now looking under the ox calf. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, without vaccines Bulgaria was without vaccines. There's nothing to lie to people in here. Without vaccines was Bulgaria - January, February and March, practically without vaccines. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] That's the truth. This is known by the entire Bulgarian nation. All the explanations you're giving here, they don't hold up. So let's not do these circuses here, as they say very often. Here, one to use a colleague from ISN, I want to bruise him, I want to bruise him now, too, to bruise him, let's not do circuses, let's get on with our work. [[Laughter from MP Toshko Yordanov.]] We have much more important bills today to look at, not to look into, that a trouble, a great trouble that has been done here, and bought unbalanced huge quantities of one kind of vaccine, now to load a minister or a government by seeing what's going on here? Nothing's happening. They are trying to save these vaccines and Bulgaria to be correct to countries with low social status. These are the normal actions of every European country. And to seek under the ox may always, but let it not be in the Chamber of the National Assembly and to harm the interests of the nation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u28	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mihailov, you are well aware of the subject, and you are a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, so you could answer the three questions. We should now well accept the arguments that the Agreement eventually comes from the general agreements on the purchase of vaccines prepared by the European Union. As a Member of the Commission, can you explain to me, who has familiarized himself with the documents and familiarized himself with the contracts, why is it offered ratification under a member of arbitration and under a member concerning a change of legislation? These are the articles of the Constitution on which the government proposes this ratification of the National Assembly. I don't understand. If you could explain it to me, I'd be grateful. Secondly, when we were talking about the lack of vaccines, the first quarter of the year, well yesterday it became clear that 900,000 first needles were made during this time, while for the time when there were many vaccines this summer a total of 400,000 first needles were made. So I guess your math doesn't work out right. When you calculate the second needles, suddenly something statistics change. Thirdly, when you say that we are trying to get rid of, so to speak, a kind of vaccine to help socially weak sides, I want to hear this argument how do you give it to the next ratification that is for the vaccines of the Modern, selling the Kingdom of Norway a very socially weak country?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. For the doppelganger, Professor Mihaylov? There are no other lines here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u30	The questions about the members of the relevant law are read by you, as can be assumed, and the lawyers will answer you. They did not give them to the Commission with the desire to deceive them. It's a legal element that you can figure out in some way if you want. And everything else you've spoken from this stand is deeply not true, Mr. Gajev. So by the beginning of April, until the first regular elections were held, i.e. the first months of January, February and March, Bulgaria had exceptional difficulties. After this month of April, huge amounts of vaccines began to arrive and then tomorrow we will talk to you about tomorrow not, but the day after the state budget. Why has your government signed a 47 million-million-dollar contract for vaccines on 9 April when there have been huge amounts of vaccines already in Bulgaria? Then you will have to explain this to us in front of the cameras of the Bulgarian TV station. I'm telling you now. Let's see how you explain it. So don't move from empty to empty, from the sick one to the healthy one, let's vote and get this over with. He's very clear. It is discussed in the Commission, there have been considerations that your colleagues in the Commission from your parliamentary group have said. They didn't get in. It's a vote. Let's see what happens to the vote now. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u31	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. For speech "Georgy Popov."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u32	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! As I said yesterday, I repeat myself, this is, above all, an extremely humane act of donating these 50,000 doses. However, I stress that as of September, the expiration date of 400,000 doses expires. That's where the rush comes from, my fellow Members. We donate 50 thousand doses in this tripartite agreement, and the remaining 350 thousand doses what are we going to do with them? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] What's the rush? That's what the rush is about. That's how I answer to Mr. Gajev. I do not know by which article I do not know in the Constitution to have an intended member for the donation of vaccines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u33	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there a line? None Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote at the first reading of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the Donation of Vaccines against COVID-19 produced by They voted 133 MPs: 103, none against, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u34	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted at the first vote should be reviewed and put to the second vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u36	Madam President, as I said in my speech, I will make myself a proposal between the two readings, so there is no way we can go to one vote and therefore I propose the minimum period of 3 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u37	I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Gajev to reduce the deadline for a proposal between first and second readings every three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u38	What are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u39	We are voting for a reduction in the deadline for making proposals between first and second readings of three days. Vote 131 MPs: 129 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT ON THE SALE OF VACS FROM AND BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE KINGDOM OFNORwegIA ON THE SALE OF DOSES OF MODERNA SWITZERIAND GMBH AGAINST COVID-19. Please, the lead committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u40	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the resale of doses of vaccines to Moderna Switzerland GMBH against COVID-19, No 46 102 6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021. At its extraordinary meeting held on 7 September 2021, the Health Commission examined and discussed a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the resale of doses of vaccines to Moderna Switzerland GmbH against COVID-19, No 46-102-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, who presented the Bill and the reasons for it. He informed the Members of the National Assembly that Decision No 614 of the Council of Ministers of 2021 approved Draft Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the resale of doses of vaccines of Moderna Switzerland GMBH against COVID-19 as the basis for negotiations and was entrusted to the Minister of Health to sign the Agreement on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on condition of subsequent ratification. In accordance with the above Decision, the Minister of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria signed on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria an Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the resale of doses of vaccines to Moderna Switzerland GmbH against COVID-19. The Agreement was signed by the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on 19 August 2021. The agreement provides for the resale of 100 000 doses of the vaccine to Moderna against COVID-19 with an expiration date November "December 2021" and the proposed quantity for resale is at indicative value of BGN 3 780 620. The reason for the ratification of the Agreement is art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill shall be provided on the basis of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the ratified agreements should not be published in the Official Journal of the European Union because of the confidentiality requirements laid down therein, as well as in the Agreement concluded between the European Commission and Moderna. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the resale of doses of vaccines from Moderna Switzerland GmbH against COVID-19, No 46-102-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021, on behalf of the State of Norway on the resale of doses of vaccines from Moderna Switzerland GmbH against COVID-19, No 46-102-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. There is no report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I'm opening the debate. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I want the MPs to be reassured that the delay in ratification by the National Assembly in no way stops the donation or resale procedures that we are voting on today, because in this case the government can bear this responsibility and not seek a way to share it with the people's representation. The fact is that yesterday's ratification was after the deal on the donation of vaccines to Macedonia had already taken place, because it became clear that they had an expiration date of 31 August, that is, another August month this donation had been made. The other thing that is becoming clear is that there are enough vaccines not only from AstraZeneca's, but also from other companies, because we allow ourselves to sell them. There are enough vaccines, what really matters is what is happening at the moment with the vaccination campaign, what is the Minister's intentions and he can use this high tribune to share what his solutions are and what he offers to activate the vaccination campaign among the population, which can help us deal with subsequent waves from the spread of COVID-19. It is very important that we really know that all of us here are responsible for what is happening, and that the national representation in the last days of this National Assembly is dealing with donation, resale of vaccines, in no way motivates people, on the contrary, we should all look right in this direction for some common messages and decisions that only vaccines can rid us of the epidemic. And it is also very important to stress that Bulgaria in this sense was very well benefited by its inclusion in the general order of vaccines. Because I will say that the first vaccines delivered to Bulgaria were at the same time with supplies in all European countries. And then, in the first months of the year, when companies couldn't handle the production of enough vaccines, we guaranteed ourselves, in this way, really, the vaccination of people who were provided as the first line in the vaccination plan, namely the medics, because it was very important to ensure their health and life so that they could be useful to people. And all the speculations that have been realized in time here by this vaccine tribune should stop and we should continue to repeat only one thing: vaccines save lives.. Let's make sure that more Bulgarians are convinced of this and trust the power of science to deal with the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u44	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Daritkova, subsequent ratification is not a problem to carry out after the act itself is carried out, whether on a donation or on sale, whether next week, whether in two months, whether after a year, the issue is to have subsequent ratification. As much as this ratification is necessary, it is now a completely different matter to which we cannot answer, as the treaties give them only for signature, and given that only members, and only one part of the members have signed them, the other MPs have voted on something that they have not seen, and I leave to their conscience. So unlike the last time we talked about the vaccines that... [[Heckling]] I'm sorry if you have something to say here. If so far it was about the donation of vaccines, and it was about a vaccine that does not enjoy such widespread popularity, this is now about a completely different thing about the donation of an IRNC vaccine, rather not about donation, but about sale. To the extent that there is a cashiership to the arbitration disputes to which the Republic of Bulgaria participates, it is now God's work to which there is no one to answer. I'm already losing my sense of logic here, unless there's some hidden paragraph somewhere in the fine inscriptions of the contracts in question that no one has ever seen. Therefore, Madam President, I say that I will again make a proposal between readings to resolve these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. For a line, Mr. Delchev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u46	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs Daritkova, there is no way I can let such speculation flow from the stands of the National Assembly regarding Bulgaria's vaccination during the first three months of 2021 because the situation was the exact opposite of what you say. Mr. Borisov's government then failed to vaccinate the nation as it had stated, on the contrary, Mr. Borisov's government compromised the vaccination of the nation, ordering quantities of vaccines that were totally insufficient, and I will give you an example. In January Bulgaria received 9750 vaccines from Pfizer BioNtech; in January Does that sound like some very impressive numbers to you? When we ordered 66,000 vaccines and received 66,000 vaccines in January, Greece already massively vaccinated its entire population and reached half a million vaccinated Greek citizens. Israel in January, if you recall, was a 20% vaccinated population of the entire Israeli nation. Bulgaria was going to vaccinate 30 000 people?! Compared to 7 million people, this is far from the mass vaccination that you claim happened during the first four months of the year. Yes, while you were in power while GERB was in power, too few people were vaccinated because the wrong vaccines were ordered. Vaccines that we now have to donate to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia because... [[speaking indistinctly]] I'm talking in general about the AstraZeneca vaccines that had to be donated. We are now talking about selling Pfizer for the same reason. [[Noise.]] The reason is that when Mr. Borisov came out and said: AstraZeneca is a bad vaccine.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u47	Please don't make any noise.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u48	...again compromises the entire vaccination process.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Are there any other lines? Third line? Third line, please, Mr. Tafrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Here the minister and other colleagues focused on this, but I would like to realise again that we, as a society in this pandemic, failed against the elderly people of Bulgaria, because unlike the other European countries, not only European, in Bulgaria we did not prioritize the elderly in the very beginning. And that, as experts say, increased the number of dead. And here the question is raised outside the way we in Bulgaria deal with the pandemic. In general, the question of the attitude of our society towards the elderly is raised. And this is something that should be our earring because there wouldn't be a mortality rate if we had prioritized the elderly as in almost all European countries. That's what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u51	Thank you, Mr. Tafrov. For the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u52	Dear gentlemen replicating, I repeat that ratification by the National Assembly does not stop the procedure for donation or resale. The Council of Ministers has every right to do so without this happening and depending on our ratification. In addition, Mr. Delchev, I would stress that the best vaccine is the vaccine made. Bulgaria was then receiving as many quantities as were provided for in the preliminary contracts to include the delivery of vaccines from the European Union. [[Heckling]] It is possible that your figures are correct and you have taken them out of the National Information Portal, only you didn't say anything about AstraZeneca's vaccines, you didn't say anything about Moderna's vaccine being authorised after January of this year. You didn't say anything about the fact that every vaccine that was delivered to Bulgaria was then used. And now we have huge amounts of vaccines and, as a result of the general political instability, the attitude of this government to the vaccination process and of this minister, of the attitude of some politicians who took advantage of the anti-Vaxer moods to accumulate a political dividend, we have come to a situation where, in the presence of so many vaccines, Bulgaria really is the first to die and have the lowest percentage of vaccinated. Furthermore, I would stress that a priority really at the beginning of the vaccination campaign were the medics, and that was absolutely correct, because only if we guarantee the life and health of medical staff can we ensure that adequate medical care is obtained in medical facilities and that was correct. Subsequently, when the vaccination campaign was delayed, it was very important that young, active people were vaccinated, and the green corridors gave this opportunity because they were the carriers of the virus. Subsequently, a little more active and older people were involved. But what do we see at the moment in Bulgarian hospitals?! Intensive wards are full of young people. Young people are dying right now, babies! That's a problem right now. It's a problem that needs a solution to... [[Noise and lines.]] [[noise]] I am only speaking facts and truths, if someone wants to object to the fact that this is the case, he can make a reference to the average age of patients who are currently in intensive care. All of us, colleagues, are responsible to the Bulgarian citizens for allowing political speculation with such a heavy topic as vaccination coverage, such as vaccines, such as the treatment of the pandemic and I believe that all these comments and discussions with accusations should stop because I will recall one more thing: At the beginning of the year, when really some countries allowed themselves to deliver in a commercial way and through mechanisms for better payment of more vaccines, there was a sharp reaction by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, there was a call for a European meeting so that companies who did not fulfil their contractual relations with the European Commission could be held responsible. So we have borne all the responsibility, as always, we continue to bear it now. But right now I think that we really need both the attitude and the comments and the calls from this tribune to be in another direction. In no way do we want to stop the possibility of donating vaccines, and the government does. The National Assembly shall carry out its responsibilities anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u53	Thank you. Professor Mikhailov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents, Dear Minister Katsarov! All this is true that it cannot be hindered by the donation, implementation and delay of ratification, but I am surprised now that on such an important agenda, I hope that we do not continue with the speeches. In fact, colleagues from GERB turn a simple ratification, a humane act into a political debate, into accusations that are dumping the caretaker government and specifically the Minister of Health, but let's say a few serious things. The first thing that is serious is that really every dose of vaccine was used, but with a fight between doctors in front of the RGIs. If this is your logistics, you can make doctors fight, and it was photographed on the Bulgarian media and shown on this brat that you set up with ambulances to the centers, on RZI and gave them a vial of two or three doses. Please, we've been through three months! Bulgaria ended up at the bottom of the vaccinated, Bulgaria ended up at the top of the mortality rate at your time, please! In your time [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] And now, looking for the boomerang effect again, let's put everything on the other head, and we'll go out in white. You will not go white in front of the Bulgarian nation. Let's stop this speculation, your speculation. You've made an imbalance with the ordering of the vaccines. Then you corrected your mistakes and the European Union took pity on you. You asked for more and more doses from Pfizer-BioNtech. All of this, we know it and it is documented, exported, commented by the European Commissioner. So, please, all these things as facts have been told. I would also like to say that now the government may not use the National Assembly from here, could ratify it, sign contracts, donate it, well, let's remember 30 years back, I am a doctor with over 30 years of practice, when has Parliament been involved in the purchase of vaccines? How many vaccines are imported into Bulgaria, colleagues who are doctors here? Have you ever heard of parliament ratifying vaccines? Never! The situation is special, the situation is special and for every action here the government is seeking help, and the previous government has also sought help in one way that may not have been very appropriate without giving serious information, so there is nothing surprising. It's amazing the exercise that's being done here now to make a government, which made serious mistakes that it was a nation's favorite. Yeah, vaccines save lives, but this government didn't save lives. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u55	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Is there anyone who wants a line? I won't. To make a statement, Ivaylo Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u56	Dear Mrs. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In this situation we have two choices. One choice is to deal in some way with giving, selling or other vaccines, and the other way is to throw them out. If you want us to throw them out, let the minister throw them out. Moreover, this situation will continue in terms of something, when there will be no parliament and we risk then, really throwing them out, because they will not dare to give them or sell them. So this is the first. I believe that there are unnecessary comments, politicisation, going back months for such an action, which takes half an hour, and we have taken a very precious amount of time. In my opinion, we do not need to debate any more a fact that can be resolved to parliamentary control on Friday, when perhaps the minister will be here and will be able to respond to all the problems and to the vaccination gaps and to all the others that you think are admitted to. It is unnecessary to divert the topics beyond this donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u57	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any lines? I won't. To make a statement, Dimitar Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u58	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! It will support ratification because we believe that it is important for Bulgaria to manage in the smartest and most effective way its availability of vaccines when we have vaccines that we cannot use, to sell them. Here, in connection with this ratification, the previous and the next, I have a particular important issue, namely the issue of the Plan to place a third booster dose of vaccine. These vaccines can be given as a third dose for humans immunocompromised, and for people who first two doses did not work. Other countries are already thinking seriously about this issue, including Israel, which I set as an example just now, since August, they have a third booster dose, and in the US there is already an approved one of the vaccines to be placed as a third booster dose. It is good to know what Bulgaria's plan for this dose is. We will or will not put in to ensure sufficient availability, both for those who want to be vaccinated for the first time and for the second time, and those who need to be vaccinated once again in order for their organism to be able to meet the fourth, fifth, tenth waves of all varieties of the virus. Of course, we realize that this is not a decision that can be taken without sufficient analysis, without sufficient medical research, but since there are already enough accumulated material, data and facts regarding the third booster dose and how it affects the body. It is also nice for Bulgaria to start thinking about this before we find ourselves again without enough doses of vaccines. And one more thing to add, fellow Members, you know the story that the day is known in the morning. " - Unfortunately, the morning for vaccination in Bulgaria was quite gloomy. She left hard with some refrigerators that were carrying vaccines, only they were in trucks that were only used as a mockery. It started hard as a number of selected vaccines because these vaccines, which the Bulgarian government chose in 2020, turned out to be without approval and we had to wait 4 months before any mass vaccination started. It also started hard for business because the months of January, February, March and April business was closed, worked hard when other countries opened their economies and started working again at full speed. So the day started hard. And now it is very difficult to reverse public opinion, which was created then in the first months of vaccination, and to explain to people the importance of vaccination. Yes, it is important to inoculate them because it is the salvation from the severe disease that today has taken 131 lives. But how do you explain to people when the previous prime minister has explained that this vaccine can be applied, it may not be applied, but it must be stopped AstraZeneca because AstraZeneca has been compromised. It's a fact! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We have to remind them... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Well, how are they not facts? Didn't he come out and stop vaccination with AstraZeneca? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] No, it's not all of Europe. In Bulgaria, we stopped it with the Prime Minister's decision without hearing the Headquarters and without complying with any procedures. This can be examined by any authority interested in this fact. We must not forget this, but we must make an effort to make up for lost time and continue to advertise the good benefits of vaccines, because they are undoubtedly such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u59	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? Mrs. Zaykova, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u60	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Minister! I think we're off the subject, so I suggest we call off the debate. It's about donating these vaccines or throwing them away? Sorry, I can't listen to GERB-SDS's apotheosis all the time how they don't know what they've done or listen to scientific tracts. Let's do our job, we've got a lot of work to do. [[Applause from IHN and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u61	Mrs. Zaykova, only by the Rules of Procedure you have no right to make such a procedural proposal and to ask for an end to the debate, as this is the first vote. Any other lines? I won't. And there are no speeches, so Mrs. Zaykova's proposal has predicted the end. [[Applause from IHN and BSP for Bulgaria.]] We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the resale of doses of vaccines to Moderna Switzerland GMBH against Covid-19, No 46-102-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021. There's no quorum. Verification of the quorum through the computerised system. There's a quorum, we're continuing the hearing. I again put to the first vote the Bill on ratification of the Agreement. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, will you make a proposal for a second vote? Mr. Gazhev wants to make changes between the first and second votes. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u62	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I propose that the deadline be three days.. not seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u63	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal so made to shorten the period of three days. Vote 151 MPs: 150, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE TRISTAL DELIVERY AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF NERVE MACEDONIA AND PFIZER INC. AND BIONTECH MANUFACTURE GMBH ON THE MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION OF THE DONATION OF VOXIN AGAINST COVID-19, Developed by PFIZER INC. AND BIONTECH MANUFACTURING GMBH, AND OF A DONATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF Northern Macedonia. Entered by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021. I request the presentation of the Health Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u64	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of the vaccine against COVID-19, developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH, and of the Donation Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 46 102-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021. At its extraordinary meeting held on 7 September 2021, the Health Commission examined and discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Grant Agreement between and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and of a Donation Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 46 102-02-8 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, who presented the Bill and the reasons for it. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the Agreement by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines (supplied by Decision No 491 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 and ratified by the Law on the ratification of the Agreement by which the European Commission is empowered to propose vaccines to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary arrangements for the purchase of vaccines (supplied by Decision No 491 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 and ratified by the Law on the ratification of the Agreement, which the European Commission is empowered to offer to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines (supplied by the Council of Ministers of 2020) with their producers in order to obtain vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19 (en. 71 from 2020) . The order of Art. I6.2. in the preliminary agreement concluded between the European Commission and Pfizer and BioNTeh, provides for the possibility that the surplus doses may be resold or resold without profit from the participating Member States to other Member States of the European Union, Member States of the European Economic Area, or with the agreement of the manufacturer to the needy third countries. According to the Report of the Chief State Health Inspector of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Agreement concluded by the European Commission and the quantities of vaccines laid down on a quota basis for each Member State exceeding the quantities actually required, a number of Member States have taken action on donations of surplus quantities to third countries to prevent, on the one hand, the destruction of pandemic vaccine due to failure and, on the other hand, to assist in ensuring equal access worldwide to vaccines against the new coronavirus. The report states that 300,000 doses of Vaxzevria vaccine and 100,000 doses of Comirnatti vaccine are available at the warehouse of In accordance with Decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice of the European Union'), the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice of the European Union') has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union (the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union (the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union The draft agreements provide for a donation of 51 480 doses of the vaccine of Pfizer and BioNTeh against COVID-19 with an expiration date until 30 September 2021 and the quantity proposed for donation is worth BGN 1 560 635. The reason for the ratification of the agreements is art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill shall be provided on the basis of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the ratified agreements should not be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria because of the confidentiality requirements laid down therein, as well as in the Agreement concluded between the European Commission and Pfizer and BioNTeh. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the Committee on Health shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the first vote, a Draft for the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of the vaccine against COVID-19, developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH, and of the Agreement on donation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 46-102-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u65	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. There is no report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I allow myself to take the first word and I will try to say a few things on the ground. Firstly, I believe that, in principle, these agreements on donations and the resale of vaccines could have been concluded, implemented without asking for the sanction of the National Assembly. But obviously the Ministry of Health and the Council of Ministers have felt that this is necessary, insofar as the previous composition of the Council of Ministers led by Boyko Borisov also engages the National Assembly with the order and purchase of these vaccines. So I accept this logic and think that the National Assembly should rule accordingly, since that is the intention and desire of the Ministry of Health, respectively of the Council of Ministers. Secondly, as regards the legal grounds for ratification. Here's to Mr. Gazhev, I mean. I don't see him, frankly, in the gym, but I guess he hears it from somewhere. With regard to legal bases and art. 85 of the Constitution, there is no legal problem in relation to para. 1, t. 5 and 7. If you see this article, you will see that these are the points that are closest to the nature of these agreements, so from the perspective of the Constitution and the legal bases, there is no problem for us to look at and ratify the respective ratification bill. With regard to confidentiality clauses. Once such clauses are in the Agreement between the European Commission and the manufacturer, and obviously partly or entirely these clauses have been carried over to the donation agreements, respectively, for resale, we cannot refuse these clauses to remain confidential, so the proposals that Mr. Gajev intends to make with regard to the previous agreements yesterday with Bhutan and the two who have passed today, anyway, cannot pass either through the Commission or through the National Assembly. The truth is that in principle such agreements, any international agreement should also pass through the Committee on Foreign Policy, but the main one is the Health Commission in this case, so the President of the National Assembly has judged. With or without the opinion of a second committee, there is no problem with these agreements being viewed here. I personally trust my colleagues from the Health Commission, who have almost unanimously ratified these agreements, which means they have approved the ratification laws. I would suggest, at least for this agreement, in terms of this and the sensitivity of our relations with the country we are talking about, that we make sure that at least this is accepted at first and second reading today, and the others, if possible, if the Health Committee can hurry, will gather on Tuesday so that the rest of them can pass on Wednesday. Because, excuse me, but we are talking here, especially when we talk about donations, to deliberately create some practically non-existent legal obstacles and to abuse the provisions of the Rules only and only to delay ratification, to focus attention on some non-existent problems, I think it is not serious. Once again, at least for this agreement, I address colleagues from GERB and specifically to Mr. Gadzhev, not to make a request for amendments to the Bill for ratification of this agreement, especially for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u67	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The requirement for ratification follows from the signed agreement ratified by the National Assembly. It is justified by the fact that in the event of disputes concerning donations and sales in the implementation of the contracts between the European Commission and the vaccine producers, Belgian legislation is applicable and not Bulgarian legislation is not applicable. This requires ratification of these agreements by the National Assembly. Part of the contracts with producers themselves have agreed with the European Commission that it is acceptable, given the dynamics of the situation and the danger of destroying vaccines, to make donations and sales with subsequent ratification. The negotiations on donations or on the sale of vaccines shall be conducted between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the representatives of the European Commission and the representatives of the company concerned. One such donation contract usually takes two or three weeks, the first one even took more than a month. This led to the inability to donate vaccines to the Republic of Macedonia on the initial negotiations with the Macedonian country, because the time needed to hold these negotiations was so great that there was no time left to implement the vaccines. This is the reason why we, as a government, made this commitment, believing that there is no National Assembly not to support, ratifying such a treaty, after the choice is, either to destroy these vaccines or to donate them to another country. If you are opposed to donating or selling these vaccines and prefer to destroy them, say it clearly, so that the next caretaker government, whatever it is, knows and does not proceed to such types of procedures at all. As for the particular treaty, in support of what Mr. Vigenin said, another important argument. In these vaccines that we have proposed, our plan is for everyone, but also for this contract, they are with an expiration date of the end of September. If today we do not take a decision if we postpone ratification, they cannot be granted to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, because unlike other contracts relating to AstraZeneca and Moderna, the two companies there allow a donation with subsequent ratification. The company Pfizer BioNTech, the consortium, did not allow not only us, any country, to be granted, sold or donated vaccines without ratification by the National Assembly. That is, if today on 2 September the National Assembly does not approve of this ratification, we cannot make the donation of vaccines to the Republic of Macedonia, most likely the Republic of Macedonia itself will then give up the donation, as they simply will not have enough time for these 50,000 vaccines to apply them to their citizens. So I refer here specifically to Mr. Gazhev: I don't know what kind of games you're playing, Mr. Gajev, but it's not the subject of political or party dividends. Please very strongly, allow this item specifically with Pfizer's donation to the Republic of Macedonia to be accepted today in two votes to make this donation and to do a good deed to our brothers in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Otherwise, the donation will really be ruined for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u69	Thank you, Mr. Katsarov. Any other speeches? I can't see. We close the debate and move on to the first vote of the Bill for ratification of the Tripartite Donation Agreement. They voted 134 MPs: 134, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u70	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, dear Dr. Katsarov! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted at the first vote should be reviewed and put to the second vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u72	LAW on the ratification of the Tripartite Donation Agreement between and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of the vaccine against SOVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and of the Donation Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia Art. 1. Ratifying the Tripartite Donation Agreement between and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of the vaccine against SOVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH, signed on 20 August 2021 and the Donation Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, signed on 20 August 2021. Art. 2. Arranges the agreements under art. 1 shall not be published in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the second vote the proposed draft law. They voted 146 MPs: 146, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal is accepted and this is also the item on the agenda. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: HEARING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE EXECUTIVE AGENCY OF THE GORE ALEXANDER DUNCHEV 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HUNTING STOCKS, HUNTING BASES AND THE AGREEMENTS ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HUNTING TERRITORIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Please invite the Executive Director to the Chamber. We continue with the questions from the second round to the Executive Director. A question is to be asked by the DPS parliamentary group. Are there any questions from the DPS parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u74	Madam President, honourable Members! It's a bit of a weird issue between budgets, but we have to keep going with this hearing anyway. Dear Mr. Dunchev, you mentioned in the previous hearing that you carried out additional checks on hunting farms, other than those required by law once a year to carry out such checks on all hunting farms. What's the conclusion? In addition to standard annual mandatory checks to be carried out on hunting holdings, you have carried out further checks, as a result of which the standard and additional checks have been found not to respect the letter and spirit of the law on all hunting holdings and that in some of the hunting holdings it has been so, briefly speaking, that the country should abdicate from these hunting holdings. Of course, everyone should not be placed under a common denominator, because at the same time there are hunting farms with concessionaires who strictly fulfil their obligations. My question to you is as follows: after you have established in a certain number of hunting farms drastic violations, what is the will, what is the Ministry's idea from now on in what direction to take in the sense of staying the hunting holdings state, one option; the second option is to switch to ending concession contracts and joint use contracts; and the third option is to go to pure concessional use as you have at the moment? What is the direction the Ministry of Agriculture will take in this direction after these checks, following these findings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. Abase. You're welcome to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u76	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you for the opportunity to be in the National Assembly again and to answer your questions. On Mr Abase's question, I can say the following that, as a result of these extraordinary checks, were indeed such because it turned out that trivial checks do not reveal the whole picture and we had to check what was happening with revenue, with contracts, with documents years back to establish that in most farms these contracts for joint activity under art. 9 of the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act does not actually result in any serious financial result for farms, they do not significantly change their revenues after the concessions have been concluded. Only the state of the game is improved in some of the farms at the expense of other farms, as you yourself pointed out. In view of these results, what we have done by the Forest Agency, we have proposed to the Minister and have created a working group in which we have included representatives of state-owned enterprises responsible for these contracts and all 20 private parties currently under these joint operations contracts. They were invited on September 21st, the other week at the Hunting Farm, in the open air, in view of the situation, but under a roof, where we can discuss with them exactly what we do from here to there with these state hunting farms. We have asked the state hunting farms themselves to offer their own vision of how we are moving forward with these farms. They had an idea before 1989, then the idea was further developed after 1989. Today we are in very other economic, social and administrative conditions, and that is precisely the question we will ask: will we have state hunting farms, how many to be on them, with what function to perform, whether to have private partnerships, or example hunting farms, where hunting lodges have already been privatized, there are such three or four farms? What's the point of the state being a country already paying the entire bill, and the private partner is barely getting anything, and he's already using the cabins as private? Or farms where the game and fences are now private. We have several farms where the game in the fences and the facilities themselves are private, for one reason or another, and where is the point of the state to interfere and to confuse its traps, and to mix financial and administrative responsibilities? These farms may be better to go directly to state forestry farms, to transfer their hunting territories to state game areas and to provide these areas there, just as you proposed in order for state game farms as clean land-uses, where the state only receives money and pays nothing, unlike hunting farms. There will probably also be hunting farms where the good coordination and integrity of the private country proved over time, for example, is one such example, does not prevent private partnerships from continuing, but according to the Forests Agency, and this will also be consulted with all these stakeholders, will have to be completely and rewritten the rules for such partnership, where we would have decided to allow it. At the moment the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game creates an extremely naked order, we really do for these violations that we have established now, we will find it very difficult to take responsibility because the treaties are extremely weak, the Law does not give any power and it is very difficult to break contracts. Currently, we have invited for three acts to be drawn up by the private user of the Hunting Industry because of the three illegal buildings. But if they fall into court, what do we do? We don't do anything, and that's where the contract can stay for 15 years. The direction of the Ministry is with dialogue to find solutions, because currently the direct confrontation can start it, but I do not believe it will lead to anything positive, as many of these people, whatever it is, have made a good contribution. The lack of rules has led them to abuse their rights and to turn state hunting farms into private hunting farms. So through dialogue we can find those with whom we can still work in order to have a brand new vision for these state hunting farms. Here the main problem is that the state somehow interferes with business, management and hunting tourism. We, together with you, need to assess whether this is resonant, or better the country, as it is written in the 2013 Hunting Strategy, which has not been accepted, we simply have it on paper, where it is said that the state has a key function of being a gene bank for game, and if everything else collapses as an organization, the state somewhere has reserves to restore the game if needed, as is the case for example with the wild pig when it has disappeared in practice from two thirds of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u77	Thank you. We're moving on to a question from Stand up BG! We're coming! Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dunchev, the question of "Rise up" БГ! It is for the wicked practice that in our view the most appetizing hunting and forestry farms should be devoted through hunting concessions and joint work contracts, as a matter of fact, let us be clear, for a total of 7 million. It's on fire. Seven million acres of forest are dedicated to hunting concessionaires, and in many cases by applying hunting fences the access of citizens is absolutely limited. It is also clear who are close to the power close to the government of Boyko Borisov. I say this because in the Revision Committee, iconic cases have become clear for hunting farms with hunting lodges, which then become a place for the entertainment of the political elite. It's about the Vitosha Studena, it's about the Palamara near Shumen. The fact is that these holdings are fully feudalised and the access of ordinary citizens is impossible. With my team from "Rise up БГ!" and with the parliamentary group of "Rise up БГ"! We're coming! We were at Palamara. I can tell you from the first person that there, in addition to specially missed persons, the access of normal citizens is impossible and at the same time it is a holding with an area of 105 thousand. Dka, which has a term of the concession contract until 2034. So until 2034, if after Borisov we assume that he manages such an elite, this becomes inaccessible, inaccessible to citizens. Legends are worn in Shumen how power has been entertained, how Borisov's close surroundings have been entertained by Palamara. We wanted to see what it was about, but we weren't allowed in. At the same time, checking the paperwork...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u79	Your time, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u80	...we have established that the sale of eight buildings on the farm and of regulated land estate with an area of 12 decares is authorised. My question to you is: what is your attitude to the sale of buildings and of separate areas of hunting farms, and is the sale of these buildings already finalized to
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u82	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, we are familiar with the problems in "Palamara" and next week we are going to carry out a review of the contract, which we invite you and the other Members of the National Assembly to join us in order to see with their eyes what it is about, to see if everything is as it seems. According to preliminary information, the fence is really private, the game inside is already private, thousands of deer, the buildings have been privatized. Some of the hunting buildings have been privatized. Previously, repairs have been made to them, or others, we will find out. The problem with Palamara is that 70% of the account in this holding of several hundred thousand leva is paid annually by the state hunting holding, while the private country pays about 15 BGN, i.e. only 10%, which is economically nonsense. The only logic is that we make great game care there. It turns out in advance that this is not exactly the case, because the care is actually to keep animals in the fence, only and only certain people can shoot them, not to make an adequate selection. Their quantity is above the eligible stock, which means that it is not really the scientific goal that is being pursued, but another objective. I can only tell you that we do have problems with these concessions. We have a fresh inspection by the DGS, where a fence was built illegally without any documents, without any permits. At the moment, together with the director of the South Central State Enterprise Zdravko Bakalov, we conducted a check and revealed this illegal fence. That's what happens on the field. Until now, the fence has been hidden for two years, probably there, with animals for which there are no documents. How does that work? I mean, there's trouble. Let's not just talk about problems. What we have been able to do so far is thanks to the support and freedom that Professor Bosukov has given us and to the support that you also give us with your questions. Apart from the analysis, we already have a public register of almost all these contracts. We're completing it with the hunting parties' associations right now. We have public analyses, protocols, inspection data that has not been there so far, we have revealed the economic problems and we are already looking for solutions. For example, we can go back to the decisions we talked about with Mr. Abase, we can add one solution. Imagine that you are a very rich man and you still want to hunt in peace on a hunting farm. Perhaps it is better just through an electronic auction each year to spend all the use of the game in this holding.. You are calm, you are very rich and want no one else to interfere with you. So there is a one-year solution, not to be 15 years old, to abuse time and power, and after a year, if we see that these people abuse game management and use, next year another rich person can benefit from it. There are solutions. We are currently waiting for funding from the Ministry of Finance to make a public system of hunting permits, so that they are digital. As soon as someone goes hunting, everyone knows to have a permit. As soon as the game is removed, there should already be a photo of it, as we did. We infiltrated, and the Agency joined, a photo-register of all trucks that are dispatched with wood from Southwestern state enterprise to engineer Damyanov. We can do that, we're just waiting for the game funding. Then we won't have them in our checks the results that a large part of the hunting permits are with exceptional gaps. The game is not described, it is not written who used it, which means that in all these hunting farms someone through forest workers, through pressure on them, has allowed himself to use the game illegally, with gaps that have been covered. We can clean this up with digitalization what we have prepared as software, and we rely on you to support us in solving legislative problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u83	Thank you. We're done with the questions, moving on to expression of attitude. There is such a people, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u84	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am pleased that after visiting the hunting farm in the Forty-Fiveth Parliament, you all found it interesting and started visiting hunting farms. Go on, there's something to see. Hunting is an extremely important topic for Bulgaria and so, as the topic was structured by colleagues, and as the hearing was structured, it covers absolutely the whole spectrum. Unfortunately for me, however, Mr. Dunchev was only dealing with a small part of the hunting in Bulgaria, namely the contracts for joint activity. Strangely or not, the contracts for joint activities are the only thing Mr. Dunchev and the Executive Forest Agency have no powers because it is not a principal. He can't do anything there. He can only advise the Minister on what to do. Now what did it turn out to be? That Bulgarian MPs wasted two days listening to a gentleman who can go to do a check but can't do anything. What does that mean? That if we had invited a city transport controller, we would have more added value, because he would have told us how many people and how many buses he controlled, and how many tickets and tickets he wrote because Mr. Dunchev couldn't do that. The big question, honourable Members, is: why are we listening to Mr. Dunchev and not listening to the Minister because the Minister is a principal? The Minister is the one who can break contracts because this National Assembly has entrusted Mr. Dunchev only a advisory function. The question is: where is the minister and why are we listening to a senior civil servant? [[Reply from National Representative Maya Manolova: "Why don't you invite the Minister? "]] Ask this question to the gentlemen of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria: why is the Minister not here? The big question here is this: do we want to embarrass the current minister or do we want to say something about the other minister? Because if Mr. Dunchev had found such big problems, maybe he should have called the D.A. If he hasn't called the D.A.'s office, what we're doing for two days, other than wasting our time, is some crazy PR guy. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u85	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Come in, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS more important is not the hunting but the conservation of the game. For me, it is our generation's responsibility to future generations. By keeping the game alive, we're preserving the biodiversity of this country and this planet. I want to tell you that I am not in a conflict of interest because I am not a hunter and I have long been appealing to reverse the philosophy of the Law and to make it from the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game in the Law on the Conservation of Game and Hunting, but this is another topic. Why are we discussing these issues that have been raised by the colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" with the Executive Director? We've done this before, in other people's meetings. Related political formations or sympathizers, as there is between the CEO and apparently representatives of the greens, raise their ball and make an image. That's why the minister isn't here, Mr. Abrovsky. Otherwise, you're right, it's the minister's responsibility, and if anyone can break a contract, it's the minister. We've heard findings on how there are treaty violations. When there are violations of contracts, you either refer to the prosecution, or you look for a way to correct these violations, or you break them. By the way, this procedure began in the distant 2001 period with the conclusion of contracts for the joint operation of two farms, without regulation then. In 2008, this was regulated and most contracts were concluded in 2008. They are basically a 15-year contract that expires soon. Conceptually, as Mr. Abase said, we must accept whether we are continuing on this path that we have worked on so far, and if it is vicious, what will be the new option that will enable us to keep the game and put order in these hunting farms? Otherwise, there is a contradiction between what you say, Mr. Dunchev, that where there are contracts concluded, the population of animals is significantly increased, there is no poaching of both game and forest conservation, because these rich people have some healthy boys who guard these fences, and whether this is the right way to say it, but these are your findings. Otherwise we go to the other extreme, when good animals, selected animals that have a trophy value, shoot for meat. You have to find balance. And as for your claim that there is no return, yes, surely there is no abuse, but for me the protection of game is not business. The society, the state and all of us should be thinking in this direction, that is, not just thinking about profit and profit, but thinking about how we could preserve this important biodiversity. So the finding of our parliamentary group is that there are problems there.. they are about to be solved, but give you as the initiator of all these findings of yours your report to the Minister of Agriculture. Again, these contracts are coming to an end in the next few years, to end them and to see how we could be more useful to our nature and to Bulgarian game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u87	Thank you. We are going to BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u88	Dear Mrs. Miteva, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Listening and carefully following the entire debate, the questions and arguments, the arguments of the importers and the very hearing, which was interrupted and about the subject faded for two weeks because there was no time, I will report what has happened so far. The only useful thing is that the topic of this sector is opened and this segment of Bulgarian business life, which is of great importance and historical significance, Bulgarian hunting has traditions from 150 years up, thousands, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian hunters, generations of Bulgarians have a bearing on this issue. Next, I will report that the topic was neither selfless nor on the spot one such extremely important for the Bulgarian business life topic. There were nuances of personality struggles with containers and people who had contracts for joint activities with state hunting farms that did not concern specificity and this interaction for other political and economic reasons and arguments. It focuses, as Mr. Abrovski said, on the joint contracts of legal entities with state hunting enterprises. I would like to remind you, honourable colleagues and viewers, that in 2002, when the opportunity for this joint activity was introduced, then Bulgaria is about to lose completely its game diversity, because there is chaos in this sector because of the uncontrollable and naked poaching. We, as politicians, should not carry them on this sector with private and individual problems, economic and political battles. We should think this model of joint activity whether he has already played his part, to sit down, but not often politically and publicly to come the respected Mr. Dunchev, to explain it to us. He himself said that the minister was very helpful. I disagree, Mr. Dunchev! Rather, the Minister has left you on the line of fire and you, with your actions and good intentions, are simply a buffer between these battles. Whether we should talk about a new model, but not only focus on the contracts for joint activities between legal entities and state hunting farms, but consider as a whole the three main segments in the Bulgarian hunting, the territories on which the Bulgarian hunting groups are hunting, the territories that are active and the activities carried out by the game farms. The third segment that we are focusing on is not well-intentioned in this debate, but in order to resolve politically and economically, for the third time I repeat, battles, and not to solve the problem of the sector, is the joint activity between legal persons and state hunting enterprises. We need to think at a big round table and we are ready to sit with all our colleagues in this Parliament, obviously this will not work out, to look at our strategy for hunting, what are the standards, what are the different examples in European countries. In one Hungary, for example, state hunting farms have a function and everything is absolutely state-owned and is managed exclusively by the state, and employees are appointed by the state, but they on a semi-managerial principle, reaching one goal, get higher pay. There are other models that we can take as an example. Let's adopt a new approach that uses the potential, the enormous potential of biodiversity and our nature, but to protect the interest of these people, the ordinary people who need and respect the laws, and are hunters by heart and by heart.. to give them a chance to hunt, those who develop the game, everyone to feel calm and use the potential of Bulgarian nature. But also those people who have great opportunities to define and systematize a line of moral and right in which they can invest their money and not be accused of being some kind of black demon. Including I would love to have a next meeting of the Committee on Agriculture to hold a meeting on various farms, to see on the spot what is happening. Then let's think about a state strategy that we can implement in quality the entire potential that our country has in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u89	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. From "Democratic Bulgaria" "Please come in, Mr. Sandov."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u90	Dear President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Dunchev! First of all, perhaps I should start by saying that we really in this National Assembly have lost a lot of your time, which I regret, but this has not happened intentionally, perhaps for the seventh time you have come to this hearing, in which you have come to, we from.. Democratic Bulgaria.... and personally I am an importer, but thank you very much on behalf of our group for carrying out all this information. This would not have happened with a hearing of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, because it is related to the treaties, Mr. Abrovski, but in practice does not know this and does not participate in these checks so that he can provide us with this information, which is precisely the controlling body, the Forest Executive Agency and its chairman did in this National Assembly. Yes, Mr. Hristov, I am very happy to hear these words from you, but it seems to me that this is the position of the SDS, but not of your coalition partner from GERB. Because it is your coalition partner from GERB who allowed the state hunting farms to become some forest residences of a large part, let us not say the oligarchy, although we can thus call it, but people with power that is not derived from the choice of citizens from their close relations with precisely the elected by elections of power taking over and occupying positions people in this country. We have heard of many examples in hunting farms where the state has given in to the state interest, has given in to the interest of the hunting groups located next door, has given in to the law. In fact, these joint operations contracts show a very bad practice, which is happening in other sectors as well. The 15-year commitments remain for the 15th year, and on the 14th year or the firm fails, or for some other reason the contract is broken, and these investments are not made. We have heard from your reports that most of the investments are made by the state, and at the same time private entities in these joint contracts manage to stay there permanently, to build buildings, much of which illegal, to build fences and to actually create their own villas, villas to which people from power or close to the power of banquets are invited, generally speaking, and perhaps for more worrying, perhaps illegal actions that are taking place there. We cannot determine this because these territories are virtually inviolable, in the sense that people, ordinary citizens, cannot get in there, and often it has become clear that people who otherwise have access to this map cannot go there. What happens in practice to all these illegal buildings, illegal fences, with the state retreating from the conservation of game and selection by allowing this to have many animals? It is assumed that, in practice, these people do not care about the game, they care about having some places where they are hidden from the cameras, to be hidden from the public. In this regard, I would encourage you, in addition to the dialogue, Mr. Dunchev, if you continue to be the executive director of this agency, to continue not only with the lightening of this information by being public on the site all these contracts and the hunting tickets you said about, but also to give the institutions in this country the opportunity to seek state interest by breaking the contracts where this is necessary due to established violations. I think we've already mentioned several such objects. In the end, we need to find a more permanent solution to this issue, which both protects biodiversity and game, and creates enough game that for many people, I am not a hunter and I am not the holder of such a joint agreement, nor any of our group, but we know that many thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, still practice the hunt and they still have to practice it responsibly, but also with access to these state resources, I say again, of responsible use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u91	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, following the speech of Mr. Sandov, who is also the importer of this hearing, it has already become clear what the purpose of the exercise is. In the very short time of this Parliament's existence and in the deficit of this Parliament's time, and at the same time to solve a huge number of important tasks, we included this hearing, which took a very valuable parliamentary time, but apparently the politics and the hunting are connected, and it hasn't been linked for a long time, and for many hundreds of years, hunting and politics have been going hand in hand. I'm going to continue what Mr. Abrovsky started, in the manner in which he submitted this hearing. I'll divide my attitude into two firsts, as a way of hearing and then, in the very details that the Agency has done. In the way of the hearing, I address not Mr. Dunchev, but the importers. Dear importers, for two weeks this Parliament has been dealing mainly, 90 percent, with ministers' hearings. The only time we do not listen to a minister is precisely the hearing about hunting and hunting farms. With respect to Mr. Dunchev, but he is the CEO of the Executive Forest Agency, he is a purely controlling body. A wonderful hearing that we have made is true, and I congratulate you on that, there is a problem, but this is a wonderful hearing that could have happened in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, not to engage valuable parliamentary time in plenary. All the ministers who have been here in the last two weeks, we have listened to them, even some of us have repeated them, they are ministers, they are principals, they are the politically responsible people. We did several times on this subject, listening to Mr. Dunchev's checks. All this is very good, but can't answer the question: so what? Yeah, checks, findings, violations and so on. My question was not random, my question was: what will the Ministry of Agriculture do, what will, what policy does the Ministry confess in this case after these findings? I didn't expect an answer from Mr. Dunchev. With all due respect to him, he is not the person who can answer this question because he is neither a principal nor a political responsible person nor a party to the treaties we are talking about. So, honourable importers, with this move to have Mr. Sandov have five minutes of fame and here to present his demands and ideas, we have lost so valuable parliamentary time, as a result of which Mr. Dunchev could not answer where the policy of the Ministry is going in this area because he is not the man. Now there are two questions: why is the Prime Minister missing one single time from the hearings in two weeks? The Minister does not confess the same ideas that Mr. Dunchev and Mr. Sandov and everyone should see what a great, amazing expert Mr. Dunchev is with another idea in the future. I wish this idea would come true because it turns out that Mr. Dunchev is such a professional! This isn't right as an approach. This concludes my first half in the way of organising this hearing, because it was organised with another idea, for another purpose, so that this is what I am telling you so far, become known to the whole public. In purely professional terms, yes, it is true that there are problems. The Bulgarian hunting farm has a very large history, many thousands of people have worked here and we have to recognise the efforts and the great contribution of Pencho Cuban in this field, but after so many years of this, built with much work and thus ordered contracts for joint use and concessions, we have seen that there is a distortion in many places. I do not say everywhere because I just said that among these concessionaires there are also decent people who respect the Law, but we should not put them under a common denominator. I think it's very difficult for these contracts to be broken from now on. As a non-jurist, I'm telling you that these contracts...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u93	Your time, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u94	...are such a collection.. neither under the Law of concessions, nor under the Law of the Law of Justice, and given what kind of people are concession holders, this is almost impossible. From now on, it seems to me that what BSP colleague also said the state should simply exercise its role in this process and establish the direction of development of the entire hunting activity in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u95	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u96	Thank you, Madam President! My fellow Members, I am afraid that we have slid the hearing or at least the conclusions from it in one direction that I do not know exactly whether it was the intention of the importers, Mr. Sandov, but you will tell us. Instead of talking about game conservation, biodiversity development, we had to talk about property, property rights, who manages state estates and are they still state property, and that was, as I understand it, the real subject of the hearing. Dear colleagues, it is difficult to talk about state hunting farms now, because what is their state, when only the notary act is state?! Everything else is handed over to private owners who gradually grow into owners. Today is the building of one residence, another day is something else and so the property passes into private hands of something that is exclusive government property and is protected by law. Not to mention the game, which is also extremely state-owned, but is grown differently as on farms. Let's get back to ownership and money, because this conversation is not just about property and government money, because obviously this state property is supported by government money, but it is enjoyed by private individuals. In general, we return to the model from the 1990s, i.e. from the 1980s and the 70s, when these state farms, which have the resources of the state, were made only and only to entertain one group of people, the then owners, and now the power holders, with the fences stopping all the other ones, neither transparency nor access of citizens, because the purpose of these farms is not only to hunt in them. There may be citizens who want to go and see the animals who want to enjoy the Bulgarian nature in this way, and that is absolutely impossible in the current adopted model. Here many times I have heard you explain how successful he was, in some cases he was successful, in other cases he was unsuccessful. There can't be a law, a system that allows things to work, and it doesn't work. The system must be such that it only allows things to happen properly and to work. The system cannot allow someone who has a contract to not know how old you are for 15 or 20 to exploit something for free, exploit it in a bad way, the results are bad, and we say: there is a contract and we cannot touch it. That's not how it works! In other words, there are at least two conclusions. First of all, there is no strategy, there has never been one, and there has never been one, when these important decisions have been taken on the conclusion of contracts, concessions and joint operation of state hunting farms, and all this has led them to the verge of being state or non-state. At the moment, we can really hardly define what they are outside the purely formal issue of ownership. Mr. Dunchev, although your powers are really limited and there is no elected government behind you to bear the political decision and responsibility for what will happen and the National Assembly and Bulgaria expect you to work on this strategy. Someone has to do it and someone has to say in the next 30 years how the hunting and hunting work will develop in Bulgaria, not only about the conservation of the game. Yes, there are good examples where this happens in a wonderful way and with the money of private investors in these farms. But I say again: without a single approach, without an organised approach, without clearly distributed rights and responsibilities and without clear objectives of state policy in hunting and hunting, this will not happen. Secondly, you should start working, and hopefully a next National Assembly will succeed in doing this work, there will be a new Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Whether it's about hunting and protecting game, or about protecting game and hunting, I don't know if that's the most important thing, but most importantly, this law needs to be adapted to the modern requirements of society and to what's happening. Otherwise, the robbery of nature, the robbery of national resources and what is happening will continue, even taking into account the good examples. We don't deny that there are any. We can't keep turning a blind eye to the fact that the entire sector...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u97	Your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u98	...is given to private owners and the state continues to pay the bill, and the results are, as you yourself said, variable, different, colorful. So my appeal to you, Mr. Dunchev, is: despite the lack of serious political support, make efforts to work on both the strategy and the project for such a law, because in the end it should also be an initiative of the executive power. Thank you, and I think that hearing still made sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u99	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. That concludes this hearing as well as the item on the agenda. Rest till 12.15. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u100	Colleagues, we will proceed with the agenda. As colleagues are not yet ready for the Second Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2021. In addition, I propose that we make a shift in the points and move on to a hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the procedures, the amount and method of financing of the project for the extension of the water channels in the Varna Lake, including the respective actions of the State-owned enterprise Let's continue this hearing from last week and then we'll go back to the DOD point. I put to the vote what I have proposed to move the points. Vote 134 MPs: 109 against 9, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Let's start with: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND MESSAGES OF BASIC TURN. 110 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE INTERMEDIATE PROCEDURES, THE DIMENSIONS AND THE WAY OF FUNDING THE PROJECT FOR THE COLLECTION OF THE VARNIAN LANGUAGES, INCLUDING THE EVENTS OF STATE RESTRUCTURING We have come to the first round of questions asked by the Democratic Bulgaria. Mr. Mirchev, would you like to ask yourself the question again to Mr. Minister if he... Are you ready, Minister, to answer Mr. Mirchev's question? Here, the minister remembers and is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I also carry a map that I can present to your attention, where the route is marked both on Channel 1 and on Channel 2. [[Shows.]] This is where you can see the route of Channel 1, and this is the route of Channel 2. It can be seen from these routes, as marked on the map itself, an idea of the range of drag work in both channels can be obtained and it can be categorically concluded that it affects a lot of terminals, starting from Varna-east, so we get to the Ferry Complex Varna and Varna-west. Just to remind you that at Varna-West, which is operated by the state-owned company Varna Port (Varna) EAD, there are 17 shipping seats, while all other terminals located in Varna and Beloslav Lake have a much smaller quay wall and much less shipping seats. It can also be concluded with regard to official statistics, which tells how many loads have been processed through different terminals. For example, Varna-East Last year's tone. For comparison: the port terminal Lesport 739 thousand. the tone. So I believe that the drag work that covers Channel 1 and Channel 2 affects at least eight port terminals and with the greatest effect it affects Varna-west. But to get to Varna-West, you must undoubtedly pass through Channel 1 to continue the work on Channel 2. That's what I can present at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. First question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, you have answered quite correctly with the facts that we are supposed to comment here on this question. My question in this order of thought to you, Minister, is to clarify the importance of this project, which has not been done in 45 years, as stated in the first part of this hearing, we need to answer a few more questions that have been made as an introduction. First, do you have any information and how far away is the channel fairway 1 and 2, the shipping channels, the port or the lake wall of the TPP Lake? Whose property is the pier wall? Isn't she state property? How many shipping locations and how many of them are at TPP Lake because these questions will disprove all the suggestions that are being made that this is actually an important project that needs to be done in order to develop shipping and all the commercial activity in the ports of the East and West of Varna? It must be made clear to colleagues from "Yes, Bulgaria" or as the ICN calls them the Doubles that this is an important project for the whole of Bulgaria, it is not in private use and cannot abuse the name even of Mr. Dogan as much as it brings them political benefits. It is in everyone's interest to come out the truth and for the very procurement procedure that we all want to know how it happens, where it happens and what are the overall benefits for the country of the project so carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a certain statistic regarding your question. Just for comparison... First, I want to adjust: on Varna-West there are 19 ships, not 17. [[a line from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Port terminal.Feribot complex has two shipping places, each 200 m; Lesport port terminal. Three shipping places with a common front of 450 m; TPP Lake. Three shipping places with a common front of 617 m; Gaztrade. One ship seat of 250 m; TEREM shipping plant. Two floating pontons, two floating docks; MTG-Delfin. Yes, four shipping places with a common front of 1250 m and two floating docks so that I can return to the TPP Ezerovo has three shipping positions with a common front of 617 m. Yes, really public property represents the quay wall. [[DB lines.]] No. Because you asked the question... [[DB lines.]] The dreary work is carried out a little more than 300 metres from the pier wall, so there is no way in any way to draw any conclusion in relation to any terminal that dredges itself in front of the pier wall itself, on any of the terminals. These are navigable canals for nothing. The shipping channels are at enough distance from any pier wall. Overall in Varna-east and in Varna-west, at all terminals located in Varna and Beloslav Lake were processed last year more than 3 million tons of cargo. Just to remind you that last year Varna-West processed about a million and a half loads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a question from.. Stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u107	Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! A quick question. I am interested in purely as an economist: on what basis and on what basis was the decision on this investment taken and what are your expectations for its recovery in time, how will they return, for what time and more important.. by increasing the load flow or by increasing the fees that will be generated by improving the services and increasing the interest in the port? As a sub-question: are pro-active clients looking to use the new improved service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Each new service should be preceded by infrastructure creation no matter which transport sector this refers to. New service, new customers, improved quality of service cannot be obtained without creating infrastructure. Project depths of 11.5 m prior to the start of the Project were insufficient to attract new types of ships to join our terminals. The deepening of both navigable channels undoubtedly has a direct and indirect effect. Loads of all terminals will be increased only when they are sufficiently flexible management, with sufficiently attractive prices of the services they offer to attract new loads. Is it acting pro-actively? I can only be responsible for the state-owned company operating in Varna. With respect to all other companies. They are absolutely private and can undertake adequate market practices. I hope they will be so as not to put our state operator in a position and in conditions that cannot meet the practices that other operators apply. Only through competition will the quality of the services offered by the operators themselves increase. Yes, I hope new freighters will be drawn. When's the investment coming back? This also depends a lot on the actions of operators themselves as market players. I can't tell you what analysis was done at first, because I didn't do it, I wasn't involved in its creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes the first round of questions. Moving on to the second round of questions. There is such a people. Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in connection with the great public interest in the Varna region and not only for it, according to the agreement concluded between the State-owned enterprise "Port Infrastructure" and "Transport Construction and Recovery" EAD for the deepening of Channel 1 and Channel 2 at the port of Varna, my question is: is there access to information and how can interested parties get acquainted with the technical project on which the channel deepens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u112	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, the information is available as it is a contract of great public importance. I do not think that in any way the project should be closed, but rather the opposite... it should be accessible. Whoever has asked for information about the contract itself and about the technical project itself since I am a minister of service has been provided to him. I recall that the contract is of engineering, which engineering includes in it both design and the construction works themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u115	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Minister, State-owned enterprise "Port Infrastructure" is managing the infrastructure and fixed assets of the public transport ports of national importance. By virtue of art. 115o, t. 1 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications exercises the ownership rights of the state in the State Enterprise. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications has the sole owner of the capital. In the event of the above circumstances, a framework contract was concluded between the State-owned enterprise "Port Infrastructure" and "Transport Construction and Recovery" EAD, under which the sole shareholder company agrees to carry out research, design, construction and installation, repair, rehabilitation, dredging and other works of sites included in the approved annual investment programme of the enterprise. In this regard: where else is the infrastructure related to the aquatory of the country deepened, what are the benefits for terminals, for maritime business, for the Bulgarian industry and economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u116	Thank you, Mr. Milushev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can directly answer the question: what is ahead of other executed and upcoming dredging procedures; improving the conditions of shipping in the pier area 1A at the port terminal Varna-west and restoring the project parameters in front of the pier walls in the port terminal Lesport; rehabilitation to achieve the project depths of the approach channel to the port terminal Burgas East 2 and port terminal Burgas West. Upcoming, following future procedures, capital dredging of a swimming pool between a new eastern Volvom and port terminal Burgas East 2 and 2A, maneuvering area to T2A and port terminal Burgas West, deepening the 6th and 7th pier location of port terminal Varna-east. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u118	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Second question from BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u119	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Not that there is no use, not that there is no point in deepening the channel and in my regard I will touch on this subject, but the whole decision that has been made is too strange. I am glad that the Minister at the time was Chairman of the Governing Council of the GMPI. I guess he's best aware of all the conditions, why and how this decision was made. But what did 435 million have to do? lv. to be transferred from the Port Infrastructure to the Transport Construction and Recovery Board under the Inhouse scheme and then assigned to the next company, then to reach the company of the Kaliningrad steamboat, which at that time had two loggers, then with the money of Bulgaria, it buys three more loggers and makes an entire dredging fleet? How can this whole procedure be completed, given that the Berma of Asparuhov Bridge is 1320 meters away and should be reached at a depth of 14.50 meters? That is, the Asparuh bridge will fall and it must be strengthened by additional means that are not provided here. In addition, after crossing the Asparuh bridge there is a rock that is 13 meters away and it has not been able to dig in when the channel was made to serve the port of Varna-west, which is the main port with 3423 m quay wall, notice colleagues, and the whole lake has a total of eight terminals that are served. But how is it going to go from 12 meters to 15 meters? Yes, the rock can be dug, but how much will it cost? Then there's a second rock that's on Strashimirovo. How will it be dug? And we get to the Varna-West port, which is 11,70 m deep, that is, if it digs down below, the whole pier wall will collapse. How are we gonna do that? Are funds provided for this? Not that you can't, not that you shouldn't, but how much will it cost and can all these funds be returned? How's that gonna happen? I mean, very question mark. It is not as simple a question as it was commented in the public domain: for whom, how, and why? No! There is a need to do, but the way it is done is just an ideal corrupt environment one time, and a second time, it cannot be realized in this way. Not to mention one more thing: has anyone seen how many cc's, Mr. Minister, have they now been dug in because this money has been given for the digging of these 2 m depths?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u120	Mr. Gutsanov, can you put on a nice card because it doesn't count the time of your speech? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u121	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u122	And you've exceeded your time a lot, so I'm gonna have to ask you to be shorter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u123	And why is this whole table now pouring back into the lake in two places where the ship's emergency site and the Nalbank depot was? You are aware that this finger will also come down and clog the drain again? Has anyone also studied: what is the composition of all this dreary mass because we know that chemical plants have accumulated a huge amount of harmful metals and elements? I mean, I think this whole process is about another institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u124	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start with this yes, indeed at the time I was Chairman of the Governing Council, but such a proposal has not been made. I have not been involved in the decision of the Board of Directors and there is no such decision regarding the conclusion of any contract. So I can introduce you to how much a dreary mass has been dug up. In addition to this engineering contract, there is certainly a contract for construction supervision. Construction supervision shall establish and monitor compliance with and implementation of the Project, the relevant rules and regulations in the implementation of the actual construction process. Since the start of the project, for example, until the end of July, 4 564 073 cubes have been excavated. m, which represents 65% of the dredging volume defined in the Project. Once again, dredging is taking place in both channels and in the reversal circle. As you said: it has been carried out and has been taken out of the large-scale items identified during the research. So far, with the help of a floating crane, specialized marine equipment and divers, a total of 44 pieces have been removed with a weight of over 1 tonne and a volume of more than 1 cube. large-scale items. In financial terms, at present, the MPR of around 65% of the total volume of the contract has been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Second question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u127	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In front of the hearing, as you claim now, that by being Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Port Infrastructure (Port Infrastructure) you have never been involved in examining and coordinating the Agreement with the Transport Construction and Recovery. As you said last time, this has not been considered at all on the Board of Directors. Please answer clearly: by whom has it been examined and how has the award of the Transport Construction and Recovery been carried out in practice without the participation of the Governing Council? At the front of the hearing, you also said that you had no information about how the TTV without tender and without practically enough experience had hired the private consortium, the private consortium, as you claimed. You also said that for this reason you do not know how they then transfer an order to the Russian company Gydrostroy. I would like to ask you from the time in front of the hearing and this until now, given that you are its principal, have you been able to learn how this happened? One, how did the contract come from the TTV without the intervention of the Governing Council, being its manager? Two, how did the CTV transfer its public procurement and procurement to a private company, and the private company to a Russian company? What we have at the moment is that a Bulgarian state company must carry out the order and ultimately without public procurement the money comes to a Russian company. Please clarify these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u129	And since I didn't take my card, would you mind giving me your map of the depths so that we could meet with colleague Mirchev what you showed us in front of everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u130	Why should he give it to you? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The contract was concluded between the Executive Director of CTV EAD and the Director-General of the State Enterprise Port Infrastructure. Decision of the Board of Directors of the Port Infrastructure [[speaking indistinctly]] , I repeat to you: the Executive Director is the Executive Director of the Transport Construction and Recovery and the Director-General is the Director-General of the State Enterprise Port Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u132	For 393 million!?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u133	The contract was concluded between two state bodies with the same principal. The State-owned company was established by law and the TSW was a universal beneficiary of State-owned company Transport Construction and Recovery. The contract with which the TSW reassigns to the EU Build is based, as you said, I have become familiar with a little more information, the internal rules that the TSV EAD have developed and these rules are audited and certified and are called the Rules for an integrated quality management system for the environment, health and safety at work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u134	There are no idiots here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u135	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u136	In accordance with these rules TTV EAD maintains a list of potential suppliers of products and services and 59 companies are listed in this list. TTV EAD has chosen this DZD based on this list and based on its partners. Specific offers and requests have been sent to four potential companies that can carry out this activity by the TTV, as I told you,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In accordance with the protocol they have made for each particular choice of supplier, TTV EAD has designated as a contractor the EU DZD Build, as you yourself said. It is likely that the Gidstroys are a responsible representative of one of the components of this................................................................................................. For this reason, it is likely that the Russian company is chosen to carry out the relevant activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a second question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! We find special meaning in this hearing, because we must, I repeat, bring out the facts and see the meaning of what is being done and how the state funds are being spent. At the beginning of the hearing, in your speech, you said several of the parameters for the port of Varna and I want to see if I understood correctly. You said that the port of Varna-West is actually the largest seaport in Bulgaria, that the idea of this project to deepen the channels 1 and 2 is to be competitive at the port of Constanza, Romania, which in fact steals some of the heavy ships and they are our direct competition. That's the point of the project itself. Is the port Varna-west the largest port with the largest tonnage and the largest turnover? And to repeat and distract another lie, that's actually what we said last time, who sets the agenda, but that's according to the log, if I'm not mistaken the movement of the ship that only goes to the TPP Lake, and that's actually the map. [[shows port map]] , which shows that the ship reaches the end and follows the pharvatres of channel 1 and 2, and in fact, it is carrying out its project, which is at stake and you can find it from the GPS of the ship on the map, which there is no lie and fraud, and everyone can get acquainted with the ship's movement. This is another lie that needs to be distracted because there is no work for TPP Lake or TPP Varna, but work for the biggest port of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u139	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Secretary, come in. Mr. Letifov, did you actually ask a question at all, or were they just any findings on your part? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] What can the Minister say to that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the port port terminal Varna-west is slightly more than 50% of the total load capacity of all terminals in Varna and Beloslav Lake. Yes, Varna-West due to the presence of the most shipping places and the longest kilo wall, and the most processed cargo can be categorically concluded that it is the largest port terminal in Varna and Beloslav Lake, this is the port terminal Varna-West. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u141	Thank you. Second question out of stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u142	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! From the previous question, I understand it's very nice to be nice, and I think the whole room agrees with that. And we will have bigger ports and the biggest Bulgarian elephant. The question I would like to ask you is related to the topic of digging the channel, and I hope that besides the honourable Chamber will listen to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. I want to get a clear answer to who signed the building papers for acceptance of the site................................................................................................... Who signed the construction papers for acceptance of the site? Is an inhouse order available in this case? I think it's an easy answer that you have to give who signed, you must know who signed. Did he have the right to sign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u143	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Construction works and acts of acceptance of the relevant work shall be subject to Decree No 3, which is a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The object is not finished yet, it is in the process of execution. There are certain payments and invoices that were based on the accepted relevant stages of the contractor's work. The partial stages to be fit for acceptance should be signed by the contractor, i.e. by the TTV, by the Construction Supervision, which... [[Heckling]] They are in line with the contract between the GPPI and the TTV. CTV is the performer. So they're signed by CTV and Oversight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this, we have exhausted the second round of questions. We're moving on to expression of attitude. There is such a people, Mr. Todorov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! From your answers, I would draw the following conclusions because many things have not become clear. First, without a tender for public procurement, a State-owned company, Port Infrastructure, has entered into an agreement on the design and deepening of Channel 1 and Channel 2 in the amount of 350 million with the company in charge of transport and construction, which is 100% state owned through the Ministry of Transport. Secondly, it did not become clear why both the grounds for circumventing the Public Procurement Act and the award of the activities of a Russian company is secret? Third, following a decision of the Varna Administrative Court, it is not clear why the contracts signed by the State-owned company.. Port infrastructure with.. Transport and construction reimbursement.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u147	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u148	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in the Law on Maritime Spaces, the inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria are very clearly distributed the roles between the individual entities, and the Minister is to conduct the state policy in the field of port activity. The Maritime Administration has been replaced with regulatory and control functions and the State-owned enterprise Port Infrastructure is building and managing the infrastructure as a collection of aquatoria, territory, engineering road infrastructure and so on. I personally did not understand today whether I listened to you as a minister or as a former Chairman of the Governing Council of the GMPI. I would like to address the topics of your hearing as a minister. The need for deep water sites can be established by all strategic documents for the development of transport in the Republic of Bulgaria. In each of them, the main problem and weaknesses of our seaports are the insufficient depths, existing shipping sites, port aquators and water channels that do not allow access to and processing of modern large-scale ships. Varna port terminals are therefore uncompetitive and are a reason for diverting the traditional cargo to Constanza, Romania for our country. The last strategic document in which the problems of the ports in the region of Varna are analysed in detail is the Integrated Transport Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria between 2030 and the investment intentions for the development of existing and the construction of new and port terminals in the region, which, with regard to the parameters, of their quay walls and aquators, correspond to the parameters of large-scale ships transporting cargo across the Black Sea and the trends for their future increase cannot be justified without providing the appropriate conditions for the access of ships through the shipping channels. With the deepening of the two approachable channels of the port of Varna to its terminals, I stress to its terminals because there are different terminals, with different forms of ownership on the territory, both at the port of Varna and on the territory of the port of Burgas, the strategic development of our largest port and Varna as a sea capital is defined. This is one of the biggest projects and the largest investment in 350 million. BGN, which took place in the last half century, on the territory of Varna. Thanks to the exceptional resources of the port of Varna, Varna and Beloslav Lake, and the entire Varna-Western complex, the port is attractive for the development of the economy, industry, logistics and distribution. What are the real benefits of this project? The deepening of the two channels will provide more than two meters from the existing to 13.50 m. This will allow the reception of large ships post-Panamax from 60 to 70 thousand tonnes, as well as containers with a capacity of three to five thousand TEU. To recall that the two terminals in Varna port were built in 1976 and since then no such large-scale infrastructure change has been made. Varna will be the door of Bulgaria by sea. He will compete with Constanza, such as the Project for Deepening, opening up for the most heavy ships, transport will be cheaper and will make the port much more attractive, and commercial competition is where the cargo goes. Varna will develop its potential for industrial development and logistics hubs with added value. The gradual withdrawal of heavy activities from Varna-east while maintaining port activity from the sixth to the pier place will open the city to the sea, will protect it from environmental pollution from the loading activity, especially with regard to the fine loads related to the service and road transport. Port of Varna has a lot of ports. Some of them are public property. Varna-east and Varna-west are terminals, not ports. Port is the general concept which covers many terminals that are owned not only by the State but also by many other private entities. I'm going to list some of them: "Odesos", "Stf," "Delfin", "Marianopol" and "Terem" "Crz Flotski arsenal," "Varna". As the largest terminal is Varna-West. The industry of Bulgaria is focused there. It was called the Valley of Chemistry for a reason. Port of Varna is growing, and the state's commitment to building the infrastructure is commitment to all the terminals, not only to the state terminals, to all terminals. This is the state policy to allow cargo to terminals in Bulgaria regardless of the form of ownership. The discussion of the award procedures in a negative context of the inhouse award, and then, when it comes to the involvement of two state-owned entities, the GMP and the TSW, called by law to carry out this subject of their own, raise another much more significant issue, namely, are state-owned state-owned enterprises in which to exercise principal rights?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u149	Mr. Zhelyazkov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u150	How far and how far? Because if the answer is yes, then the problem is dramatism without drama. If the answer is no, then the debate should start soon with all responsibility for the state's participation in the country's economy. To say that the deepening of the two channels benefits one port terminal, and that of TPP Lake is pure manipulation. At the very least, because it is a small terminal with its one-and-a-half ships' seats, compared to only Varna-West, there are 17 ships' seats and generate 90% of the freight.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u151	Mr. Zhelyazkov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u152	So for all ports in the foreground to preserve the benefit of a microscopic port is more than ridiculous. What will be the fate of port terminals is a matter of policy and government priorities. Whether they're conceiting or being operated on by a state operator is yet to be seen. But in both scenarios, deepening increases enormously their capacity and their economic potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u153	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u154	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! What former Minister Zhelyazkov said is very much true. Only there's a lot of things we need to clear up right now. Yes, indeed the digging of the channels, the deepening of the Farvater is a necessity in order for Panamaxy, larger ships to enter, and thus to cheapen the transport, and indeed the port of Varna to be an attractive port, and competition for Constanza. Just to open a clamp that only about 20 years ago the port of Constanta and the port of Varna were comparable. Thanks to the investments made by the Romanian governments in these years, the port of Constanta has currently opened nearly 175 thousand jobs, and directly, and indirectly, honourable colleagues, while we were arguing whether or not there should be terminals in Varna, where should they be, what should happen to the port of Varna? There are some very important questions here that no one has answered. Yeah, the channel has to be dug at 14 and a half meters. How will it be deeper under the Asparuh bridge? This is the second time I have asked the question, given that the Berma of Asparuhov Bridge is 13 meters and 20 centimeters away. How will it reach the port of Varna-Western, which is the main terminal? Even if we have to be objective, it was part of the chemical plant infrastructure, given that there could be up to 12 meters. That's where the Berma is, and that's where the foundations are. The whole port will fall down, i.e. who invented this whole project? Yes, it is, it has to be this thing, but that money won't be enough for that to happen at all. Next, why is no one talking about the port under the Maksuda, given that nearly 9 million were given for the design of this port with five ships' seats? Two for grain with all the necessary infrastructure and silos, two for containers and one for general cargo. Why didn't anyone comment on that? When this port is built and the need for the port of Varna-east is removed, then there should be the attraction zone of Varna. Yes, now take a big step forward for this attraction zone, but it is far from what it should be. Who signed and with what decision of the Council of Ministers this whole area was given to other companies? Not state, not Varna Municipality, provided we have a memorandum between the Council of Ministers and Varna Municipality, signed about 12 years ago. Why not announce a competition for the port of Varna-East the former territory how to look with aquariums, with a hall that is necessary for congress tourism and everything else? After the former minister opened the subject, let's ask him: why didn't that happen? Next, once again I ask: In House is a very good thing when it was offered in plenary, the idea of In House was quite different. For example, a warship, since we are on a naval subject, has an accident during a drill. Not to announce under the Public Procurement Act who should rebuttal it, but to go to the Terem, which is 100% state property and in the fastest way to be repaired and entered into the ranks. But not the inhouse to be used when money is transferred to hollow state companies and not to real companies with opportunities. And then these state-owned companies without competition, without auctioning all these funds. If you remember 7.8 billion said the Prime Minister that they were given in the last year of GERB's management Wherever it is in the world, it's a huge sum, fellow Members. Therefore, I think that one of the first decisions to be taken by the next parliament is that the inhouse should be limited to those functions for which it is necessary, not to be a door through which to become drains of state funds in huge sizes. Therefore, I think that, yes, it was a good undertaking to deepen the channels in Varna, but the road to Hell is also full of corpses of good intentions. Because can it be realized this way? No, you can't. Because we need other means to do so and we need another common concept for the development of the port of Varna and the port of Burgas, and for the attraction of the corridors. I'm not going to open up this whole topic, what and how it has to be done to be Constanza's rivals, to reverse the pyramid, not like it was 20 years ago. The second thing I'm sure you have to do and people want it is to have justice. We are all aware that this deal and these actions are not just something that needs to be done, but done in a vicious way. So it wasn't a coincidence before that I asked the question whether another institution should be involved. This cannot go on forever, honourable Members of Parliament, because people really want to know that there is justice in this country. It cannot be clear that what has happened and what is happening is not done in the best way. By going through the inhouse and going through all this extrusion, and when it comes to pouring out this table, which until a few weeks ago was pouring back into the lake, not into the 12th villa zone where it should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u155	Mr. Gutsanov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u156	So I am glad that there was such a hearing to make it clear that they cannot continue this way and I hope that the next National Assembly will start with the In House. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u157	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u158	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with the way this hearing has been going, but I cannot fail to admire your Stoicism, it has lasted so long, you have been asked the same questions literally many times, and it has raised even more questions than to clarify the situation in particular. So far we have not clarified, and you do not want to answer the question: why is the In House procedure preferred? Moreover, in this inhouse procedure, the contract has not been reviewed, signed and approved with the participation of the Board of Directors of the Port Infrastructure and it has just become clear that this has not happened and that is 400 million. Lev?! As we say, we are all involved and investing public time because this is the biggest investment in the last 45 years in the port infrastructure of Bulgaria. But you cannot give us a clear answer why you prefer the inhouse and why, after all, by preferring this approach, you have produced not without your participation categorically, because four years you have been at the head of the Port Infrastructure....from a Bulgarian state-owned company to a second state-owned company, to a private company to reach the Russian diggers from Kaliningrad? We have not received any answers to these questions, nor have I noticed that you have entered into more detail between the first part and the second part of the hearing. You have also shared with us many untruths, and I can't help but note them. At the request of one of your colleagues, you said that the contracts between the Port Infrastructure and the CTV are available and everyone could get acquainted with the technical part, the price offer and so on. No, until recently this was not true because access to all these documents was achieved through the Public Information Access Act at one time when, including your ministry, decreed silent or other types of refusals. And no, you haven't been sufficiently open as a principal in terms of this procurement, and you know that very well, and I'm surprised why you claim such things to the MPs?! You've admitted, and it can't be any other way that the pier wall is public government-owned. Yes, it is exclusive state property and cannot be used in any other way by Mr. Dogan and his port of TPP Lake without a concession or lease procedure. And there is a very specific agreement with knowledge, I suppose, also to you, which is called a And yes, there can't be... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Please don't interrupt me! For this reason, we from the Democratic Republic of... [[DPS lines.]] These are the cards. Now we are talking about the framework partnership agreement and how the pier wall, without which Mr. Dogan's port cannot be able to function at all as such, has been transferred from Port Infrastructure. With a framework partnership agreement. This framework partnership agreement we have sent a signal to the prosecution, and right now the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office is looking at this signal and we expect it to speak on the issue. So. We are not satisfied with the way this hearing has been going, and with the answers we have received. And, yes, I cannot disagree with all my fellow Members in the direction that this project matters, but to say that through it you will compete with Constanza, provided that at least 15 years of time have been lost to do anything, is, to put it mildly, a tale of gullibles. I regret that Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov came out, who made the following defense thesis that since there are state-owned companies, there must be an inhouse, and in order not to have an inhouse, we need to reconsider our concept of having state-owned companies. Perhaps both things are necessary: both state companies and in house, but what must be removed from this equation is corruption for hundreds of millions of levs, which we saw with the In House, right, Mr. Nankov, in the case of Automagistrali? Thank you. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS, applause by DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? For Mrs. Capon's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Please extend the time to 5:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u161	Thank you. Voting regime for the procedural proposal to extend working hours until 17.00 They voted 133 MPs: 129, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Working hours are extended to 5:00 p.m. Last statement of attitude by the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u162	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Indeed, the minister has very strong nerves to appear several times in this room and try to convince some people who all the time, like Mircea Krishan for the cucumber with the constant repetition of 98% water and so on, this is a very complex process, Mr. Minister. I thank you, however, at least from the last questions and answers you have made clear that the overall concept of the port of Varna is a system of channels and quay facilities with different destinations. You have explained to them that there are two Channels 1 and 2 that connect the Black Sea with the Lake of Varna and the Lake of Beloslav. And as you've seen, they're artificially excavated and need to be deepened periodically. And this became clear to colleagues who never went to Varna. This process is important in general for the deepening of the channels 1 and 2 in the port of Varna and this project you said is strategic for Bulgaria. But those who are on the yellow pavements are hard to understand. On the other hand, it became clear that you were the Director of the Management Board and then, as early as 2014, this project is being discussed, in 2017 it entered your investment programme and only in brackets I would like to tell you that then TPP Ezerovo is owned by CEZ Group and Bulgaria is walking on the road for investment, for projects, for the deepening of the depths along the coast so that water transport can be developed. It has also become clear from your exhibition that no cubic centimeter is deepened and it is not intended to be deepened within the meaning of this order in the area of TPP Lakeovo. It became clear that all the manipulations and these issues that we are discussing today, with the idea of hearing again another lie from a political formation, are now hearing the truths and somehow not enjoying it. So that we can continue and find out the truth, I'll give you the map. It clearly shows where the lady with the short cut remains, to be able to identify and look, and to see that the complete digging does not affect the TPP Lake at all. [[noise, lines, laughter]] [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay gives the map. Claps by DPS.]] And one more thing, you have a special invitation from the director of the TPP-3 to visit and see what a wall is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u163	We've been there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u164	Your special invitation is to be able to prove you with a simple language if at the same time 60 ships stand on all terminals along that TPP-3, there can be only three ships standing there. And with what do these investments that are made by a private investor, like right-wing politicians pricks your eyes? And on top of that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u165	You're stealing them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u166	Please! About the theft, I'll tell you this: years ago you and a children's group personally smeared my ice cream suit, stolen, along with that guy Sandov. [[Applause from the DPS. Claps from DB and shouts: "Bravo! "]] And when something serious is said, and when you enter this parliament, and when you come here, don't bother with ice cream and petty thefts and cucumbers! [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] Deal with investment! Do not engage in what Bulgaria develops from the point of view of hatred, suggestion and lies! I will not talk about NGOs or your protection of other state interests other than Bulgaria. [[Voices: "Oooh! " by DB.]] And there's one more thing I want to tell you. If you want Mr. Mirchev and Mr. Hristo Ivanov saw him running into water, come along, I'll come with you, we'll go and see what a port is, what a TPP-3 is, you'll see what you call a pile of iron in what state it is and how it helps the economy of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u167	Your time, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u168	You are not only harming this Parliament, you are harming Bulgaria's economy, but even more, I regret that you have begun to harm yourself. Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. Announcements by DB: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u169	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u170	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! From today's hearing, we heard different groups of people talking and answering their own questions, different questions. On the one hand, colleagues from GERB and DPS were constantly asking themselves questions and answering questions all the time. [[DPS lines: You're talking nonsense!]] However, the more interesting question is not whether, the more interesting question is how. [[DPS lines: "Well, how? "]] How, in a way, 400 million. lv. They went to a private company. Here, I'll ask my colleagues from DPS who replicated me from place: if I had asked you four years ago if a private company could run a 400 million project. lv. Without a public procurement, what would you have answered? No. [[(DPS lines: No?!) Who told you that?]] Because the Public Procurement Act explicitly states that when there are 400 million projects, 500 million, one million, 500 thousand, they are being made public. But that's the question..How?.... which you should all ask yourself, not only us in this part of the room, not just the minister, but Mr. Prosecutor General. How come we didn't hear him once ask how it was implemented and how this project was implemented to deepen the Varna Lake? Actually, the numbers are very interesting. At an average market price of 23 BGN. per tonne cubic meter the depth of the Varna Lake is performed for twice as much to achieve this price of 400 million, total value of the transaction. In addition, the project was carried out without any financial and economic justification and plan, and the socio-economic benefits have not been examined. There is no.. or at least our attention has not been presented, so far a report, although we have demanded it for what added value it will have from this project. And here comes the question: why do you continue to defend such an obvious theft of a double-larger project, implemented at twice the price, in the way that in the automagistrals, they were executed through inhouse, entrusted to private companies for more than 7 billion. lv. Orders? Varna Lake is the same example. Therefore, honourable Members, from this hearing, from the answers of the Minister and from the speeches of all colleagues, will remain to hang the question of how 400 million went to a private company? And here is the role of Mr. Prosecutor General to ask himself this question and to give an answer so that all Bulgarian citizens know in the last four years how projects for millions have been implemented in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u171	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Mrs. Tsoneva, come in for a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] The statement was most likely affected personally and therefore wants a personal explanation. Read your Rules of Here you go, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u172	Gentlemen, Mr. Ramadan Atali was clearly referring to me, and since it was about me, I am obliged to answer that question. Yeah, I've been out and been in protests. But no, I never attacked a man, he was an opponent, with ice cream, much less Mr. Ramadan Atalay. We've never met in a situation like this, so this is obviously some sort of fantasy. But, Mr. Atalay, I don't see him here, if you're feeling attacked, it's not ice cream, it's hard arguments against which you have nothing to answer. Maybe that's the case. And as for the short haircut, as he means, it is a matter of choice and you must respect it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Mr. Sandov, are you also asking for a personal explanation? And you are also mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u174	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Atalay, yes, because I was mentioned as well. First of all, it is clear that this was just an attempt at another political attack on our group. Such insinuations have been made from the very beginning of this National Assembly. But first of all, I've never stolen. Second of all, I've never had ice cream on you. Do you have something else in mind? If you don't mean one serving, but not one of those that your Honorary Chairman is distributing, and maybe that was the debate today with one such portion, or it's about another portion that I've revealed that... [[National Representative Halil Letifov is going to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u175	Mr. Letifov, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u176	... Your sympathizer in my hometown had given out as a form for buying votes, but it wasn't ice cream, it was half a pack of rice, a pack of flour and a pack of salt, for which the man, unfortunately, burned and a judgmental decision was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u177	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u178	Madam Chairman, this is my procedure, not Mr. Sandov. We found out he likes green ice cream, and we found out he likes it on servings, but we can't help him. He has chosen where he is in the circle where he is located in the green, cathartic, capital circle. Don't let him, while he personally explains himself in love with Mr. Atalay, making his suggestion, that's not the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u179	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. [[Noise and lines. People's representative Ramadan Atali wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] What do you want, Mr. Atalay? Do you also have a personal explanation? All these personal explanations were in response to your speech. [[Reply from MP Ramadan Atalay.]] Yes, you mentioned these colleagues and they rightly asked for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u180	Okay, I just need to tell them a few more things about deepening, so they know what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u181	Mr. Atalay, or take as any other procedure in the manner of conduct so that you don't...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u182	Okay, if you just want to talk about ice cream in this room? It's not gonna happen, but still. Minister, two sentences. Everything you did when you were in the management of the Board of Directors, those mistakes that you made them, the mistake that you made by firing the director of the enterprise, now that it doesn't happen again, like those comrades on the right...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u183	Mr. Atalay, this has nothing to do with the personal explanation if you felt offended!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u184	...to appoint a relative of yours to be the director of this enterprise and then come here to make excuses like the ones you didn't dirty with ice cream? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u185	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. That concludes the hearing. As colleagues are not ready yet with the State Publicly Guaranteed Report 15 minutes of rest. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u186	Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC PROCEEDING FOR 2021 Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u187	Thank you. Madam President, I propose that the vote and the continuation of the debates on the so-called small budgets for state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund be transmitted on BNT 1 and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u188	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I am voting on this proposal for direct transmission. Vote 160 MPs: 138 against 11, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Please direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u189	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We had reached § 13. I propose that we return to § 1 with the following considerations: In § 1, three proposals have been adopted, which have three different versions of the consolidated budget revenue for the DEA. This also applies to expenditure on the consolidated budget. Due to the fact that different proposals on the same budgetary indicators have been adopted, there is a disagreement between the consolidated budget indicators and the funds. Also due to the adoption of proposals by different parliamentary groups, there has been a re-evaluation of budgetary indicators and in this regard discussions with political forces and parliamentary groups, as well as with the Minister of Finance, with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, experts from different groups were held. In this regard, I propose to your attention amended § 1, which takes into account the proposals adopted in a balanced way, if the Members of the National Assembly are willing to give them the proposals made so...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u190	Yeah, the text is multiplying, so I guess it's already in the Quaestors. Please hand out the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u191	Thank you. And this balanced way is as follows: the provisions on the anti-crisis measure of 120 BGN shall enter into force from 1 October 2021. supplement for each pension until the end of 2021, as well as child care benefits up to 2 years of age of 650 BGN. From 25 December 2021, the minimum pension is increased to 370 BGN and the maximum of 1500 BGN, as well as the recalculation of pensions based on real internship with a coefficient of 1.35. In relation to the proposed above, Article 1 (1) (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. 1, para. 1, t. 1 is presented as follows in the tables that are currently being distributed to you. May I introduce them?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u192	Yeah, start with § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u193	Thank you. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is Art. 1. (1) It shall adopt the consolidated budget of state social security for revenue and transfers of a total of 15 566 455.5 thousand. BGN as follows in the table. (2) It shall adopt the consolidated budget of the State Social Security for the expenditure and transfers of a total amount of 15 566 455.5 thousand. BGN as follows in the table below. § 2. Article 2 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u194	I suggest paragraph by paragraph that we rethink, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u195	Yes, I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u196	They're in terms of terms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u197	No, Art. Three, I just missed the introduction.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u198	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u199	s (3) Adopts deficit (excess) under the Fund budget of the Fund of Pensions for the persons referred to in art. 69, as follows the table below.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u200	It's al. 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u201	It's al. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u202	Art. 1?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u204	My fellow Members, I'm voting like this... [[Noise and lines.]] You want to meet her, fine. Mr. Karimansky, explain again every number of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u205	I repeat again: Art. 1. (1) It shall adopt the consolidated budget of state social security for revenue and transfers of a total of 15 566 455.5 thousand. BGN, as follows, and is given the table, which is with revenue and transfers, everything first Roman. (2) It shall adopt the consolidated budget of the State Social Security for the expenditure and transfers of a total amount...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u206	What does this number mean that you read in para. 1, Mr. Karimansky, based on yesterday's amendments to the adopted three proposals?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u207	These are the changes proposed by the parliamentary group of the DPS, and the changes concern from 1 October to 31 December 2021, as well as the proposals for the measure for each addition to any child care allowance, i.e. up to 2 years, amounting to 650 BGN, which the MPs voted on. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u208	The minimum pension, as I suggested, is also reflected, but from the 25th, this is what I explained to her [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u209	What does December 25 mean? Why isn't it the 26th or the 24th?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u210	This is our proposal because it can cover exactly this period, which is at the end of this year and the beginning of next year. These are different budget years, but we are saying for this year what we are proposing, we are saying that for this year we are proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u211	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mrs. Yordanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 58, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I want 15 minutes rest on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Fifteen minutes of interruption at the request of the Democratic Bulgaria. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky, this has been revoked in the Rules of Procedure, and there is no such requirement anymore. [[Noise and lines.]] There are no old rules! Fifteen minutes off to get to know the numbers. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u214	Colleagues, we're moving on. I ask the President of the Budget and Finance Committee to report if any consensus has been reached, have they discussed the proposals. Mr. Karimansky, report on what the Commission has achieved in the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u215	My fellow Members, in the break, I called an extraordinary meeting of the Budget Committee to inform them of things.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u216	What things?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u217	The one I introduced you to before the break. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] What I read to you here under Art. 1, Art. 1. 1. Since we are all of the opinion that there should be an extraordinary meeting of the Budget Committee, which needs more time, from a longer time, I propose that the Budget Committee hold its extraordinary meeting today and, accordingly, after making decisions to report the outcome of this meeting to you. [[Replyes: When will you report?]] Tomorrow morning, because the Budget Committee still has to sit carefully, look at some tables that you asked for. That is why I suggest that we do it today, an extraordinary meeting of the Budget Committee, make a decision and report it tomorrow, so that everything will be normal and that you will be calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u218	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I mean, I understand that there's no readiness to continue with the IPO Budget Act. Mrs. Manolova, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u219	Madam President, honourable Members! While we're at it here, there's a protest in front of parliament for the second day. [[Noise and lines.]] Hundreds of people from the hotel, restaurant, tourist industry and transport companies are in front of parliament. The new restrictive measures are hitting them hard. [[Heckling]] The problem is that the expectation of both the tourist and the transport industry is that if there are restrictive measures, there should be immediate compensation. This is also our understanding that we have bet on in the budget update. Hopefully, we'll be watching it by the end of the week. Is there a closed business or a limited-time business...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u220	Mrs. Manolova, what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u221	...who will not be compensated.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u222	Mrs. Manolova, what is your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u223	My proposal is, since a meeting of the Budget Committee should be held anyway, the parliament should call for the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Baltova to inform about the measures to support the tourist industry of the establishments, restaurants, hotels. This is what the people in front of parliament want the issue to be put by the parliamentary tribune and the Minister of Tourism to answer questions from MPs from all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Manolova, let's not mix protests with what we do for two days and what I see is going to fail. Because you went to the protest, you saw how they treated you! [[Noise and lines.]] Let's not all of us get carried away! [[Noise, lines, cheering.]] Dear Mr. Karimansky, dear colleagues! Why were we able to lie to Bulgarian pensioners in just 24 hours? Yesterday, there was a report adopted on the second vote twice voted! [[Heckling]] Article 1, Art. 1, Art. 2, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, How many extraordinary committees must you do to deceive the Bulgarian pensioners who already know that they have 120 BGN, that they have 370 BGN. a minimum pension and that they have a recalculated pension? Is there no will in this room for at least 24 hours to happen? [[Noise and lines.]] My procedure is to continue to work on the DOA Bill, on the National Health Insurance Fund Bill, because today is Wednesday. You'll have to have a Budget Committee tomorrow. [[Heckling]] Well, that's why we have to do it today, not make extraordinary committees every day, because the end of this parliament has come. There's no point in slowing him down and making the agony even bigger. No one will forgive you both the lie and hypocrisy towards the Bulgarian pensioners if you change what we voted on yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u226	You're not gonna change anything, don't speculate!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u227	Mrs. Manolova, please don't replicate me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u228	You're telling lies!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u229	Mr. Svilensky, I understand you, you want to continue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u230	Come here and tell me I'm telling lies. Do not change what we voted on yesterday and do not change the deadlines that we voted on yesterday, because we are all responsible to Bulgarian citizens. Once we adopt the DEO and NHIF, let's also see what the protesters want, because the measures are in the other budget, which we should start seeing sometime within this week, because the next one will not have a parliament. What you are doing, honourable Members, is leaving the country without an updated budget. If this is the purpose of one of the parliamentary groups, let them come out and say it from this stand that they want in times of crisis...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u231	Mr. Svilensky, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u232	...to leave the state without money for the medics, without money for the tourist industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u233	Mr. Svilensky, I understand you want to continue on the agenda. Is there a reverse offer? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u234	Dear Madam President, what is going on here? A moment ago, Mr. Karimanski came out with one sheet and said: we propose to vote a third time what we voted yesterday twice. This just happened. Question: who are you, Mr. Karimansky asked for a break, then asked for coffee some people from the Budget Committee, then went to the meeting. The Budget Committee has now decided to suspend the meeting and the Budget Committee to meet overtime so that tomorrow, for the third time, we can vote on what we agreed yesterday. Suddenly, there was a date of December 25 to update pensions. Who suggested that date now tell me? Who suggested it? [[Noise and lines.]] You proposed and yesterday we accepted October 1st. We took it yesterday! Today is the 25th day, tomorrow you can offer January 15th?! What's happening right now in Parliament is that you're embarrassing yourself. I made you a prognosis last week that you were gonna get electrocuted. Now it happens that your electricity is shaking. There's one way to stop this from getting this wire out of the socket!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u235	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u236	Take it out because you are currently minimizing the work of the next regular government and one may not be made because of such decisions. Remember that the entire budget will also be viewed.. Imagine what will happen there. We're here with this little budget, which usually goes not so hard, we're blocked, and what happens on Friday? Nobody knows that at all. I repeat: we are currently taking the first step towards the financial crisis of the state. You are responsible for this and President Rumen Radev, who can submit all anti-crisis measures with a government decision. [[noise and lines]] Keep in mind 50 BGN. the pensioners were submitted by decision of the government, not by decision of the parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u237	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u238	All anti-crisis measures can make the government if we have a man president. We don't have one! [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u239	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mrs. Angelkova. Mr. Yordanov is after Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Manolova, did you just see that the tourist sector is protesting and that they want the measures to be implemented by the office? That's why they protest because the Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov has all heard his protégé, changed orders from morning to night, shuts down...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u241	Mrs. Angelkova, what is your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u242	It's the way it's supposed to be. They're closing down entire sectors...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u243	What is the specific violation in the manner of conduct? Mrs. Manolova, the Minister of Tourism is outside Sofia and is unable to attend the meeting, so this procedure will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u244	Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov should take responsibility and especially President Radev, who appointed this office because people protest to be able to implement the measures, to have adequate action by the office.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u245	Mrs. Angelkova, this is not the way to lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u246	I understand that you like it and when you see a protest, you should stick together immediately, but people need real action and measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u248	Madam President, in the manner of holding you allow speeches that are aside from the subject matter. For example, Mr. Bikov allowed himself to speak honest lies, given that yesterday GERB, BSP and DPS put the budget in this crappy version, in which they accepted three different things. [[Applause from IHN.]] The Budget Committee is currently trying to give you an elegant way out of the mess you've created yourself. Yes, Mr. Bikov, the state is going to a wall to which you strengthened it because you were incompetent and when you ruled, you were incompetent when you didn't rule. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS. Applause by IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u249	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you go, Mr. Manev. [[Relations from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] It was in the way of conduct, Mr. Bikov, so I don't know what you're going to make a personal explanation of. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u250	Mr. Yordanov, you don't understand the mess you're in because we're in opposition. [[Loud noise and lines from IHN.]] You're the ones you're wearing... [[IHN lines]] We're obviously opposed to the caretaker government he's proposing. Yesterday you were talking about engagements. [[Heckling]] And you guys had this marriage consummated before you got engaged, and you know damn well it! And you, Mrs. Manolova, are driving last days in parliament! Bless you! [[Scanding from ISN: "We're engaged, we're engaged!"]] Please be very quiet in this room. Mr. Manev and we're going through the program.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u251	Madam President, I have been able to tell you more than once from this tribune that when you drop the sleigh, it slips into the mud. You missed this meeting. You didn't, we all missed him in this room because of two things. The first thing Mr. Bikov said that you cannot understand which opposition is what. Here comes your representative and says: we are submitting a proposal on the budget of the caretaker government. When someone puts forward a proposal from a government for a budget, he is ruling, he is with this government. Everyone knows that. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The others go out and say, "We're here now, the protest, the people outside." Wait a minute, you also support this government, which has brought out people outside with inadequate politics, inadequate measures and inadequate decisions. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] This schizophrenia will continue and it will continue because every one of you, colleagues, who comes out of the stand of the government, supporting the President, the Presidential government, is thinking only of some elections. And when you think only of them, you start overreacting and going into bipolar disorder. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u252	Thank you, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u253	Pull yourself together, relax this thing where we do it here every day...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u254	We can't relax him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u255	...because we're going to get into even bigger and even more schizophrenic situations where there won't be any exits for the next parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u256	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Tsonev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u257	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest we calm the passions a little bit, but let's see. My procedure is to call off the meeting, to hold a Budget Committee, not because it is a mess with yesterday's vote, Mr. Yordanov, but because yesterday we stopped before the last paragraph when the Law and all the texts entered into force. There is no collision between the individual texts. We have the opportunity to choose between cumulative action of all texts and about 450 million additional deficits in the DVO, which must be financed by an additional transfer from the Budget Act, and there is nothing wrong with that. The point is to choose it, the question is to gather a little more than half and vote. However, in order to get to this procedure, we need to see the other options, because there are options for some of the things for which there is no time limit, and for others there are, to come into force later. Such proposals so far have not been made, except yesterday my editorial, which you rejected. So at this point, the best solution is to convene under the Rules of Procedure the Budget Commission, because it was not convened under the Rules of Procedure below, and I do not think that 40 people should be up to practice in procedural catch-ups here. I don't think you want that either. I propose that the procedure session be terminated, that we convene the Budget Committee.. to clarify which of the options is possible to be adopted, who wants the Budget Committee to be adopted. She should propose in an additional report, which has been made about 100 times in this Chamber so far, including on a proposal from Deputy Minister of Finance later and Minister Ananiev and GERB. An additional report is made, as the Budget Committee decides, and then whatever the House decides. No need for you and the pensioners, we... This pep talk and we can do it ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u258	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. For a reverse proposal, Mr. Cholakov, and we are going to vote on the procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u259	On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS Colleagues, as Mr. Svilenski said, we really voted yesterday for a cumulative increase in pensions from October 1st plus BGN 120. for the pensioners for the next three months. This is what we voted in two votes several times, and it is a fact. I don't know if you've been paying attention, colleagues, but today all the newspapers have their foreheads that this is a fact. From 1 October the pensions are increased and people will receive 120 leva. I really don't know what kind of eyes and who's going to be doing a third vote right now. Let's stop the sitting, let's make a Commission to turn this thing around tomorrow and vote on something else. Do you understand? The missionaries know that last night we voted on a separate issue, last night we voted on an increase in pensions from 1 October and 120 BGN. for the next three months. Don't play with people. Mr. Karimansky, please! It's for your own good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-08.u260	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. The proposals are in this direction and no one wants to take away those 120 leva. [[Applause from IHN.]] With regard to the return of the vote, there is a Constitutional Court Decision No 4 of 2018 with rapporteur Rumen Nenkov on precisely the state budget. I put to the vote Jordan Tsonev's procedural proposal to end today's plenary session. Vote 221 MPs: 129 against 86, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I'm adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
