ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will read to you the draft Work Programme of the National Assembly for 25 August 2021: "1." Draft Decisions on Changes to Permanent Committees Importer Desislava Atanasova on 19 August 2021 2. Draft decision on the release and election of the secretary of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly. Importer Desislava Atanasova. 3. Hearing of the Minister of Environment and Water on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the import, storage and recovery of domestic, hazardous waste and products thereof, as well as dealing with the problem of illegal landfills. Importers "Maya Manolova' and a group of MPs on 24 August 2021 4. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Committee on Budget and Finance. 5. Hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the procedures, the amount and method of financing of the project for the extension of the water ducts in Varna Lake, including the respective actions of the State-owned enterprise Importers. "Antoaneta Tsoneva and Ivaylo Mirchev on 24 August 2021. 6. First vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. Importer of the Council of Ministers, item one for Thursday 26 August 2021. 7. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Social Security Budget Act 2021. Importer of the Council of Ministers, point 2 for Thursday 26 August 2021. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. Importer "The Council of Ministers," item 3 for Thursday, 26 August 2021. 9. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. There is one proposal made on the grounds of art. 47, para. 3 from Maya Manolova. The proposal is inadmissible as the time limits have not expired. As I understand it, the Energy Committee will see the draft decision this week. This proposal is unacceptable and I will not allow it to vote. Any objections to the program? I put to the vote the proposed National Assembly Work Programme for this week. [[Noise and lines.]] It's not discussed in general. 200 MPs voted: 128, against 10, abstention 62. The motion is accepted. Mr. Gechev asked for the first word for procedure, let's hear it first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of our parliamentary group, I propose that we drop the point for the Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the Terms and Conditions for Offering Candidates to the Bulgarian National Bank and so on for the following reason: The election of a leadership of such a body implies a ruling majority, stable governance, calmness for the choice. Until we form a government, it's not right. There are other regulatory authorities that have expired their deadlines. This management of the Bank can perform its functions until we do our job. Thank you. [[Single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Atanasov, please come in for a procedure. It must have something to do with the program, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u4	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, we are making a very useful proposal. 5 of the weekly program. We can't agree here to elect a government, and we've begun to take part in the state authorities. So, by choosing a government, let this item then be on the agenda. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u5	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to drop the item. 4 - Draft decision for adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Governor of BNB. Point 4 is as the points. The point related to the selection of the manager of BNB are dislocated. They voted 205 MPs: 121, against 61, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Taffrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Within just a few days on the Ruse road, two serious human casualties occurred.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u7	Is that a statement, Mr. Tafrov? Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u8	On August 21st, a light car and a van collided in the area of Ruse's exit. Three people were injured, and the worst part is that a 5-year-old kid died. Just a few days before this severe disaster closed the road Ruse A heavy cargo truck with Russian registration was hit and a car with Russian registration also died male and female. Dear colleagues, recent tragic events have not been an isolated phenomenon. The statistics of recent years are ruthlessly clear. The Ruse Road is one of the most dangerous in the country. Despite the efforts of the Ministry of Interior with regard to road alarms, the organisation and control of road traffic in this area, the victims on the Ruse road are not decreasing. Especially bleak fame has acquired the poorly-designed circular movement in the town of Byala. The never-ending flow of heavy goods trucks crossing the Danube Bridge in both directions is additionally loading this road and making moving on it even more risky. It has long been clear that the only way to limit the unusually high mortality rate on this road is to build the Ruse highway. Its construction will have, of course, a positive effect on the investment and economic development of Ruse and Veliko Tarnovo region...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u9	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u10	...and all of Northern Bulgaria. "Democratic Bulgaria" insists on speeding up the design and construction of the future highway Ruse, which is expected to be ready only in 2027, after for years it has been falling away from the investment priorities of the previous governments. Inaction in front of abnormally high mortality rates on the Ruse road is becoming more intolerable than ever. The Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" urged all MPs to put an end to this scandal by doing what is necessary to speed up the construction of the highway Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo." Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tafrov. So let's start with item 1 of today's agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Environment and Water. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am proposing and proposing: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on the Environment and Water The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, al. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Todor Stamatov Todorov as a member of the Committee on Environment and Water. 2. He elected Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva as a member of the Committee on Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u13	Thank you. I see there's no one who wants to make a statement. Please, voting mode. Vote 181 MPs: 170, against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the next draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians outside the country. I point out that "outside the country" is to be replaced by "outside the country."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I fully accept your editing and suggest: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians outside the country The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, al. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Manoil Minchev Manev as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. 2. He elected Lachezar Bogoomilov Ivanov as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians outside the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u15	Thank you. Please, voting mode. Vote 184 MPs: 160 against 9, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Please provide the next draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Commission for the direct participation of births and interaction with civil society The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, al. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva as a member of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. 2. He elected Dimitar Ivanov Gechev as a member of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u17	Thank you. Please, voting mode. Vote 185 MPs: for 177, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please come in for the last Project Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, al. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Martin Petrov Andonov as a member of the Defence Committee. 2. He elected Todor Stamatov Todorov as a member of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u19	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode. Vote 179 MPs: 175, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. With this and this item on the agenda is exhausted. We're moving on to point 2 of the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO EXEMPTION AND SELECT THE SELECTOR OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importer Desislava Atanasova. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I present the draft decision for the release and election of the secretary of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Hristo Georgiev Gazhev as secretary of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly. 2. He elected Martin Petrov Andonov as Secretary of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u21	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode. Vote 181 MPs: 180, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this and this item on the agenda is exhausted. Moving on to: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND WATERS AOSEL PERSON ABOUT IMPORTS, HOW TO STORE AND ENFORCEMENT OF BITAL, DANGEROUS WASTES AND PRODUCTS OF THE SUCH, AND ASSETING THE PROBLEM WITH THE DEFINITELY ACCOUNTS. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. Please invite the Minister. [[Definitions for off microphones.]] Colleagues, the minister is on his way if you want a 10-minute break? [[Noise and lines.]] Let's wait for him. He hasn't come yet. [[Noise and lines.]] The next item is a hearing again. [[Noise and lines.]] At least I can give it a rest now. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, take 10 minutes off until the minister moves to the National Assembly building. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u22	Good afternoon, Minister. We'll start with... You are welcome for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Within the term of the previous management, a number of measures were taken and implemented which helped the Bulgarian business to deal with the crisis caused by COVID-19 and were preserved over 300 thousand. jobs. The tourism sector and in particular the Hotels and Restaurants, as well as the transport sector, were purposefully supported by targeted funds and programmes, the most popular of which were 80/20, 75/0, within which the state assumed a high percentage of the insurance income, including a percentage of the employees' and employees' contributions. So with an investment of nearly 200 million. lv. More than 50,000 were preserved. jobs. Moreover, a special measure was created to support the fixed costs of companies for which nearly 8000 companies with over 10,000 sites received 140 million. lv. as a percentage of turnover to support their liquidity over the time they were forbidden to work. For better or worse, the office has not adopted or implemented various or more successful measures to support the tourism sector. We'd love to do it and we'd be the first to congratulate them, but that didn't happen. Moreover, there have been no targeted measures for the Bulgarian business for more than a month and a half. In fact, tourism was abandoned by support, and it was just during the summer season, and for the winter... by the government, there is not a word. The only measure that operates is 60/40, under conditions of 40% decrease in turnover, which means that companies must either have either gone bankrupt or before bankruptcy in order to benefit from the Programme. Almost a third of the contracts of the employees in hotels and restaurants came to light because of the measures we took. But now, in a complete lack of state support and under conditions that are almost impossible to implement, many employers are returning to old practices to secure a minimum wage or not to secure their workers, or if you want to hide their turnovers in order to be able to benefit from the Programme. Chaotic anti-epidemic measures, lack of elementary predictability and no protection brought the industry in stupor and in a desire to strike. Here I appeal to the office: do not sacrifice the industry because he has dared to talk about protest. He needs support measures today and now, because tomorrow will surely be too late. Among the MPs in this hall are professors, macroeconomicists and financiers. I call on you: to understand, to understand the situation in which the tourist sector has been forced to function since the beginning of the pandemic! Moreover, we at GERB-SDS say it not just to provoke a discussion, but to pay attention to this extremely important industry. Just turn around and look at the analyses of the World Organisation for Tourism at the UN, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, it is clearly stated that the sector does not expect its recovery before 2023. Our cabinet's task was to provide vital support to the industry in order to overcome the crisis. It is your job to simply continue these efforts without turning your back on them. In the proposed by the caretaker government an update of the state budget is laid down 430 million. lv. for business measures, but again only for the measure 60/40, whose new conditions are still not very clear. There is no targeted support for tourism BGN, but there are no clear reasons why no other sector in the economic activities in the country is planned to receive targeted funds. It is not foreseen or at least from the proposal for an update it is not clear to provide funds for the fixed costs of the business, which is yet another blow to the sectors most severely affected by the pandemic. The ever-growing number of newly infected hospitals from COVID-19 creates strong pressure on the health system, which is increasing for hours. It is only a matter of time before measures are imposed under the pressure of the pandemic to limit the free business, especially in the tourism sectors, in particular hotels and restaurants. Employers, workers and employees in these sectors urgently need support. We from GERB-SDS parliamentary group insist on the immediate continuation of measures to support the insurance income of workers in tourism, as well as the continuation of measures to cover fixed costs of companies. This needs to be reflected in the forthcoming state budget update, and as soon as possible. We also demand that 9% of VAT be extended for goods and services that expire on 31 December this year. The reasons for its introduction were related to restoring some sectors that were severely affected by the pandemic, such as the restaurant industry and others. In practice, due to a number of restrictions in activity, business cannot benefit from the reduced rate, while the current development of the pandemic clearly shows that we are still far from restoring the economic levels before the crisis. Honourable Members, the budgetary procedure related to the update has started. The subject, concerning the tourism industry, does not tolerate any delay, does not tolerate political accounts, as well as political appropriateness, it is simply a responsibility to citizens and businesses. We know that at the moment your attention is rather focused on the service of the third term, but I will again call you for reason and a sober assessment precisely because of the responsibility to the citizens. And let us not forget that it all begins with the citizens and ends with them. They trusted us, so we need to be responsible. Show her your responsibility! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u24	Thank you. We'll start with the hearing. Mrs. Manolova, are you going to make a statement on matters? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u25	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In recent years, the import of waste and waste into Bulgaria for storage and treatment has increased many times. In practice, during the period 2011 - 2017 according to official data of The situation for the first five months of 2021 is even more tragic because the imported waste reaches 163 thousand. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. tonnes on an annual basis of waste imports. It is also worrying that 14 431 tonnes of imported waste are dangerous. In other words, Bulgaria has gradually become a landfill of both Europe and the world, a country where huge quantities of waste are imported, which unfortunately are not stored, and even less are treated properly so as not to endanger the health of Bulgarian citizens. In 2020, there was a big scandal with the import of Italian trash, then fired, suspended sentence for the head of RIEW, arrests, but the case went dead. Unfortunately, the thousands of tons of trash imported from Italy continue to stand piled up in both the "Bobov dol" and Pleven, without the possibility of taking action to remove them. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We are coming! we are following this topic continuously and the worry of Bulgarian citizens from the burying of a number of settlements, riverbeds and various industrial sites with garbage. The bad news is that real waste burning and air pollution have become a trade, a profitable business from which companies close to power earn well, and the threat to health and life in impossible conditions with dirty air is for Bulgarian citizens. In fact, this is also the explanation why Bulgaria is one of the countries with the dirtiest air and why a criminal procedure is being conducted against Bulgaria for non-compliance with the European rules on air quality and especially for the level of fine particulate matter. What's more, 150,000. people in 10 years, or 15,000 on an annual basis, according to official data, are dying and losing both health and their lives because of diseases that are associated with the dirty air that we breathe. This might not have been such a problem if the rules and norms were respected, but the rules and regulations and the treatment of garbage imports are for the citizens for the companies, for the business close to power, the law is a door in the field that can be violated. According to the Ministry, in addition to the import of waste from the European Union, garbage from third countries are imported into Bulgaria, including Albania, Switzerland, northern Macedonia, Serbia, Great Britain, China, Saudi Arabia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Singapore, Turkey, Norway, Lebanon, Ukraine, Qatar. A major problem with the treatment of imported waste is the fact that it is burned in plants where there are insufficient conditions for the purification of harmful substances. In practice, harmful gases and toxic compounds, there is no guarantee, mechanisms and installations through which to prevent them from passing into the air and hence the damage caused to the health of Bulgarian citizens. It is also about carbon monoxide and hydrochloric, sulphur and nitrogen oxides, toxic metal compounds, carcinogenic substances. Heat plants simply do not have installations necessary to purify these substances after the burning of waste. Besides the construction of a hazardous waste incineration plant in Peshtera, imagine, there is an installation in the city center that burns hazardous waste, and there is also a landfill for hazardous waste. We are all witnessing the concerns of the population of the gassing of Bobovdol municipality and Sliven because of the burning of garbage. Now with concern we are also watching the intention of Sofia Municipality to build a waste burning installation literally in the center of Sofia, 3 km away. "Moskovska" from Mayor Fandakova's office, in violation of any requirements for the use of such industrial facilities. Literally against the garbage burning plant rise up...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u26	Mrs. Manolova, your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u27	...residential buildings that are currently being built and fine dust particles that will annually produce this junk burning plant are in parameters about 9 tonnes per year, plus 9 tons of fine dust particles in Sofia because of...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u28	Mrs. Manolova, your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u29	...the intention of Sofia Municipality to build this garbage factory. In fact, the public procurement has been finalised and there, as well as in all the favorite boxes of previous management, have been translated already 60 million. lv. advance to the company to build this trash burning installation. My question to the Minister is: what measures does the Ministry of Environment and Water take?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u30	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please inform the National Assembly. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Dear Mrs. Manolova, you, as a lawyer, have skillfully juggled with terms that are waste and junk. I would object, because under the 2012 Waste Management Act, junk does not exist. This is just a hyperbola that can apply to both physical and legal persons and objects. Nevertheless, the subject that Mrs. Manolova raises is extremely important. She's a national problem. If we have to talk about her, I won't have the whole term. That is why I would like to introduce you to the legal situation at the moment and where it came from. In 2012, Parliament adopted the Waste Management Act, which fully transposes European legislation, where waste generation operators are responsible outside the municipal and municipal mayors responsible for municipal and construction waste generated on the territory of the municipality. Somehow back then, the country itself had deserted with this law. Instantly since 2012 113 dumps are illegal because they don't meet the requirements of the new law. Shortly thereafter, the European Commission imposes a penalty on us, which requires that by the end of 2020 these depots are closed and reclaimed. Governments' efforts during this period are linked to the fact that at the end of 2017, these 113 depots were closed, however, not recultivated. For this reason, the Commission had somehow given us an extended period until 30 June to carry out this type of activity. For the reason of the State which had provided funds for the municipalities of the PPOOS, but only for closure, in 2019 a small panic was created, i.e. it is 5.6 months, 7.8 before the deadline expires, and the financing of the remaining landfills, which are 43, is transferred to the OPOs. In any case, the time limit itself for the conclusion of contracts under the contract for the implementation of the projects triggers a delay within the time limits of the directive itself. At the moment 43 municipal depots are not closed and we are facing a penalty procedure that will be more salty than air. The same law, as the 2005 European Union Regulation on the free movement of waste, I would call it more popular, which regulates a broker and trader, where it is evident that it is not aimed at the impact of waste at all, but rather at commercial activity, and we, as a Member, give the official reason to start importing and exporting waste, including from third countries, and to use it first and foremost for trade. Here I want to make a big difference that one part of the waste that is imported, even the bigger part, are raw materials that serve the Bulgarian industry to produce an overpriced value, but another part of the waste, such as this waste with a code 19 12 12, is for criminal and commercial profit, because, as far as I know, 300 euros receives the recipient from the one that imports per tonne, while in Bulgaria municipalities offer 30 So what happens now? I say the macrorama we annually generate about 3 million household waste, 1 million of them are waste of the character of 19 12 12 No one pays attention to them and the municipalities have big problems where to store them. It is true that municipalities are also guilty because the separation of these waste is not enough to get enough calories to become a real fuel for the TPPs, but this is a national problem that I have tried to regulate in the short period I am there. At the same time, when Turkey stopped 11 trucks of waste on the border with Bulgaria, it was not a member of the European Union, I wanted to take a reciprocal measure and I wanted to ban imports from Turkey. Turns out I don't have a legal basis for this. It is paradoxical, honourable MPs, to decide on the import of waste by one official, one director and one deputy minister by signing a notification and forbade the import of waste from one minister, even from the Council of Ministers. So what did the government do? The government has adopted a National Waste Management Plan 2021 - 2030, which gives legal basis to take measures by decision of the Council of Ministers to ban imports of the worst waste, I would say it is mixed waste because it is neither for combustion but only for disposal. But when I explained to you what the national problem is, imagine the healthy thinking and the care for the environment what it is like to clean up other countries in order to depopulate, for example, new waste in our country. I was gonna say trash, 'cause they really are crap to me. That's what's coming. Perhaps next week the Council of Ministers will adopt a decision prohibiting the import of this kind of waste. But it is paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, that the business immediately jumped against it and said that this waste was essential, mainly the thermal plants, to do the technological work. I asked them: it was good that we have a million tons of municipal waste in stock in Bulgaria, with nine million tons in Pleven at the site of Pleven, resource 19 12 12, 218 tonnes we have somewhere around the sites of TPP Bobov dol. Why don't you burn them? And they say they're not fit to burn because they're mixed, and then they don't want us to ban waste. Although the Waste Management Act was corrected at the beginning of 2012, where the basic principle, which we should strive for, is simply said: to generate less waste and to recycle more waste. One of the objectives of this plan is for Bulgaria to reach 55% recycling in 2026, which will equalize us to the average percentage of the European Union. Do I still have time, or...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u32	You do. I'll warn you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u33	Thank you. In this regard, it was particularly interesting that one was provoked by Mrs. Manolova: how did the import of the waste of the Ndranges begin? How? Turns out he was prepared long before it was realized. In 2016, the Ministry of Environment and Water authorised the TPP to burn 19 12 12. I ask myself, how did they have such waste that they were interested? Because one such interest is related to commercial... You do realize that the power plant will never say, "Well, I'll take the waste for free." Rasgele, they didn't realize this experience. The other one has been given to the "Brickel" and I also don't know where they had waste, and from there the door for the next criminal import is practically opened, which even yesterday we learned from publications from the "Free Europe" that there were about 80 thousand tonnes of illegally imported waste burned on the territory of the country. I ask myself the following question, not only to myself, but also to you: after the operators have paid 300 euros per tonne to burn them, does electricity and heating get cheaper from this? I'm just asking the question. Have the KEWR explain it to me. After burning them, they practically use raw material that has negative cost, right? I'm asking questions that are absolutely unknown. What does that lead to? It leads that only personal gain and private interest have led to this, first, illegal, then notifications are issued to 4.. 5 companies, which are currently limited only to notifications of cement plants, others are not allowed to burn 19 12 12, but evil is done. Because the government repeatedly refused, however, because it says: "You have legally imported them, and refused. This problem remains to stand. I would love an operator of those who are against the ban on imports of 19 12 12, on his own account to take it and burn it. Isn't that right? So they can convince me that we shouldn't ban 19 12 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u34	Your time, Mr. Lichev. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u35	It expired a long time ago. [[(Laughter) Awesome.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u36	You'll be able to answer questions. We move on to questions from the parliamentary groups. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have two brief questions. You tried to answer them in advance by asking them to us. My questions are as follows: Is the vicious practice of importing waste 19 12 10 to date and how is the actual content of incoming cargo controlled? Is it true the leak in the media that we import hospital waste from third countries, and if so, how are they transported, where are they deposited, where are they burned? How many funds for ecology have been set aside by the owners of TPPs that burn waste in their unsuitable furnaces, and how many checks have you done at your time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u38	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u39	And thank you for the questions. The checks for this short period were few but meaningful. In this regard, Pleven has also been issued a forced administrative measure to destroy the waste on its own account because, when it imported about 10 thousand tonnes of 300 euros per tonne, it received 3 million. Euros. Isn't that how it works on a simple account? The same one was made for 218 tons at the TPP site. Again, I specify that it is on the site of the TPP - Bobov dol. But it is not the company of the TPP - Bobov dol. Otherwise, we have not affected a large group of landfills, and these are the so-called illegal depots for which the mayors are generally responsible, but these are all of the ones you see made in my day 114 checks, issued 7 acts of mayors. These are just what are called illegal depots. Some are proverbial, one of which is the depot of Veliko Tarnovo, it is a proverbial one, despite everything there, a large district town, this issue will not solve it since 2015. Were those the questions you asked me? [[Reply of National Representative Georgi Popov.]] Firstly, for hospital waste, they really do not fall within the prerogative of the Ministry of Environment and Water, to tell you. And how the content is controlled, I'll tell you a very interesting way. Some companies can make their own accredited laboratories, they can also make their own verification laboratories. [[Replications of the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] No, because it's in the field of the State Agency for Standardization, what's it called?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u40	And metrology.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u41	They said it was most legal. I think there's a foundation here for corruption...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u42	At the Commission meeting...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u43	At the meeting of Mrs. Manolova's Commission, yes. Here, in particular, I see that the legal framework is not specified, so as to ensure. It's to tell you how it's controlled. This is also very interesting. The accreditation and samples shall be made on the fuel, i.e. on the waste to be burned. They do not relate to emissions emitted during combustion. It's a completely different kind of control. In practice, accreditation does not provide the purity of the environment, but provides what quality of fuel is used, which is verified by these related companies and by calculation is claimed what emissions could be generated. So this process for me is not clear and regulated. Are you satisfied with that answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u44	Are there any investments made?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u45	That's a difficult question for me to say. They're all private companies. In principle, when something is given to a concession or a contract is made by a good owner, at least 10% of the initial investment is allocated to the environment. But I have no idea here to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Lichev! The theme of waste imports is particularly sensitive to society. In recent years, legislation has changed several times by introducing much stricter requirements for commercial entities operating with waste. The cross-border transport of waste is regulated in the Waste Management Act, strictly complying with the provisions of Regulation EC No 1013/2006. On your inauguration, Mr. Minister, you and a huge aplomb said that you would stop the imports of waste into Bulgaria from third countries, quoting: I don't care if it affects business interests at all. There is no political power or mafia structure above me to dictate to me. After that, however, your speech did not follow any action. What changed then, and what stopped you? Moreover, at the beginning of August you once again declared that you would ban the import of waste intended for disposal or combustion. What action have you taken in this direction, and why has there been no development in the case at present? What does the Ministry do to limit the import of waste? Finally, I can't stand by Mrs. Manolova's suggestion that she made from the stands for an installation for the burning of waste in Sofia. There is also an active installation in the centre of Vienna. I would like to tell you that the installation will be built in accordance with all legislative European and national laws and regulations. After all, all requirements for the waste incineration and treatment system are at the highest level.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u48	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u49	Madam President, let me remove the address so I can shorten the time. I like that question very much. At the beginning, when I was in charge, I said it was paradoxical that a director, a deputy minister, a clerk would authorise imports by giving notifications, but that the Law and the regulation did not allow the minister to prohibit them at all. So I keep my word and I work on purpose and next week you will see the decision of the Council of Ministers. And regarding your line to Mrs. Manolova, I can't answer on her behalf.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Welcome from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In fact, Minister, you are facing a systemic problem that is not your fault, but the solution in the direction of ban may sound sweet, but it is a populist approach, because it does not conflict with business interests, but with fundamental European principles. The importer's words that 400,000. tons of waste were imported and burned in Bulgaria, and they do not correspond to the truth, and most of it is raw materials for the industry. However, there is mixed household waste, it is burned and it represents a risk and damage to health and the environment. However, to solve this problem, we need systemic reform. Because, Minister, I claim it and I sign under this, you have no idea what the waste streams inside your own country are, because the Bulgarian waste management system rests on fraud. The achieved levels of recycling are virtual. The achieved levels of recycling of rubber, oils, hazardous waste are above the average European and that, I say, is an absolute farce. You can't know what comes from Europe and third countries when you don't know what is recycled in Bulgaria, because the Bulgarian system allows one waste to be written as another waste and so on. People and experts familiar with waste recycling processes know exactly what I'm talking about. So, Minister, reform and changes are needed. Exactly such changes and measures were proposed in the 44th Parliament during the crisis with imports of the Italian trash from BSP, bank guarantees, concrete measures for brokers and traders, where the problem is, electronic registers and so on. The bill received support from all parliamentary groups, including your ministry, was discussed with the expert community, a broad public discussion adopted at first reading, not adopted at second reading. For objective reasons, the meeting ended. My question relates precisely to this bill, for which, by the way, I am looking for the softest word, was stolen, copied, plagiarized by Mrs. Manolova and submitted to the 45th National Assembly in a slightly mutilated version, but the only ones who reacted adequately then are the BSP group. Minister, are you familiar with this bill and are you going to make these changes that will really bring transparency into the system, give control to the Ministry and limit imports of mixed household waste from third countries, from Europe, but not along the path of populism? Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u52	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u53	And thank you for these questions. I can't help but be glad that you're using me as a conduit to Mrs. Manolova, which I like, but maybe you should contact her directly in the break. Otherwise you are absolutely right: there is no state policy regarding the problem of waste generated on the territory of Bulgaria. I tried to make an experience with the National Association and we discussed with them all the problems related to waste. And there's a lot of them. One of the main problems, he is including tax. However, the municipalities have money from garbage taxis, which are only allowed for waste collection and disposal. They cannot invest from them either in landfills or take security to prevent illegal waste and so on. There is no state policy in relation to anything else either. Waste in Bulgaria, which remains for combustion, is left in the hands of private companies. You all know that. Where is the state policy, which at least says that in South and Northern Bulgaria will be built an installation for burning Bulgarian waste? Secondly, with regard to the fact that you doubt the credibility of the facts repeatedly of this tribune, including the grandstand of the committees, I am surprised that no one recognizes the data of statistics. I, as a minister of service and a former civil servant to me, are only the official figures. I suspect they may not be real, but tell me, what can I do in three months? I tried, and you'll see it on the Ministry website every day you get information about what waste imports have entered, and it's not an accident. This is compatible with the Customs system, where each waste by code is monitored by GPS. The disadvantage here is that when it arrives at the host of the waste, it stops its report and it can already be... for example someone imports some waste, can resold it, move it and so on. All the laws that have been introduced to the regular government and have been supported by the Ministry of Environment and Water, I also support them because I am a person who believes that there should be continuity and sustainability. What have I done in this regard? I have written a letter to the Prime Minister that all laws relating to the environment and to criminal procedures and were in the National Assembly must be re-subscribed by this Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u55	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Lichev! Among the most serious problems in Pernik, and not only is the dirty air. We there have a thermal power plant whose waste is deposited in a storage facility, which has been causing serious problems over the years. Last year his dike was torn, RIEW was constantly doing checks and giving prescriptions with which he insisted on his reclamation. At present, we are informed from the Pernik municipality's website that an investment proposal has been initiated to reconstruct this depot. I would like to ask, if there were a delay, would you have had the opportunity to impose measures to speed up the process of reconstructing this depot? Since it is currently overcrowded, is there any other place to dispose of the waste from the thermal power plant, while the new one is being built, as it creates risks to people's health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u57	And thank you for the question. There is also a legislative gap here that is very serious and you are opening up a... One is household and construction waste, the other is from the mining industry and the energy industry. They remain in some white legislative stain. For example, if you heard me and none of you asked about the waste from the mining industry, the mining, the mines, and they have flooded the state. You don't know if you can see them. If anyone has gone to the Meadet, they will see that there is a sea in the stove, and there are about 60 million people around. tons of stones. Everyone would ask the question: why are these stones not used as pavement for highways, as construction material, but stand there to pollute the surrounding area and especially the Medetska River, which, by pouring into Topolnitsa, produces foam? You can see that every day. But that's another question. I told you I wouldn't have the whole term. Of course we will cooperate with what we can with the mayor of Pernik, but how do we, when the TPP is a legal, commercial person, cooperate with him? I ask if he has introduced a reclamation project, we will coordinate it as quickly as possible if it meets environmental requirements. As far as I know, the reclamation projects are going through a very relaxed EPA procedure, right, if I'm not mistaken, and that's why, and how can I guarantee you that I can find a new depot on Pernik's territory? We'll cooperate if necessary. Please ask the mayor to address me in writing for assistance, I can send him experts to consult, but I can't do this job, and I don't have such powers by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chakarov, please come in from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lichev, with all due respect to you and your sense of humor and humor, we have listened very carefully to you about the activities of the Ministry of Environment and Water in the field of waste. I would like to tell you that it is undoubtedly an important topic, and we have seen what the position of the Ministry of Environment and Water is, and I would just like to remind you and ask you. With great enthusiasm, after first transposition of European legislation into our legislation in the period 2001 - 2005, the separate collection system was launched in the period 2005 - 2009, and an information campaign was launched. Naturally, in such a short period of time can be achieved, there were first results and motivation for people to separate waste. After this, however, after 2009, this process was literally blocked, the people were demotivated because it was seen that the commitments made were not fulfilled by entities that should rather carry out the separation organisation, then there is a very serious regression in this respect today, if there is a real waste collection, as you pointed out that nearly 1 million tonnes of waste by one-some code would not repeat it here, would not be in these parameters. In other words, most of these waste would go to recycling, a small part to be used and most importantly, would not go to landfills for waste or for incineration. First this. My question is: what is the position, the vision of the Ministry of Environment and Water in this case and, secondly, you pointed here and Mrs. Maya Manolova also that they are burned out of control? This should not be allowed to burn uncontrollably waste in the thermal plants or where they are burned in the respective combustion plants. All legislation requirements must be complied with. Not only does there, a colleague from GERB, a waste installation that operates and which burns waste at the centre of Vienna, I have visited this plant, and it appears that there is no harmful effect. In the same way, the burning must be carried out, but there must be an objective, correct approach, the Ministry to perform its functions and all competent authorities, so that both the TPP Maritsa East 2 And what kind of waste is being imported? Colleagues, I would like to remind the Minister that in the Waste Management Act, the Minister has the right and obligation to notify the imports of the waste concerned or an authorised person by him. Mr. Minister, we cannot accept, as you have pointed out, that some clerk decides. The clerk doesn't decide. The clerk performs what is within the law. The duties that have been replaced, the rights and responsibilities are the Minister's and, respectively, the person empowered by him. So my question is............................... not only by the customs authorities......................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u60	Mr. Chakarov, you've doubled your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u61	I'm finished, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u62	You've doubled your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u63	...and Bulgaria, the new member states not to be the backyard of Europe, said not to let this happen and we all have to work not to. In the interests of business, what can be done is to act, and what is being done must be under the dictatorship of the law. The law must be respected and this must be implemented very strictly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u65	Dear Mr. Chakarov, because you know, you are asking me a question which is clear to you my answer. So, in the very law of transposition of all European requirements, and perhaps their implementation, there is a setback of the system. At the moment, six thousand companies are licensed to collect and transport, for which you can conclude how control is done. You are absolutely right that separate collection is the only correct path to a circular economy, to generate less waste for disposal, to generate recycled raw materials. You're absolutely right! What did I do? I asked Deputy Minister Reneta Koleva to first meet with the associations of these six thousand, they have some association, and to find a way to legally reduce them or make them fulfil their real obligations under the Waste Management Act, because in many cases they are intermediaries, intermediaries who only benefit from this type of activity. Regarding the separate assembly, however, I must tell you that the main responsibility is the mayor of the municipality and you know that very well. Always in these years, the control of the mayors has reached the level of the political curtain. So for the three months that I have served at the Ministry, I have done what I can in terms of swearing by the Constitution and I believe that law is state law of the state. I also share the same opinion, and at first I said this, in response to the previous question, that there is no state policy. And I have been to Germany, and I took part in a seminar with the German-Bulgarian Industrial Chamber, which surprised me that the majority of waste in Germany is being burned, a special system has been made for this. Indeed, the installations are not in the settlements. They are somewhere where within a 70-mile radius they can rob and treat waste, the municipalities also burn almost all the sludges from the treatment plants that it is, but now we are talking about another standard and about another understanding. I'm giving you an example from September 1st we should introduce no plastic bag, so listen to me, you know that? Turn to the foreign chains of Liddell, Kaufland, who was the rest of me not to report it to her, do they intend to take out the plastic bags from September 1st?! So with us, as we are different from the economic standard, so we are different from the understanding. For now, we are not only behind in many indicators, which we should be able to obtain, but we are also behind in the environmental consciousness and not only of the citizens, I do not blame them, but of the government, including myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u66	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Come on in, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u67	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I understand your inability to ban the import of waste from one of the neighbouring countries and the Law, which is done in BG! We're coming! "Sent into parliament will give you this opportunity with regard to the import of waste from third countries. Yes, we are proposing a ban on imports of waste from third countries, something that Mr. Bojankov does not offer in his law. We wrote our law after public discussions and after supporting the people of Shumen, from Popovo, from Devnya, from Peshtera, from Stara Zagora, from Batak, from Varna, from Sevlievo, from Varvara, from Septemvri Municipality, we were there, we saw their problems and supported them. We prepared and presented our bill months before Mr. Bojankov introduced his. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But perhaps because none of us are in conflict of interest and there is no business related to waste recovery, so we are proposing a ban on imports from third countries. And something else. We propose to remove the principle of silent consent when solving activities with junk. Can you imagine, this is the only business that can be started under the conditions of silent consent? To cover your terrace, to open a hair salon you must wait for months and years, but to start working with junk, no explicit permission is necessary...................................................................................is acting on silent consent, but Mr. Bojankov is not proposing to drop this principle, and to ban imports from third parties. Perhaps the answer is in this: is the author of his law interested in the treatment and import of waste? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u68	Mrs. Manolova, aren't we here at the Minister's hearing? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u69	I asked if it supports the Law, which prohibits the import of waste from third countries? Is the principle of silent consent right to facilitate companies that work with waste?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I have noted that we are still in a hearing, not in a discussion of bills. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u71	Otherwise, I'm sure! Isn't that what I said was missing? Certainly, as long as you can do it. Because the limitations of European directives on the so-called freedom of movement of goods, including waste, are great. Here comes the commissioner who is responsible for the free movement of waste last month. He may have, challenged by my words, come to promise us that we do not need any restrictive measures to impose on the territory of Bulgaria, but I support any legislation that would enable Bulgaria to deal with its own waste first, and then to think about commercial interests and cleaning of neighbouring countries. I am also in favour of having a new system of waste collection and waste maintenance, of having a stricter licensing regime that requires criteria for evaluation and withdrawal of the licence. There's no such thing. With regard to imports, it is the same as with regard to concessions and the Law on concessions, when a concession is granted, for example, rock-covering materials in Kardzhali, I ask the Minister of Energy: Is there a commercial study, is there a need for our industry of rock-covering materials to be able to destroy that mountain in Kardzhali?................................................................... So, this is for exports to Turkey and Greece... Is this the way we use the natural wealth and waste of foreign countries too? If there is an import permit for a company, a survey must first be carried out inside. If there is a commercial interest, how this waste will be safely used and then a notification should be given to it. There's no such thing. I asked. It's not regulated right now. I fully support any National Assembly if it takes to improve the legal framework in this direction, without taking a side who is an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bojankov, what procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u73	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u74	What personal explanation to whom? [[Noise and lines.]] She mentioned your name, Mr. Bojankov, but the Rules are adamant: in speech. Mrs. Manolova is in the hypothesis of asking a question in a hearing. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u75	Madam President, my procedure is directed to you because you did not notice that Mrs. Maya Manolova lied quite harshly that her bill had been submitted before the BSP. I'm telling BSP because I didn't import a bill, and it belongs to the BSP parliamentary group. It was introduced to the forty-fourth parliament when Mrs. Manolova was filming a life while we were putting in action against this ugly phenomenon here, and then she was gaining ratings to get into the meeting. But it's not a one-time thing. She stole a couple of social bills, pensions, child benefits...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u76	Mr. Bojankov, you started qualifying!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u77	Mrs. Manolova is a criminal in this regard. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u78	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Please come in the manner of conduct, because I must not have interrupted Mr. Bojankov in his qualifications. Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u79	Madam President, I ask that, when there are speeches from the stands, you invite speakers to declare whether they have a personal conflict of interest on the subject they are speaking about or of persons associated with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u80	More like a private interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u81	Private interest. The theme of waste management is important. It is important for all Bulgarian citizens and if Mr. Bojankov has any personal interests or persons with interests related to it, it is good to know them in order to credit with confidence his speech or not. And on the issue of the authorship of laws and on the question of who tabled laws and when proposed yes, Mrs. Manolova has proposed laws related to waste and everything else and as an MP in the Forty-fiveth National Assembly and as an ombudsman, long before that. But if we continue with the authors, in the end the BSP will claim authorship and the Party House and they will want to go back there, they will claim authorship for both the Council of Ministers and everything else. So, please, let's get back to the subject and cut to the chase.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u82	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. I invite all Members of the National Assembly to observe art. 144 of the Rules on the declaration of private interest and I hope that the Commission's subcommittee on constitutional and legal issues will watch over this. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Procedure in the manner of conduct. I definitely don't have a private or any interest in the subject. The issue is another, and we would not be discussing it at the moment and there would be n in number of procedures in the way of conduct if you had followed the Rules of Procedure, namely: not to allow a question concerning the legislative part of the work of the National Assembly, because the question was de facto a request of an opinion on a bill which was not allowed under the Rules. We had to stick to the current policies recorded in the hearing. If you hadn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u84	I made a remark to Mrs. Manolova, Mr. Gazhev. I think I followed procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u85	At the moment when it comes to issues of legislation and legislation tabled, it is logical for importers to decide, so it should not have been allowed at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u86	I see that this is a sensitive topic, so I hope Mr. Bojankov and Mrs. Manolova will agree in the couloirs. Are you in the same way as I am? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u87	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. My request to you is that you do not allow any suggestion from this tribune! Do not allow any suggestion from this tribune that anyone has or does not have a conflict of interest! In the Rules is clearly written and I hope my colleagues from.. Straighten up БГ! We are coming!.. Within a month and a half to have learned the Rules. It says when and how this private interest is declared and every member of parliament, coming out on this stand, does it or does it not, if there is none. So you have no right to accuse a fellow Member of the National Assembly of whether or not there is. If he thought he did, he would have declared it, and if he didn't declare it, then there's no private interest. If you have a claim to this, there is a corresponding order, not from the stand, to make suggestions. That Mr. Bojankov is an expert on a subject, not necessarily and not always in conflict of interest. God forbid that more Members of the National Assembly in this House of Experts on the specific topics should speak out of this tribune and not experts on everything to take relations from the stands without ultimately being specialists at anything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. That's why I think I paid attention to the MPs. We'll continue with the second questions. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, according to recent data about 1500 illegal landfills and about 500 local pollutions have been found on the territory of the country, mainly from construction and household waste, including dangerous ones, in unregulated areas. This is especially clearly seen in the summer season because the resort cities and settlements are crowded with household waste, which is very bad for the country's image. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question is: how many acts have been drawn up to establish administrative violations, have criminal decrees been issued, what administrative measures has the Ministry of Environment and Water taken and how is it held responsible in the structures of your administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u90	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u91	It's a very important question. A few questions ago, I almost answered him. 113 inquiries were made, 17 were issued, seven mayors were fined with up to BGN 5000, but this does not solve the issue at all. Because this is the responsibility of municipalities, especially in smaller municipalities, where the population ranks great, where taxpayers are missing, and the problems remain, the more and more are the routes of waste collection and waste disposal, the control is getting smaller and smaller. I am of the opinion that since 2001, the econ had to be forced. I am of the opinion that the only aid that can prove to be real to overcome this problem is creating something like an ecopolitic which, as well as a municipal one, can only deal with this. This is not only about waste and illegal landfills, it is about the pollution of rivers, it is about the logging of forests. The functions of the Ministry of Interior, which is called upon to fight this, you know that they are virtually unable to perform at the moment because they believe they have many other priority tasks. So this is a national problem. I'm telling you what I've done in three months. Maybe before that the numbers are bigger, but the effects are almost none, because the mayor's fine doesn't give him a financial source to go pick up the junk now that they're junk, put them in some regulated depot, transport them, doesn't give him the right to find and make a regulated depot, because he has the right to a landfill for construction waste, but there's no money. I have told you that this is a matter of the National Assembly........................................................................................................................................................... Municipalities must have a financial instrument and mayors should be able to set up a regulated depot within the municipality so that the law can then fall on them with all its power. Where do I send the RIEW employees today? Choose one community. You said 1,500. The municipalities, for example, are 500 of the smallest municipalities. 240 times four illegal [[speaking indistinctly]] Yeah, 265 are six illegal depots per municipality. What can the mayor do when I fine him? So there's a lot to think about about public policy, about not leaving orphans to the mayors. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u92	Thank you, Mr. Lichev. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like to draw attention to another interesting waste issue, namely: during the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, we have made a number of changes related to waste legislation. One of the most interesting and the most serious is the introduction of the requirement for video surveillance of waste incineration plants, as well as landfills. This is a strict regulation on operators themselves. In this regard, my question to you is: are there still depots and installations that have not complied with these legal requirements and have not introduced 24-hour surveillance systems to be provided to RIEWs, respectively, to municipalities? If any, are sanctions imposed under the law, because the law also provides sanctions in this direction, and if you know them by name, I would be grateful to you to list them? And as it is up to you lately to ask questions, I would like to make a sub-question. Turning waste into resource is one of the main objectives of the roadmap for the efficient use of resources in Europe. It is clear to everyone that waste recovery is part of the solution to the problems, but efforts are needed to produce quality RDF and, of course, guarantees for non-polluting installations. My question to you is: what has the Ministry done on this matter for these almost four months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u94	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u95	To tell you the truth, Mr. MP, you really surprised me and I guarantee that I will prepare myself further with detailed information on this, because you expect me to do an analysis of the application and effectiveness of a law that you adopted yesterday. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "It is not from yesterday, but from two years ago. "]] Oh, two years ago? So it's been a long time. I'll do it. I'm sorry. In support of this, I would like to say that if you were able to do this, it was a big breakthrough. For example, when controlling the operators of complex permits, we cannot obtain data in RIEW online from automatic gas stations because it was a commercial secret. So that remains to be fixed. Otherwise, I guarantee to give you this reference in writing. Excuse me, but I told you it was a huge subject. As you can see, I don't read because I can't remember all the facts and circumstances. Does that satisfy you as an answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u96	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u97	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I'm not gonna hide that I changed the strategy for my speech a little bit. I'm going to ask a question, as the Adhok say, that is, a consequence of the discussion. Bulgaria has missed huge opportunities in terms of the circular economy. The new package of measures sets even higher targets. Bulgaria froze and fell asleep somewhere around the recycling industry, and it in its worst form as control, as well as performance, and as reporting. As a result of what I have heard from the Minister, I would like to ask him, as he, except as a man who has worked for many years at the Ministry of Environment and Water, and as a minister of service, must leave his mark in a longer policy, as should each one. I was particularly impressed with the efforts made with regard to conversations with recycling organisations. My question, Minister, is this: what is your vision and what measures you are taking Bulgaria to finally get out of this poorly used circle of recycling economy, as the European Union is far, far ahead in its vision. These three letters "R" which were at one time a secret to us "reduction," reuse, recycled.................................................................................................................... to us............................................................................................................................ What efforts and measures do you take so that we can direct all efforts of waste management policies in this hierarchy, as we no longer recycle, and with that we end, is the leitmotive of both the circular economy and the green deal, and the fight against the waste factor, and the smaller production, the coding and the reduction of recycled products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. In you lives not only the MP, but also the philosopher. You asked me a great question. Directly what I have adopted, I said it, this is the National Waste Management Program, but you are absolutely right.. It is aimed only at recycling waste. The green economy and the circular economy are not that at all. From the previous government, I found that the development of a Strategy for adapting to the circular economy was commissioned, but it was still primarily aimed at waste. So what did I do? I proposed to the Prime Minister to create an interdepartmental group where the Minister of Economy, Energy, Agriculture, all competent authorities, and to create a National Strategy for adapting to the circular economy, because we want or do not want, it is also a mandatory condition for obtaining EU funds. This task force was created by order of the Prime Minister and is currently working. With regard to the condition in which I found the strategy in the Ministry, it was in quite good condition, but the analytical parts and the proposals have not yet been drawn, so I cannot answer you specifically. When the document is ready, we will probably be able to inform each other. Otherwise, I must also tell the MPs: if you understand the circular economy only as recycling waste, it is detrimental to state policy. The circular economy is an efficient use of water, re-use of water, low energy efficiency, low emissions and a number of others, because I cannot list them comprehensively. In other words, the adjustment of the economy to enter the circular economy and the green economy are very complex, capital intensive. In this regard, when negotiations were held with the European Commission on green transactions, we argued that the money that is being allocated by this green fund should be distributed not only in view of the territory of the country and per capita, but also depending on the standard of the level at which these countries are developing, and especially there should be advantages for the later accession countries. In general, your question is excellent. Even I had proposed, my colleagues in Romania have very well approached the issue and created a green ministry. So there has to be a strategy, there has to be a law on circular economy and green economy, and there has to be an office responsible for it, so that we can adapt and not stay last. I know this answer doesn't completely satisfy you, but I guess I kind of answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u100	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u101	Dear Minister, for several years we have been struggling with the import of illegal waste, of imported waste rather, somewhat effective. In my humble opinion, these imports are becoming a pandemic for several main reasons. First, importers are looking for a weak administration that is easily corrupted. Secondly, there is an economic benefit from burning waste in Bulgaria for three reasons. The first is that you get money from importing junk. The second is that the energy from burning waste is highly efficient and a double price is paid by the state. And the third reason is that no carbon charges are due in the combustion of waste. So when the economic reason for the imports of waste is removed, we will not talk about such a problem. My question is related to the TPP. Information appeared that there was an order to stop the power plant from those days until environmental changes were made to the power plant itself. Could you give us a little more information on this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u102	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u103	Dear Mr. People's Representative, because you are asking me a question that is not relevant at all, I can also refrain from answering you, but because there is a great interest, I will answer you. As early as 2018, the Air Cleanliness Directive is supplemented. There is one reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions by 0.6%. All operators of large combustion plants have been warned that the compliance period expires on 17 August 2021. And they were warned a long time ago. Firstly, the question you are asking me should be referred to the Ministry of Energy, to the KEWRC, should be referred to the owner of the TPP. Because I ask the KEWRC how did it validate the price of electricity and heat of the thermal power plant, when they do not provide a service of the required quality? For me, a service with the required quality for electricity and heating is not only the quantity, it must also be the quality of the service, i.e. the service being delivered to the consumer in compliance with all environmental requirements. In the context of the fact that I had the short piece of paper as minister of service to come the deadline of 17 August 2021, where the European Commission will hit us, and it is related to the so-called derogations. All other combustion plants with the exception of the Sofia thermal plants, the thermal power plants of Bobov dol and the TPP of Brikel are questionable, but with the TPP of Bobov dol is not the only reason. I, unfortunately, am not an industrial and civil engineering engineer, there are many MPs here who possess this terminology, but I will tell you very simply. What has been so complicated since 2018 just to change the holes in the gas vents, so I've been told they are, so when you burn whatever smoke doesn't pass through the treatment facilities, it goes out. We've put there an automatic station that's been sitting there for ten days. Air pollution is constantly recorded for everyone else. In addition, on 13 April 2021, RIEW went and gave them a prescription to submit a repair plan. We have a letter from the manager of the TPP that he is committed until the 14th to present a plan for the recovery work. Something like this didn't happen. They therefore go again, find that nothing has been done and issue a forced administrative measure. This measure was appealed on the same day before the Kyustendil Administrative Court. The Kyustendil administrative court rules in favour of the RIEW Sofia. That's what I can tell you. And here the big speculation begins how it will become a national tragedy if these capacities are excluded, because in order to do the repair of the chimney, the power needs to be turned off for a few days, or hours, I don't know how much, I'm not a specialist. And it starts.. how to increase the price of electricity, how to collapse the national energy system. And I immediately ask counter-questions: where is the cheap current that is exported from the nuclear power plant Kozloduy? Can't he temporarily fill this hole? Where's the 400 million? Cube. M, which we gave NEK from the dams to balance the system during the hottest heat? Don't they temporarily fill this hole after the end of August the weather cools down? Where is the money that the KEWRC must have estimated was given for the environment when it confirmed the price of electricity and the heat from the thermal power station? All questions he doesn't have answers to. The only answer I'm going to give you is that as long as I'm a minister of service, no one can break me to violate every citizen's constitutional right to a healthy environment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have no private interest in the subject and in the waste. I also have a tradition of asking a few questions with a few sub-questions. I listened carefully to the honorable Mr. Lichev and I understand that the responsibilities for many things are outside the Ministry. They were in the legislation, they were in the mayors, they were in ordinary officials. Mr. Litchev, who implements the state policy in the field of environment and water? How long does it take for the Executive Environment Agency to issue a permit and change a permit to put the Omurtage depot into operation, for example? Do you think that in this executive agency the deadlines are little to say are respected? Do you think it works well? Before you there was another minister who was not employed, and he allowed himself to say that there was no global warming. Now I'm listening to you call the trash. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, throughout Europe and throughout the world, garbage, as you call it, is waste, and waste is a resource. We, if we consider our resources as a country, will see that we may be the richest of waste. It's not junk, it's resource. Please keep that in mind from now on in your speeches. What else would I want as a question? There are two companies which, by decision of the Council of Ministers, passed into the Patrimonium of the Ministry of Environment and Water What are the plans for their development? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u106	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u107	And thank you for the questions. First of all, I don't know where the honourable Member has drawn from my statements that I call waste junk. On the contrary, I ironically called illegal waste junk that we can't handle, and it was highlighted clearly before that in the speech. I even remarked to the esteemed Mrs. Maya Manolova that she used that term if you heard me. Secondly, in my day when I am a minister, the Executive Environment Agency is under my personal authority. And there is no delay in administrative deadlines, nor is there a complaint of citizens. If there are any with you, with the parties, these are some lobbying complaints that are without evidence. If you have any evidence, please present them to me, because that's easy to talk about, but... With regard to the fact that you have understood that two companies are going to MOEW, this is not the truth at all. This is a preliminary decision by the Council of Ministers, which gives the Minister of Economy reason to assess the shares of the companies. Only then and if, because we are getting a little out of the subject, but I am obliged to tell you this because you are MPs, if the requirement of the European Commission comes into force, that there should be no state enterprises in Bulgaria, but there should be commercial companies, then maybe there will be a conversion in which the POSOS, Insenerator, Eco-Eco-Eco-Eco-Ecto-Antracitus in the form of an executive agency, because they are all related either to environmental policy financing or to the implementation of environmental activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u108	Thank you. Stand up BG. We're coming? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u109	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In 2019 Pleven turned out to be one of the cities that acquired the second largest portion of Italian................................................................................. T. From the Minister's exhibition and from several journalistic investigations, including that of Mrs. Valya Ahchieva and on the site of the Bulgarian company, it became clear that the Italian company does not want to take the trash back. In the investigation, however, it becomes clear a rather disturbing fact. The company does not want because it claims that there is a certificate issued that the garbage has been processed already. My question to the minister is: is there really such a certificate available to the Italian company, according to which the garbage has already been processed, as it is still at the depot in Pleven? And if there is such a certificate, who signed it and is still working at the Ministry this guy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u110	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u111	It's a very simple question. Of course it's not true. It's obvious. If you see the photos from the Pleven depot where 9,000 were deposited. i, you will see them in the original packaging.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u112	Is there a certificate?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u113	There isn't one, or I'm not familiar with that at the moment. I've done such a deep investigation with the waste that I don't think he'd have escaped me. Indeed, on the site of the TPP, I am not saying that it is the TPP, another firm, I do not even know who is there, these 218 tons have gone through shredding, which means unpacking, some pre-separating. The interesting thing is that these waste went through a company in Pazardzhik, which separated them, and those who have a notification of burning the Cement plants tend to burn it because it was no longer Bulgarian waste for them. With regard to these 218 tons, we could manage somewhat, but the 9,000 tonnes so far remain completely as... The very company to which you know the owner was convicted on probation, he appears to be a planter. The bad news is that the issue is again in the legislation when such notifications and permits are given to import such huge quantities, a bank guarantee should be required. And that bank guarantee for the price of this piece of junk should be at least 3 million. EUR, at least 10% of the value, but such a thing is not foreseen. To tell you the truth, for now, this remains an unresolved issue, although it is working intensively to resolve it, not violently.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u114	Thank you. Colleagues, do you want me to take a break before we start expressing attitude, as we also have a Presidency Council at 11:30? I'm giving it till 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u115	Let's move on. I apologize for the delay, but we've had the chairmanship council so far. We begin by expressing the attitude of the parliamentary groups. There's such a people here, Mr. Hinoski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u116	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister Lichev, honourable colleagues! I would like to express our attitude on this subject. It is presented quite broad-spectrum because things are very complicated. However, as a whole, I express our negative attitude towards the country's passivity and, in particular, the Ministry of Environment and Water on the subject of waste, which is an extremely important, high-tech topic, I stress, for Europe and for the world. Ladies and gentlemen, countries like the Netherlands and Germany are struggling to import waste from China. The Netherlands has built the most high-tech cogeneration heat plant, based on waste from China, which produces heat and feeds the heat efficiency of Amsterdam and a series of cities at 20 euros per megawatt hour against 60 euros at Heat Efficiency. Can you imagine what this is about? Therefore, a standard is maintained in these countries and one of the contributions to having high-tech energy production in these countries is precisely waste, in particular household waste. Of course, I don't mix waste with hazardous waste, it's a very separate subject that needs to be treated very carefully. The lack of state policy in this area I link it and I would like to explicitly point out the country's passivity and the regulatory documents regarding the difference between the target recycling rates that take place from 65 to 2035 in the household waste framework directive. The other target, notice, maximum deposit 10%. We ask the question, energy, mainly, but not just energy: what happened to these 35%, ladies and gentlemen? This is the volume of waste that is being treated by the circular economy and at least half of it is for producing cheap domestic energy, for industry. In Bulgaria, nothing is said in any legislation of the Ministry of the Environment about whether these waste is a resource or not for our industry and our energy. I want to tell you that there are so many advanced technologies already. Everyone says, yes, they can be burned, they can be burned. There are examples of emission-free processing also of these waste by gasification. There are many examples of such factories that already work both in Turkey and in Western Europe. The point is, we don't say anything. In our strategy, in our legal documents we are not talking about this cut of 35% of the waste that stands like this. It's the easiest thing for us to do, but it's costing the public a lot. I think it is absurd to submit a draft law banning imports of waste from third countries. This is a retrograde idea when we see what is happening around us not only in the countries of the European Union but also in other countries. The waste, domestic or industrial, ladies and gentlemen, is a resource, and it will increasingly rely on the future circular economy, of which we barely speak, and we do not have a single proposal in the Sustainability Plan that we are discussing. In the forthcoming discussion, we will also ask this question. This resource should find a place in our power balance plans, for energy development and especially for heating, because after 2035 we will hardly have gas anymore. It may be very optimistic, but by 2050 we will have only renewable energy and waste for emissionless energy production. I would also like to address the theme of the case with TPP, which today turned out to be a very hot potato. I would like to ask Mr. Minister: did you check and control RIEW's actions have verified the implementation of the recommendations? And if they are fulfilled, why is the ban on the work of the two units in the TPP continue? Because that could mean some other type of order that could lead and already have an effect on the stock market. I am not defending him in any way, and I strongly state that all requirements must be met, but this is a matter which I believe exists in public space as unclear. Have the recommendations to the TPP been implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u117	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In fact, my fellow Member from "There is such a people" touched on some of the accents that I had decided to say, but I will still mention them once again because they are important. I will start by saying that, unfortunately, once again, attempts are being made to politicize the subject of the environment. I would like to stress here that everyone who tries to play with this topic on a political basis throws a boomerang into the space that comes back with very great power to it. Why? Because the subject of the environment, it's overpolitical. Each of us, regardless of our capacity as a politician or as a citizen, leaves his mark on the environment, so we need to talk about the future when we talk about the environment. In recent years, the topics related to ecology have always been outparty, and I hope they remain so in the coming years. However, untruths and political suggestion should not be made by this tribune, especially by politicians who do not know the details of the regulations. When we talk about waste, we need to be aware of a few things. First of all, waste is classified by several criteria. Generally speaking, waste is treated by disposal, recycling and recovery. When we talk about waste, we need to talk specifically about what kind of waste we are talking about in our exhibition. The Bulgarian legislation transposes to a very clear and complete extent European, and, more than that, much of the requirements are exceeded, and only in Bulgaria. For example, when we talk about imports of waste for incineration or recovery by co-incineration or heat extraction, there are restrictions on imports up to 50% of the capacity of installations. This only happens in Bulgaria. Regarding the import of waste for disposal, it is strongly prohibited by the Law, I repeat it once again for colleagues who are playing with this topic. Import of disposal waste is prohibited! Open art. 98 of the Law and you'll see it. So everyone exercising on this subject, let's first observe the provisions that the Law has given, then let's talk about this topic. When it is said that the state has deserted from illegal landfills, I would like to remind you that all this is in response again to the European directives. Moreover, in recent years, from 2014 to 2020, over 750 million have only been invested. lv. in regional waste management systems. Of course, this amount is extremely insufficient and it is therefore necessary to pursue a consistent policy in this direction, and I mean the next governors. A number of changes in legislation have been made. I have already mentioned that mandatory requirements for video surveillance of incineration and disposal plants have been introduced. Also the most sick theme of Bulgarians is the import of waste. It was made public, with a public register.. each one of the citizens can enter and look at what kind of imports and what kind of waste we are talking about and quantities, and where they are going, respectively where they come from. When we talk about the experimental combustion of waste, which has also been mentioned just now, there have also been a number of changes, and what we have introduced as a requirement is to make a mandatory environmental impact assessment, regardless of the quantities requested. You know that there was a volume that was excluded from the Law before that, we eliminated it as a norm and said that no matter how much we burn experimentally, it must go through an impact assessment. To the question of why the Minister has not been able to stop the imports of waste. The answer is clear, it is set in the European directives, but it is strange how a long-standing expert from the Ministry of Environment and Water makes a commitment that he knows cannot be fulfilled. Regarding the plant in Sofia. The example of the plant in Vienna was given, which is located, by the way, right in the centre of Vienna, which has been a monument of culture and has been functioning for many years. A moment ago, my colleague, Hinovski, mentioned the Netherlands. In fact, this is the practice throughout the European Union. The Minister also mentioned Germany. This is not something new, this is something that has been applied for many years and we have to go in this direction. I ask a question: if we don't go in the direction of heat and electricity production...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u119	Your time, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u120	Last sentence, I apologize. If we do not go in the direction of energy recovery, how will we comply with the Waste Management Plan, which you yourself have accepted, where 65% of the waste is at stake to be recycled, 10% deposited? What are we gonna do with the other 25%? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u121	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u122	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Minister, you have commented that there is no state policy in the field of waste, you have commented that this situation has not happened in those two months or three months for which you manage the Ministry, but let us start with the separate collection. I suppose that you, as a long-standing expert, an employee of the Ministry of Environment and Water, know very well that after the establishment of this system over the years it has remained severe enough, monopolistic, with high requirements for future participants in the separate collection because.. you look, the conditions are extremely severe so that a company can obtain a license to carry out this activity. And this monopoly led to what we commented here just now about the fictional recycling numbers in Bulgaria, about the possibility of reporting iron for paper or vice versa. I only give one example. Didn't you ever think this place should get serious in the separate organizations? You know about how much the budget is and you know how much money is being spent. If you don't know, we've also insisted that there are public records, that we have data, so that we can see who touches and how much. Unfortunately, as I recall, this didn't happen because sometimes we blame the mayors for not doing their job with regard to unregulated landfills and depots. What do the mayors have? A contract with an organization that will separately collect its waste.. The mayor neither gives nor takes. In the end, the municipality does not care because it cannot be convinced of the effect of how much the volume of waste that will be deposited has decreased. So we have long postponed the new ways and methodologies for collecting household waste. One time I don't know what causes, another time election, the last time I don't remember what the reasons were. On the issue of these illegal landfills, we at BSP have asked a question three weeks ago.. There is still no one to answer us about the state in Veliko Tarnovo area of these illegal landfills: why are they obtained, what are the reasons, is there volumes to be put, to dump the waste into regulated landfills, and not to turn into unregulated landfills? The model is vicious when collecting product fees. There is no European country when you import cars to take your ecotax in advance. What about this gypsy, with an excuse that happened to collect the fees for buses and trucks? The fee is paid when the car is drained. What are we doing? We pick it up at the import. Who operates with that money, how many cars can be drained? Years ago, I bothered to make a reference. It turned out that several thousand dozens of cars, if you rely on this money to be set aside, which should be designed for this particular utilization, are around 110 thousand cars in Bulgaria. As I recall, when we had caught imports since 2010, it turned out that we would be in such a situation that there was no one to pay for their destruction. Separately, not to mention the way oils are collected from these cars, how they are processed, where they are processed, how they are exported, there are many problems. You said that there are many legislative holes in the legislation, but I cannot understand why your first legislative initiative, which you submitted for public discussion to the Council of Ministers, are some amendments to the Water Act and the Ordinance, which I already confused several mandates, Valeri Simeonov tried to get them through the Nuclear Energy Act. This is about the pilot penal procedure that we have from the European Union, the small hydropower plants in some streams and rivers in Bulgaria. If you've considered this to be such an important law, in all the emptiness you've described to us in terms of legislation, I don't know what it will save us from...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u123	Your time, Mr. Genov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u124	...from the criminal proceedings or from something else or will serve the interests of the three associations which strongly insisted that there should be changes in order to be able to rotate their plants, sell their electricity or others who have building permits that have not started and have not completed the projects. So there are a lot of questions you can think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u125	Thank you. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I warned him about the weather. Mr. Chenchev and Mirchev are very much watching for the weather, but rather the other parliamentary groups. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Litchev, today we are discussing an extremely important topic? important but very difficult topic for Bulgaria, because we often hear about the waste dump Bulgaria, and it is really not an accident, as it turns out that we systematically have problems with waste management. As I have heard today in this House, we continue to discuss mainly the last levels of the hierarchy of waste management, rather than seeking the first. The difference in the debate in this National Assembly and parliaments in Western countries or in the European Parliament is drastic, ladies and gentlemen! There is a misunderstanding here about what a circular economy is, what ecodesign is, what is sustainable waste management! And I just want to remind you that the waste management hierarchy is as follows: prevention, reduction, re-use, only then comes recycling, only then comes energy production, incineration and finally disposal. We are in a situation where we are mainly discussing the last two aspects of this hierarchy, that is, we are discussing the worst decisions that fall away. We hear here about the factory in Vienna, it is, firstly, not in the center, I have also been, but I would like to tell you that the waste burning plant in Sofia is the last project funded by the European Commission, which aims to burn waste, and this is not a good practice in Europe at all. Europe is moving away from this practice because it cannot achieve recycling targets, for example, let alone others. And here we're going to build another installation that we won't be able to power, or even worse, we're going to have to power by importing from abroad waste that we're going to burn, which is RDF. Actually, we talked a little bit about something else today. There is a criminal procedure, which has been mentioned by Mr. Litchev, who has reached a ruling by the EU court and which has started again, and she already has a financial penalty against Bulgaria, which is the case procedure 2082 of 2012, for which there is a judgment from 2015 of the court for which a new procedure has been launched a month ago, in fact, is not even a month ago "on 15 July 2021," and this procedure will lead to financial penalties, probably with a retroactive date because Bulgaria has not been recultivated and has not closed all landfills or landfills for waste. In fact, the regional landfills for waste, which were the great aspiration, including especially in the management of GERB, are precisely in this final phase of disposal. Their capacity is almost complete and we do not know what to do with all the other waste that is still on the ground. Here I won't even talk about the hospital waste that is being burned, including in the center of Sofia, and we don't have very good control over this thing about animal waste, about jungles, which were very lobbying and conveniently extracted from the Waste Management Act and went into the Underground Resources Act, we're talking about 55 spares, as part of them started breaking down, because all the walls have neither concrete nor any better security system and cause huge damage to environmental systems. I will not talk about clothes, about tyres, about electronic waste, even less about radioactive waste, in which, by the way, there is also a criminal procedure, or about ship waste for which there is a criminal procedure, or about waste water in the settlements for which there is a criminal procedure. In fact, today, Mr. Lichev and I in the Committee on Environment and Water will discuss all criminal procedures in the Environment sector. What do we propose and how do we hope that it will continue from now on the National Assembly - this or the next, precisely with regard to the circular economy and waste management, because 65%, honourable Members, for recycling is not an upper limit, is not what we will do with others, this is a lower limit, this is a minimum requirement? We should not aim at simply fulfilling the minimum requirement, we should focus on sustainable waste management systems based on kilograms of general waste. Yes, the census has been postponed and has therefore been postponed in these two years, after the last National Census, in which there should be such a plan. This will probably be in 2023, but we should not wait until then. We must introduce a separate collection system at the source of waste, in households, in businesses, we must introduce a system or encourage a system of repair and reuse centres. These are the upper levels in this hierarchy. We need to create an opportunity for separate collection of biological waste. And let me tell you what is meant by energy from waste: biological waste that can produce biogas from which to produce energy as a by-product, to have heat, but especially the main product to be that manure that goes back to agricultural land, because this is the circular economy. Burning is not part of the circular economy. When burning, the product we have is fine dust particles, persistent organic pollutants and dangerous waste that we need to store somewhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u127	Your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u128	I'm very sorry that we're really discussing burning here as some kind of priority. This is no longer a priority, this is one of the last opportunities. And I end up with two more things, namely the vending machines, and all of this, ladies and gentlemen, will also lead to a reduction of the municipal waste charge - something that benefits not only ecology and the environment, but also Bulgarian consumers. Thank you. [[Private applause by the Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u129	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u130	Only if I may, I present to Madam President of the National Assembly an appeal [[sends document]] since from next week it comes into force for the mixes all those plastic products to ask for at least here to be gone to set a good example.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u132	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Lichev! I'll stop where Mr. Sandov ended up. I am fully aware that the work of a minister of service, as well as of the entire caretaker government, is to conduct and prepare fair elections, but we are part of the EU and we cannot afford to take up any months or days of delay. Indeed, what happened to the Paris Agreement, with the. Green Deal, with Fit for 55 at all, all these things that are happening in Europe, make me think that despite the short life of a service government, we must at least try not to abandon this resource, which for me is not trash, but a resource, to stop burying it, calling it reclamation. In the same way, with the purified water from the treatment plants, let's stop using the term discharge, pour it into some ravines instead of watering with it and the agricultural colleagues to wonder where to get water to water their areas, just look at the way the whole of Europe looks at the environment, the waste, the separate collection, the circular economy to place such parameters in the goods and products that are produced so that they can be decomposed with less resources than a new production can be produced. It's the circular economy. I hope that from what I have heard from both my colleagues and Mr. Hinowski and Mr. Genov, in this House we have an absolute consensus that we are lag behind specifically in the field of environment and water, in the area of climate change, not to forget, although it has gone into energy, we are obliged to take care of this thing. Maybe this should be our national priority, our top priority. I would not like to evaluate you as Minister, because it is none of your business. Your job was to make honest choices, but it is really right to take this step, which I see you making with the amendments and additions to some bills. On the other hand, it is right to say that our parliamentary group is not particularly pleased with your answers today. I will personally point out to you that it is the Minister who implements the state policy in the field of environment and water, whether it is employed or not. This is the Minister, for as long as he is there, to do this work, which goes to the Republic of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u133	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. And stand up BG! We're coming! Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u134	Dear Madam Chairman, Members of Parliament, Minister Litchev! Today, the topic raises two extremely important issues that can be considered as different aspects of the same problem: the environmental aspect of the related health aspect of how we import more and more waste and how this affects the health of Bulgarian citizens; and the second problem that has been raised today is the criminal aspect. I will focus on each of these two issues, two aspects, to express the attitude of the group. We're coming to today's hearing. First of all, it is shocking how from 2011 to 2017 the imports of waste into Bulgaria rose 15 times because if in 2011 there were 10,000 tonnes of waste imported, in 2017 it became 150 thousand tonnes of waste imported into Bulgaria in one year! Why is this happening? Two days ago Radio Free Europe showed why: a piece of paper signed for Mr. Kovachki's thermal plants leads to waste imports becoming a very profitable business from which they earn these private thermal plants, and some cement plants that have also been burning waste in the last four or five years. This, of course, does not come without someone to pay the price. We Bulgarian citizens pay the price with our health. According to the World Health Organization, 15 thousand people a year die in Bulgaria because of problems related to the dirty air. And some of the causes of the dirty air are precisely those plants that unsafe burn waste and spew fine particulates. The report on the waste incineration plant in Sofia, which Sofia Municipality plans to build, writes that this installation will spew nine tonnes of fine particulates a year in the center of Sofia. Here the colleagues from GERB counter: and in the centre of Vienna there is an installation for burning of garbage. However, colleagues, Vienna is Vienna, Sofia is Sofia, as well as Cave is Cave. And unlike Vienna, where it is burned in one way and with strict respect for the norms, ask local people in Peshtera how waste is burned and how the whole city smells because of the toxins and fine dust particles that spew this installation there. Since we do not want Sofia to look like the Cave, we believe that this project is not necessary. But there is a problem anyway. Along with the environmental-health aspect, I said there was a criminal aspect. You, Mr. Minister, have made it very clear. There is evidence that the Ndrangeta is interested in importing waste into Bulgaria, of which 300 euros per tonne has been baked. And I ask: The Ndranges, which is one of the heads of the octopus in Italy, why should she be invited to Bulgaria and for five years to do what she does? Should Bulgaria be one of the tentacles of the octopus, and is it not time for us to cut off this tentacle of the octopus, which is why, again, the health of Bulgarian citizens suffers? Yes, you, Minister, said laws should be passed. Fortunately, the Ministry of Environment and Water has a legislative initiative. We're from the band! Get up! Get up! We are coming!......................................................................................................... And we also believe that if, as the Waste Framework Directive says in the Strategy and Action Plan for Transition to a circular economy of the Republic of Bulgaria, we are moving towards 65% being recycled, we should already start to forget about the waste incineration plants in Bulgaria. Because it's not a circular economy. This is the opposite of the circular economy. On the contrary, recycling, using and preventing waste is in Sofia to have a waste incineration plant, which is three times as large as the capacity of what Sofia produces as waste per year. Sofia produces as waste per year 60 thousand tons, and the Waste Factory is intended to burn 180 thousand tons! And where will the remaining 120 thousand tons come from? Well, obviously, from some kind of import. Therefore, in order to stop being the dump of Europe, yes, there must be decisive action of both the Ministry and the National Assembly to limit this problem, which is extremely important for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u135	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You don't have the floor, but I can give it to you if you want it, on the grounds of art. 83 of the Constitution is simply to say something, but in the hearing procedure you have no further say. Oh, you do? All right, here you go, on the grounds of art. 83 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable political parties in parliament! I am proud of myself, since I am not liked by politicians and the business is precisely the goal of a Minister of Environment and Water. And I must assure you that within the framework of the caretaker government, I have done the most possible to bring Bulgaria closer to the European Union. I also assure you that all the documents that have come into my various portfolios have been transmitted to the competent authorities and you will find out when they do their job, what abuses are involved. Otherwise, I thank you for your kindness to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This item has exhausted this item from the agenda. We're moving on to a hearing of... Do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u138	Thank you, Madam President. I don't think this meeting has been extended today. 30 minutes to the end of the meeting, colleagues. You remember, last week we started a hearing procedure for a minister and we got to half the second questions. And so it remained without respect, without anything, meaning the effect of the hearing I think was not achieved. Therefore, my proposal, Madam President, is to make this point first on Friday so that all questions can be asked and all relations can be expressed if you do not mean to prolong the time of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u139	Given the agenda for tomorrow, Mr. Svilensky, she'll probably still be first for Friday, because the controls are at 11:00. I don't know if we should vote if we have three budgets. I suppose tomorrow, if necessary, will be extended, but today there are committees, and tomorrow, too. So I suggest that we do not extend it today and consider tomorrow how it will develop... then make the appropriate decision. And with regard to the Forest Executive Agency, we didn't continue it this week and we didn't start with it because the Executive Director is on leave and asked not to this week. So it'll be on next week's agenda. That's why I did it. Shall I put the procedural proposal to the vote? Back-up offer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u140	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest an inverse procedure: to continue on our agenda - half an hour is half an hour. We must begin the discussion on this subject. This is important for the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u141	Mrs. Tsoneva, in any case, we'll start as far as we can and continue after the budgets tomorrow. Let's start with the hearing: HEARING OF THE OFFICE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND MESSAGES OF BASIC TURN. 110 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE INTERMEDIATE PROCEDURES, THE DIMENSION AND THE WAY OF FUNDING THE PROJECT FOR THE COLLECTION OF THE VARNIAN LANGUAGES, INCLUDING THE EVENTS OF STATE RESTRUCTURING AND REPRESENTATION. Importers. "Antoaneta Tsoneva and Ivaylo Mirchev. Which one of the importers wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Tsoneva, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u142	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for coming to this hearing. "Democratic Bulgaria" very carefully monitors in detail how this huge, strategic project for the country develops. What we are going to talk about is the biggest investment in Bulgaria's port infrastructure in the last 45 years after the construction of Port Varna. Why is this project extremely important? Except for its strategic importance and its scale, and because of the great mystery and secret in which it continues to be encased. For this reason, we have requested a hearing with the Minister of Transport. It's at least 435 million. BGN, which are invested in deepening the fairway of the canals of Varna and Beloslav Lake. But what is worrying about this project? Yes, it is important, it is expected by the industry there, but what we come up with as findings regarding our monitoring of the development of the project is worrying and it is as follows. First, absolute opaqueness in the realization of this project. After the Council of Ministers grants 220 million for the implementation of the project in the 2020 draft budget, this money goes to the State-owned Port Infrastructure (Port Infrastructure) and after that the Port Infrastructure (Port Infrastructure) signed a contract with the already commercial company "Transport Construction and Recovery" (TSB) also 100% owned by the Ministry of Transport. But suddenly, the price of 220 million becomes, notice, 393 million, and then, in the familiar way, from the auto-maristrass, as you recall, as the API was transferring to the Auto-maristrass, a new contract comes out here and the TTV enters into a contract, naturally, without the award of a public procurement and competition procedure, with one consortium of two companies. However, they also do not waste their time, and hop is already transferring this order to another company that brings four Russian loggers from Kaliningrad to Varna Lake. From this 435 million-dollar Matryoshka you see what comes out and at no time there is no public procurement. Everything is realized by the favourite approach of the government of GERB, the so-called In House. The experience of the media and our attempts to learn more about these contracts, their size, their conditions, the technical projects were hitting literally on the wall, refusing to provide public information that fell in court, silent refusals by the Ministry, including a lack of goodwill from the current minister. I believe that this is the most appropriate person to answer this question not only because today it is in the role of Minister of Transport, but also because from 2017 until the beginning of 2021 it has been Chairman of the Board of State Enterprise. Why is this project also particularly important? Because the button for this project is quickly pressed at the moment when Mr. Ahmed Dogan became the owner of the TPP Varna and, respectively, the port of Ezerovo. At this moment, all state institutions are starting to work so quickly on the Channel 1 and Channel 2 extension project in Varna Lake, which we have not seen before, although this is a project that has been spoken of since the 1990s. As soon as Ahmed Dogan has economic interests in the development of the TPP, the institutions begin to act at a huge speed. The state is making funds, starting the inhouse, circumventing public procurements, because the investment intentions of Mr. Dogan and Mr. Papazov are the port of Ezerovo to become a hub, a key port to absorb a huge amount of cargo. What is happening, and what we are seeing is that the carvings are moving, however, only in traffic and trajectory, which provides access to precisely the port of Lakeovo. The other 14 ports interested in Varna "West" have virtually no interest in this project at the moment. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] And one more thing that's extremely important.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u143	Your time, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u144	The port of Ezerovo would not have received the necessary documents for operation if the quay wall had been illegally transferred to use through a so-called framework partnership agreement...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u145	The weather, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u146	...Mr. Minister something that doesn't exist in legal peace. The quay wall is exclusively state-owned and can only be used through a concession or lease. So this project of over 400 million is practically running at a huge rate...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u147	Mrs. Tsoneva, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u148	...from the last cabinet Borisov works very much for Ahmed Dogan, in great opaqueness and to the detriment of the interested there. I expect answers to these questions. Why are these contracts signed? Why are the size of these contracts like this?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u149	Then you'll ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u150	Why did you go around... I'm graduating. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Why did you go around the Public Procurement Act and do you think you're protecting the interests of other private agents on this territory? Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Mr. Minister, please inform the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u152	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mrs. Tsoneva, dear Mr. Mirchev! On the subject of today's hearing, I would like to provide you with the following information. The shipping channels one and two ensure the access of ships from the Black Sea to almost all port terminals in the port of Varna. They were built in 1976 and 1978 and for their time were largely in line with the then parameters of ships sailing in the Black Sea. Along the channel one and channel two are located the ports of the public state property, namely Varna Port terminals privately owned, such as PRMV Odessos, port terminal for base oils, TPP The largest terminal is Varna West, which is located on the west coast of Beloslav Lake, i.e. the largest load flow from all terminals of our Black Sea ports. There is also the industry of Varna. For the development of port terminals in the region of the port of Varna, which corresponds to the current trends for increasing the size of the ships, the existing restrictions are mainly due to insufficient depths of channel one and channel two. The Varna port terminals are therefore uncompetitively capable and are a reason for diverting the traditional cargo to the port of Constanza in Romania. The deepening of shipping locations at port terminals is not the subject of the Channel One and Channel Two Deepening Project. Investment intentions for the development of existing or construction of new ports and port terminals in the area which, with regard to the parameters of their quay walls and aquators, comply with the parameters of large-scale ships transporting cargo across the Black Sea and the trend of their future increase, cannot be justified without providing the relevant conditions for the access of ships via navigable channels and have secure guarantees by the State for the timely deepening of shipping channels. In accordance with art. 115m from the Law on Marine Spaces, maintaining existing and building new approach channels, including port aquatories, sea and river depots for dredging, is the obligation of the State Enterprise. The State-owned enterprise "Port Infrastructure" has prepared documentation for the award of a public contract with the subject of the project "Design and deepening" of channel one and channel two "port Varna Engineering." The State-owned company has requested from the Ministry of Transport and Reconstruction to provide information on whether the prerequisites set out in art. 15, para. 1, t. 5 (b) of the Public Procurement Act. "Transport construction and recovery" EAD has replied that there are prerequisites for the implementation of the said legal hypothesis. A project of a framework contract for the settlement of relations between the State-owned enterprise Port infrastructure and the Transport Construction and Recovery Association has been sent. In response to the letter, "Transport construction and recovery' also provided the pricing elements that will be applied when forming the price of each specific agreement to the framework contract for the implementation of the assigned activities, as follows: hourly rate, additional labour costs, additional costs on mechanisation, supply of other costs on materials, profit of 10%. After an exchange of additional correspondence, Contract No 50 of 9 August 2019 has been concluded. According to the contract of employment "Transport construction and recovery" EAD implements research, design, construction and installation, repair, rehabilitating, dredging and other works of the sites of the State Enterprise "Port Infrastructure" included in the approved annual investment programme for each relevant year for the duration of the Treaty. For the implementation of the subject-matter of the Framework Treaty between the Parties, separate agreements will be concluded with which the implementation of specific sites or activities under the procedure laid down in the Treaty will be awarded. In accordance with the Framework Agreement, a call has been made for an offer for the implementation of an establishment included in the investment programme of the State Enterprise "Port Infrastructure" for 2019. The project is designed and deepened channel one and channel two of the port of Varna Engineering. As a result of the invitation, an agreement was signed between the two undertakings. The scope of the Agreement includes the following activities: 1. Research projects, preparation of an investment project in the phase of the Work project, as well as the author's supervision for the deepening of the shipping channels one and two, the port of Varna, together with the lake part of the navigation route, of the approach and conversion circle of the port of Varna.West. To provide a depth of 13,50 meters at the limit of not less than the existing widths along the bottom of the channels together with the movement, construction of stabiliste coastal facilities where proven necessary and design developments for the displacement of the underground networks of the technical infrastructure, dredging and construction installation works for the implementation of the approved investment project, the building permit granted under the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. The scope of the activities covered by the Agreement shall not include the preparation and coordination of a master plan. The total price of the Agreement, formed in accordance with the adopted by the State-owned enterprise, is 417 million. 847 thousand. Two hundred and twenty-two leva. with VAT, of which for research works and copyright supervision 400,000. lv. without VAT, for the implementation of dredging and construction works Eight hundred and fifty-five thousand. lv. without VAT. A list of 59 potential external suppliers of products and services has been submitted by the Executive Director of Invitations have been sent to four companies that are included in the list of "Transport Construction and Recovery" EAD with potential external suppliers of products and services. After an analysis of the submitted offers and the price proposals for the contractor of the site were selected Contract No D-238 was signed on 22 October between the Transport Construction and Recovery Company and the DZDC.Es was subject to the Company under the Law on Obligations and Contracts to carry out at its risk, with its materials or raw materials, equipment, mechanization and human resources, under the terms of the contract and against remuneration of the activities of designing and deepening of channel one and channel two, the port of Varna Engineering, as provided for in the technical specification and quantitative-value account. To date, the implementation of the Project is entering its final phase. In different areas of the two channels, quota projects have been reached, and in other large areas the depth has already reached levels of 14 meters. It is also extremely important to complete the complete banging of the Asparuh bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to ask questions from the parliamentary groups. Are there any willing people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u154	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for some of the explanations you have given, but it has not yet been clear how exactly are the companies selected and, in particular, the Russian company, GIT Troy, how did they receive an order for hundreds of millions of levs? On the basis of what economic analysis and what does the cost-benefit approach show, which needs to be prepared, and when can those costs which have been incurred be returned? I'm going to ask you for the specific, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u155	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can provide you with the following information that has reached me. Collaborators at the DZZD "Es Build" are "SEM Ром" Ltd and "String Company" Ltd. How it came to the conclusion of a contract with GIT Building, I have no information. I don't know. [[(Replications from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva:]] I'm interested, but I haven't found any information on how it got there, and what procedure? Whether there was a specific procedure for the conclusion of a contract with the GIT Group. As regards transport works and reimbursement, which in 2018 was in a difficult financial situation, the total amount of liabilities on 30 April 2018 amounted to 16 million. BGN, including obligations to suppliers, to the NRA and to staff. The wages were delayed by over four months, the company's bank accounts were blocked by the NRA. In the last three years, the company has been stabilized. It accounts for a profit for 2019 and 2020, and for the last two years has actually paid taxes of over 20 million. lv. As of the beginning of 2021, the tax paid by a company amounted to nearly 3 million. lv. The value of the entire contract amounted to more than 20 million. lv. profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, as you mentioned in the previous speech, the shipping channels one and two ensure access of ships from the Black Sea to almost all port terminals in the port area of Varna. On the protégé of channel one and channel two are located port terminals, public state property, namely "Varna Port terminals privately owned, such as PRMV Odessos Varna, port terminal The largest terminal is Varna, which is located on the west coast of the Lake of Beloslav. It has the largest load capacity from all the terminals of our Black Sea ports. There is a focused industry of the city of Varna. Port of Varna is growing steadily. There are already approved projects to expand existing and build new terminals. It is a Port Terminal for Fuels, Port Terminal Logistic Center The project of a master plan of the port for public transport is also under way. For the development of port terminals in the region of the port of Varna, which corresponds to the current trends for increasing the size of the ships, the existing restrictions are mainly from an inaccessible depth for channel 1 and channel 2. The existing project depths are insufficient...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u159	Your time, Mr. Malinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u160	In this regard, I would like to ask you: what are the benefits for all port terminals from the deepening of the water channels in Varna and Beloslav Lake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u161	Thank you, Mr. Malinov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before the drainage works began, the depths of channel 1 and channel 2 were 12,50 meters for channel 1, respectively, for channel 2, 12 meters. As I said earlier, to date, depths of 14 meters have already been reached. What are the benefits of port terminals? The benefits can be considered in several aspects.. Direct benefits for port terminals and indirect benefits for all involved in the process itself. Port terminals will be able to accept ships of greater tonnage, will be able to load and accordingly unload cargo at the same time with larger volumes. Accordingly, all carriers carrying or transporting these goods will be engaged in the process. It will also have an effect on the agents themselves involved in the process, of course, and on all pilot vessels. So the direct benefits for port terminals should not be considered only in their closed circle, simply the indirect effect of accepting larger ships and processing more cargo throughout the year, attracting new freighters and cargo will be an effect for the whole economy and industry not only in the region but also in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Now it is clear what the idea of the question is. Colleagues rightly place it and really worry about how 435 million given to GPPI are going to TTV and from there they go to some subcontractors a practice characteristic of the management of GERB in the last four years, at the expense of Bulgarian citizens, at the expense of the state budget, because this money is neither of GPPI, nor of GERB, nor of their colleagues from the government, but are of all Bulgarian citizens. My question, Mr. Minister, to you is: is there a decision of the Board of Directors of the State Enterprise Ports Infrastructure (SOC)?.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And for the TTV company itself you claim that you have asked questions to which they have answered that they probably comply with the law, but whether they have had the opportunity to carry out this task after they have hired subcontractors, or as in the Automagestake the money, give the money and then whoever can is looking to carry out the activity. So my question is: is there a decision of the Board of Directors on this issue, and have they had the opportunity to carry out these functions that they were assigned to them, or did they not have the opportunity, but have reassigned the activities of the four ships or there as much as they came from other private companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u165	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilenski, a decision of the Board of State Enterprise, Port Infrastructure, for the conclusion of this contract is not available. This contract is not even considered in the Governing Council. As I mentioned earlier in relation to the other part of your question, the CTV corresponds to the legal hypothesis for assigning an inhouse order. I'm not convinced on the whole scale of what... I don't have all the documents so I can be convinced about this whole process, negotiated, between the State-owned enterprise, Port Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u167	Thank you. Mr. Mirchev, come in. And I think you and I are gonna be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u168	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, Mrs. Tsoneva has come out to tell you a corruption scheme related here to Mr. Dogan, and you recite the Trade Register. This is disrespectful to the MPs... [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u169	Mr. Mirchev, just please don't agress the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u170	...because of a specific question related to an obvious corruption scheme, all the arguments you use are the company's financial statements and things that we have seen in the Trade Register anyway. My request is that you answer my question to be a little more specific. And I'll show you. [[shows map]] This is Varna Lake from the Asparuh Bridge. [[DPS lines.]] And all the depth that's going on, colleagues, here what you see is at Mr. Dogan's gate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u171	Enough of this suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u172	Years of Agropolychim for years. [[DPS lines,]] "Twenty-day cement," "Solvey sodas" "some of the biggest Bulgarian enterprises..."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u173	Mr. Mirchev, ask your questions to Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u174	...one of the biggest Bulgarian enterprises wanted this deepening to be there. It didn't happen. It didn't happen. As soon as Mr. Dogan bought the TPP, the Bulgarian state sharply separated 400 million. lv. I'm just trying to be thorough.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u175	What is your question, Mr. Mirchev, to the Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u176	I'm asking the question right now. In this regard, colleagues, let me tell you about the Bulgarian Milli Vanilla in business. The Bulgarian Millie Vanilla in the business is Mr. Dogan who is supposed to be doing business [[DRF lines]] , however, the back of the state does all the work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u177	Mr. Mirchev, do you have a specific question?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u178	And my question to you, Minister, is this: how do you explain this extremely mobilizing behavior of the Bulgarian institutions to do all the work of deepening the channel at the moment when Mr. Dogan buys the TPP and not years before that? Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u179	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. It's the way it's supposed to be. And Mr. Letifov will show something too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u180	I'll show, of course. Madam President, it's not funny at all when... My procedure is in the way of conduct, as Mr. Mirchev and Mrs. Tsoneva, of course, we also have an interest in understanding the whole case, what happens to the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, but first I will show it to you, Madam President. [[shows magazine "Capital"]] Here, this media-oligaric NGO group to set the agenda of the Bulgarian Parliament is a facade democracy. It's called backstage.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u181	Mr. Letifov, let's follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u182	First it comes out in this media, then it goes on the agenda of the National Assembly. And today we're listening to suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u183	Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u184	Please Mr. Minister, but because my procedure is for you, Madam President, the suggestion to make them at home, for the tails of the cat, for their facade democracy, which they impose, and for what is a media-oligaric NGOs association that you see here, determines the agenda of Bulgarian politics, the Bulgarian people...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u185	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Unfortunately, it's 2:00 p.m. and the meeting is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u186	...and we all jump to the cat's will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u187	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u188	Mrs. Tsoneva, well, in the manner of conduct. I ask you not to turn the National Assembly into a tribune of conduct between two parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u189	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Mr Minister, honourable Members of the DPS! [[Displays from DPS: "In the way of driving! "]] Very please, calm down, it's the way you keep it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u190	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u191	I am glad that you are reading business publications, however, in relation to the manner of conduct, I would like to tell you the following thing -- besides that we are reading, we have sent signals to DFKI, to the prosecution and to all institutions about what is happening.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u193	So in the manner of conduct. I don't know what oligarchic NGO structure you're talking about. Yeah, it's nice that you're reading business publications, but it's not nice that you're closing your eyes to your leader Dogan's false business interest. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Milli Vanilla in the Bulgarian economy is you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-25.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Next plenary session tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
