ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please, registration mode. We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: Hearing on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov and of the Mayor of Sofia Municipality of Yordanka Fandakova in connection with the incident with the electrocuted youth in front of the Hospital Ivan Rilski. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. I suggest that this be point 5 of the program for today. Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before the upcoming vote, I am making a procedural proposal for a name check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u3	Thank you. Name check. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- here Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- here Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- here Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva- here Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Горги Александров Александров- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- here Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Donka Dimova Simeonova- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- here Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Elena Stefanova Pesheva- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Krastina Nikolova Taskova- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova- here Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Mikhaylov Savov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here So far we have 129 MPs, we have a quorum. We will proceed with the hearing. I put to the vote the proposal to include a item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u4	What's this point?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u5	I've already announced the point, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, we are voting on the proposal under art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the hearing. Vote 159 MPs: 50, against 94, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Do you want a procedure? I'm asking everyone who goes out for a procedure to announce what procedure they want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u6	Mr. Chairman, isn't that why I'm going to the stands to announce exactly what procedure I want?! Colleagues, it strikes me that you are already afraid to mention the Prime Minister's name. Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you embarrassed to try and keep covering up corruption and lawlessness in the country? [[(Noise and lines from GERB: "This is not true!" You are lying!]] Believe me, you can't cover it up because every Bulgarian citizen sees it because every Bulgarian citizen feels it because corruption and lawlessness...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u7	Mr. Prodanov, you are currently violating the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in the section under art. 57, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u8	...take people's lives. For this reason, Mr President, I call for a re-vote procedure and call on my fellow Members to really come to their senses...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u9	I'm warning you, don't break the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u10	...and to vote for the hearing of the President and Deputy Chairman of GERB Borisov and Fandakova! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u11	We want a re-voting procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u12	I shall re-vote the proposal made to include a item on the agenda. Vote 158 MPs: 52, Against 99, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] I will give you the floor for a procedure, but since I would not like to enter into controversy with regard to the procedure, I will ask all those who are speaking under procedure to be in accordance with art. 55, para. 2 Otherwise I will be forced to use what the Rules offer. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u13	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hristov, in your attempt to hide once again the Prime Minister and to hide all the outrage, you imposed an undeserved punishment on colleague Prodanov. I'm asking you to cancel it because he made a perfectly reasonable revoting procedure. [[speaking indistinctly]] And you took away his opportunity to explain the reasons for it, and you punished him. This way you will not hide Boyko Borisov from coming here. The Bulgarian people see that he does not want to come and be responsible for the outrage of his subordinates, so please cancel the punishment of colleague Prodanov because it is incorrect and undeserved and is in violation of the Rules. You have severely overrun the Rules of Procedure with such conduct, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. It's possible you didn't hear me. I did not impose punishment on Mr. Prodanov, but in accordance with this Rule of Procedure, I warned him as I should. The next step that this article proposes is the withdrawal of the floor. So he's not grounded. Punishment is another member. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. Are you guys on procedure, too?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and it is: to put the procedure taken by the parliamentary group to the vote again, because you did not only dare to mention the name, but did not even read the proposal of the parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear Mr. President, it is important, at least in our opinion, that when the MPs make any decision, they should be informed. It is your responsibility to make them as well informed as possible. For this reason, we have asked you several times to stop these people. [[GERB noise and lines]] who call out from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u16	I listen to you carefully. I listen to you carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u17	There's a tribune to come and talk to. They haven't spoken for a full term, and now they're yelling at the stands...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u18	Leave it. Your procedure is with me. I listen to you very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u19	My procedure for you is to put the procedure to the vote again and announce what is voted on. After a roll call check within twenty minutes, there is no way the entire parliamentary room knows what this is about. There is nothing scary about mentioning the name of Borisov, the name of Fandakova and the people who have to come to hear to find out: who patronizes lawlessness in Sofia, who authorises illegal pavilions?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u20	Please, to me. Your procedure is the way you conduct it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u21	It's not who turned on the cable, Mr. Chairman. It's who patronizes...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u22	No. Your procedure is to me in the manner of conduct. It's for me. Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u23	...the illegal sites in Sofia Municipality....that interest the capitals..the mayor, the Prime Minister? It's definitely not the electrician from CEZ.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u24	This is where you stray, and I'll go back to art. 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for leaving me a minute and fifty seconds without interrupting me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u26	Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, when we make procedures by the Bulgarian Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u28	Is it the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u29	Yeah, it's the way it is. ... You're taking the floor away from the coworkers. Thus, without them being able to justify their proposal, their procedure, taking away their word as President of the National Assembly, you cannot in any way hide the depraved person of corruption, but instead increase this effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u30	This has nothing to do with the way we conduct it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u31	Don't do this again! Do not cover up yet and every day Boyko Borisov! He hasn't seen the hall...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u32	Mr. Popov, I'm forced to remind you that you're deviating from the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u33	...of this National Assembly. We are a parliamentary republic. Don't be so rude...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u34	I'll remind you again. 57, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u35	Thanks for the reminder. Do not in such a rude way take the floor, jam the microphones of MPs. Boyko Borisov was supposed to come here...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u36	There's no connection between Boyko Borisov. I'm the one in charge of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u37	That's right, you're the one, and you keep interrupting the speaker. You can't...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u38	I'm obliged according to art. 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u39	You have to... If you want, get down to the stands and give your opinion. You cannot, when a Member of the National Assembly speaks when a Member of the National Assembly pronounces Boyko Borisov's name, immediately take his word away and turn off the microphones. You can't hide it! You cannot hide the corruption that lies in Bulgaria and which has led us to the bottom for more than ten years. No matter how much you turn off the microphones, that's not gonna happen. Don't do this because it is the National Assembly. The higher authority in a parliamentary republic. The National Assembly cannot proceed this way. We are a democratic rule of law, or at least we want to be one, and we claim to be one. You, with your actions including here in the National Assembly, lead Bulgaria to the bottom.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u40	Finish it, Mr. Popov. Thank you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u41	Yeah, I'm graduating. Don't take the word away from the MPs like that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I waited for you. [[(Strong noise, knocking on banks and lines from BSP for Bulgaria. Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u43	Colleagues, please remain calm. That's the point. We continue with the next item of our work programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODECTION CODECTION CODEX. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 15 January 2021. "Access to amend and supplement the Social Security Code.' The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vessela Lecheva, Violeta Zheleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadya Klisurska-Zekova and Polina Shishkova: In § 1, the new content of para. 1 of art. 4b is amended as follows: 1 The persons insured in a universal pension fund shall have the right to choose to change their insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund of Pensions, respectively in the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69s, with an increased contribution of an insurance contribution to a universal pension fund, if they are not granted a pension for internship and age, or from a universal pension fund. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), 1 The persons insured in a universal pension fund shall have the right to choose to change their insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund of Pensions, respectively in the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69s, with an increased contribution in the amount of the social contribution to a universal pension fund, if they are not granted a pension for internship and age, and they reach the age required for them under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1: 1. from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2025 ? no later than one year before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2. from 1 January 2026 to 31 December 2030 ? no later than two years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 3. from 1 January 2031 to 31 December 2035 ? no later than three years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) 4. from 1 January 2036 to 31 December 2037 ? no later than 4 years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, 5. after 1 January 2038 ? no later than 5 years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u45	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before I begin on the substance of the point, allow me to express my ambiguity: why is there no representative of the importer here with perhaps one of the most important legislative changes adopted by the National Assembly for this term?! At least here should be the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and listen to the debates, because this affects life, and whatever else you want, to two and a half million Bulgarian citizens, that even more, and I would say to all, to all Bulgarian citizens. But this attitude towards Parliament's work is not new, so it actually does not surprise me. Now get to the point. § 1 provides for the transfer of the accumulated contributions from private pension funds to the NSI and § 7 is the opposite. With our proposal for amendments to § 1 and § 7 respectively under art. Art. 46, Art. 124a, we create the possibility for insured persons to be entitled to opt for a change of their insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund of Pensions.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 69 and vice versa, with an increased contribution of an insurance contribution to a universal pension fund, if they are not granted a pension for retirement and age or from a universal pension fund and vice versa. I mean, to be able to make choices until they're retired. We are aware that both I and the colleagues with whom we have made the proposal that the payment of pension supplements under the second pillar of the private pension funds of the insured persons must begin in September 2021 and any delay in the adoption of the changes will result in serious turmoil and discontent, and any new proposal tabled, especially one that changes quite seriously the transfer, will cause changes in the other texts of the Law and this will delay its entire adoption. I ask myself the question: are the expectations of the insured persons answered, to what extent are the proposed changes fair and why is this to the detriment of the people every time? In the present case, Article 7 of § 1 and § 7. Article 124a 46 The envisaged amendments concerning the moment after which no change in the provision of a universal professional fund in state social security can be made, are they at all fair? I will not repeat the reasons of the opinion of the Financial Supervision Commission, because the proposed amended periods in art. Art. 46, Art. 124a is not working for the benefit of the insured persons, but I will supplement them. After 18 years of making people wander around and not knowing what's going on with their own insurance money in private funds, mostly how they're going to get it, we're now denying them an opportunity to make an informed choice again. And an informed choice can be made only at the moment when they acquire the right to a pension and know the conditions and rules at this time, including for calculating the amount of their pension from the first pillar. There the pension is subject to numerous political decisions, with the rules over time and changing policies in the pension system changing and the pension can become unexpectedly different. I'm not going to give the 2002 example, but I'm just going to say that five years is too long a time to make any changes. For example, if you chose a pension from the first pillar, supplemented by the second pillar supplements, but then politically increased the burden of each year in the formula for calculating the pension from the first pillar and thus made it more profitable for the insured person to receive his pension only from the NSI. Here, I give you just one example that if the person makes five years in advance the choice will be damaged in the coming moments. In order to make the most of the possibility of changing the insurance, this can only be done if a proper change is envisaged to ensure that the pension right of the public or universal pension funds is exercised. The other one's a lottery. That is why we offer the envisaged deadlines in art. 46 of the Code of Social Security and Article 46 of the Code of Social Security 124a to be dropped, i.e. to waive the limitation on the exercise of the right to change the provision to a certain number of years before retirement age. Naturally, this must be done when transferring from the NSI to the universal funds, which governs the right to resume insurance funds. And I will conclude by saying that if you support our proposal, it will increase the opportunity for workers to reduce the losses they would otherwise suffer if they had to choose their insurance in a private fund or at the National Insurance Institute five years earlier or as provided in the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. A line? Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u48	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Gokov, the proposal you are making under § 1 is related to the possibility of the insured persons at any time to transfer the funds from their individual accounts to the National Insurance Institute without knowing that this poses certain risks. What kind of risks? You, in the following proposals, say that back from the National Insurance Institute, persons are at any time entitled to transfer the collected amounts into individual accounts. But in the time when these funds will be at the National Insurance Institute, there will be no investment for them, there will be no income for them, which is not in the interest of the insured persons. I understand your desire to have freedom of choice about when to transfer, but it is much more important for those who pay, in this case private pension funds, to have predictability. This predictability is given in the Commission's proposal in § 1, in a step-by-step increase in the period from one to five years to 2038 in order to be able to be predictable in order to have the corresponding yield, because in subsequent texts we accept the understanding that contributions of insured persons must be guaranteed. In order to be able to guarantee this yield in order to ensure the gross social contributions to individual accounts, there must be predictability. This predictability can be realised in the way in which this is done in the proposal under § 1. So the proposal you are making right now is not in line with the interests of the insured persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any other lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Ademov, there may be some logic in your speech in general. However, I would not agree with one thing with you that the way it is done is entirely in favor of insured persons. Once again, I don't know who will answer my question, because neither representatives of the importers have, nor representatives of anyone who can answer these questions, but: how will the interest of a person who, at the time of retirement, chooses to be provided by private funds and public insurance, not only by state social security, and in those five years when he made the choice, have politically changed the conditions for retirement in the first pillar? Then he won't be able to make an informed decision. Everything else you're saying about whether there should be a guarantee fund that complements the money that will be returned from the Silver Fund in the private fund, whoever it is, are technical details. I am far from thinking that we, as parliamentarians, as MPs, should completely rewrite the Law. We ask things in principle, and in the case of our proposal we explain how each of the insured persons is deprived of the opportunity to make an informed choice. We have been doing this not now, we have been doing this for 19 years since 2002, and now I have had great hope that with the proposals, with the changes in the Social Security Code, these things will be overcome. Unfortunately, this last-minute transfer or at some point has its supporters, has its opponents, and each with their arguments protects one or the other. My conviction, and the fellow Members who made this proposal, is that this is the way to do it at the time of retirement that the person can choose where to get his pension. It is true that this will damage state social security, the Pension Fund, in many cases, but what are the people's faults that in 2000 such a reform was made with the entry into force of 2002 that people would wander and not know what to do, and now we are suddenly defending the interests of the State Fund, not defending the interests of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u51	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal made by our parliamentary group relates to the right to choose, because it is in our hands to decide when this right to choose for the insured persons should occur. We all know that in 2001, when this reform was made and the compulsory second supplementary pension insurance entered under the second pension pillar for all insured persons born after 1959, it was clear that they, when retiring, would be entitled to a second additional pension from such a universal pension fund. Unfortunately for me, now, 20 years later, with the texts that we look at and are at our attention, it becomes clear that first, insured persons who do not have the accumulated insurance service, because it is only within 20 years and not 40 years, as necessary for retirement in age and internship, will not be entitled to the additional pension from a universal pension fund. It is here that the confusion of a very large part of the insured persons comes about what to do with their contributions, which they are obliged to contribute. Unfortunately for me, of all the texts, and especially of the texts that the Financial Supervision Commission made during the first reading of this bill, it became clear that the protection of insured persons is not sufficient. It is not enough and this will be seen in the subsequent texts, which we will consider text by text. It is clear in them that insured persons under the second pension pillar will receive almost the gross value of their contributions and contributions. And that's their guarantee, that's their protection only so far. That is precisely why we are making our proposal. The persons insured when it comes to the right to start receiving this additional supplement, not within five years of their retirement, but to have the opportunity immediately before retirement informed to take their decision, which is in their interest. That is why we want there to be no limit on these deadlines, because the two pension pillars are completely different. The first pillar is linked to a solidarity system and the second is linked to a capital roof system.................................................................................................... But to my great regret, it becomes clear to all of us that if we go on the website of the Financial Supervision Commission and the pensioners' websites, we will see that people's accounts and deposits within these 20 years are extremely low and they cover only what people have imported. Without the relevant interest, we don't give them any guarantee. It is there that all this risk lies and the need to give all insured persons the opportunity to make an informed choice when they retire, regardless of these time limits. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Mr. Ademov, you're going to replicate me. Not five years, but at a time when retirement comes, then these people have to make that decision. And this is our proposal to protect insured persons, not pension corporations. I would like to say that the vision of our parliamentary group is such a protection of ordinary workers who are obliged to import under this pension pillar. They do not choose whether to import, they are obliged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u54	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs Klisurska, if you read further in the Report the texts adopted at the Commission meeting, unfortunately, at this meeting at second reading you were not present, and not just you, but your entire parliamentary group, in order to hear the discussion. [[Applause from GERB.]] During this discussion it became clear that in the way you make the proposal, the interest of the insured persons cannot be protected. You are proposing, although you have confused this proposal with some of the following text, by which you deprive insured persons of the opportunity to accumulate income if their funds are on individual accounts. At the moment that a person with an individual account in a private pension fund is transferred to the National Insurance Institute, you understand that in this period, whatever he is, two, three or five years, however this period is, there will be no investment, there will be no profitability. Then, when they return to the private pension fund, whatever proposal you make in the following texts, they will seek to have income, they will seek to have guarantees for their insurance contributions, for the gross amount of their social contributions. You even suggest that there are guarantees for interest rates. In order for this to happen, I understand your idea to be over-protected the interest of insured persons, but there must be separate tools for realising this guarantee. There must be separate guarantee funds, and such a thing you do not offer in your texts. You offer separate individual, some proposals that in no way fit into the philosophy of proposals by the project importer. In order to be able to implement what you are proposing, we need to re-examine the Social Security Code for the project in order for these guarantee funds to be able to have the tools to recover the income and interest that you are talking about in the next proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any other lines? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, you said you were a defender of the interests of the insured persons. Since you are such a rider, why didn't the entire parliamentary group, who are members of the Labour and Social Policy Committee, attend the second reading of your proposals in the Labour and Social Policy Committee? You have other suggestions. No representative of yours has come to defend his proposals on this important bill, which is extremely difficult and extremely useful, both for insured persons who are provided in the second pillar and for pensioners. What do you suggest? In practice, what Dr. Ademov also said, until the last moment, the arbitrarily insured persons in a universal pension fund can transfer their insurance to the Fund of the State Social Security to the last moment and without restrictions. That sounds really good. Very good sounds populist, but this is an unbalanced approach. Because the continuous and arbitrary transfer of these funds would lead to compromising the elements of the pension system, to a breach of its stability, to the guarantees of the insured persons. So there is no way to accept this proposal of yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Is there a third line? Mrs. Jeleva, come in. The line is a brief disagreement on the substance of the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, in your speech you forgot to note the fact that we at the first vote on this bill clearly and categorically stated that we are abstaining. Why? Yes, these changes are extremely necessary, but they are made again in six to ten days until the term of office of this government expires. And this bill is extremely important for hundreds of thousands of pensioners. We will quickly make several changes now, which, notice, from GERB offer almost the entire bill to be revised with over 34 proposals that are fundamentally different from the philosophy at first reading. Why are you trying here now, manipulating that if you see us changing philosophy? That is not the case, honourable Members. That's what you forgot to say, Mrs. Klisurska. About the other thing you also neglected to say is that this proposal is not just ours. This proposal was made by trade unions and private pension funds. So this proposal is not... [[Heckling]] It's true, I have opinions. This proposal is supported by the funds. They also share that before the right to retirement people must have a choice and then decide whether to transfer their accounts to the NSI. Because there are no negatives of transferring their funds. Because we all know that these accounts have shares. Shares are transferred, not cash. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mrs. Klisurska, after this challenge of your speech, including representatives of your parliamentary group, please come in for a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is clear to all of you in this Chamber, and I believe the Bulgarian citizens, that the issue of the second pension pillar hangs with many questions. It hangs with a lot of questions, because the legislation we are currently making is legislation that has been made at the last minute. The working group has tabled texts that are now completely different and they are in view of what the Financial Supervision Commission has done at the last moment. The thirty-four proposals of colleagues from the GERB parliamentary group radically changed the texts in the Social Security Code and radically changed the guarantee regarding what the insured persons will receive. Mr. Ademov was talking about investments and income. What investments and yields like all of us are clear and it is evident that there is no income at the moment for the people who are going to retire now? That's why the different packages are available. What stability in the pension system is Mrs. Angelova talking about, given that we all know that in the budget of state social security every year the state finances this pension system? What are you talking about right now, since the second pension pillar is a completely different type of insurance!? It's a completely different type of operation. A completely different type of capital, investment funding and ultimately operating with the accounts of the persons concerned. Diverse systems and we must give the right to every Bulgarian citizen, immediately before retirement, to make this decision. Today, with these texts, we make this decision for those who will retire tomorrow, and we predict the inability of others who will retire in 10 years after 15 years to not have this technological opportunity. This is why I believe our proposal is much more sensible and much more protective of the insured persons. Yes, indeed, Mr. Ademov, we want a super-warranty for the insured persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any other statements on the name and the paragraph? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put the name of the bill to the vote. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The name of the bill is accepted. I put to the vote the unacceptable proposal of the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. They voted 100 MPs: 30, against 49, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1 in the version of the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 68 against 8, abstention 28. Paragraph 1 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u62	Proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Nikolay Sirakov, Ralitsa Dobreva, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zhelyazkova, Rumen Genov, Julian Papasimov, Emil Tonchev and Dimitar Gechev to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it, the words which are established and managed by pension companies authorised under this Code or by companies for additional voluntary unemployment insurance and/or professional qualifications shall be replaced by the ones referred to hereinafter as supplementary social security funds. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: 2 The insurance payments shall be made by individual accounts in the supplementary social security funds and by the payment funds. (3) The Funds under para. 1 and 2 shall be established and managed by pension companies authorised under this Code or by companies for additional voluntary unemployment insurance and/or professional qualification, hereinafter referred to as the "Governed Funds" and the "Additional Social Insurance Companies." Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120b, para. 1 and 2 the words the additional social security funds shall be replaced by the funds they manage. Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the word "supplier' is deleted; 2. In para. 6, p. 2 after his words the policy in question shall be added with the rules of the Fund for the making of payments and the words shall be added. 123e, para. 4 t. 5 letters.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 6 and 8 shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................... 123e, para. 4 t. 6 Under § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Article 121c is amended as follows: Art. 121c (1) The Pension Insurance Company may issue only nameless non-personal shares with the right to one vote. (2) The minimum amount of capital of the pension insurance company shall be 7,5 million. lv. (3) The capital of the pension insurance company must be fully paid with cash contributions at the date of submission of the application for a pension licence, respectively at the date of submission of the application for entry in the commercial register. The contributions to the capital of the pension insurance company of the founders and shareholders shall not be made by means of lending, by means of unproven origin or by means resulting from criminal or other illegal activity. (4) The pension insurance company shall at any time have sufficient own funds to cover the solvency limit. (5) The own funds of the pension insurance company shall consist of its assets reduced by intangible assets and its foreseeable liabilities. The own funds shall include the reserve under art. 192, para. 2 and reserves under Art. 2 shall not be included. 193, para. Art. 8 and art. 193a. (6) The solvency limit shall be the minimum amount of the own funds of the pension insurance company which is necessary as an additional guarantee for the fulfilment of commitments to pay life pensions and deferred payments with guarantees. The solvency limit amounts to 4 per cent of the capitalised value of these pensions and deferred payments, but not less than 7,5 million. lv. (7) The pension insurance company shall maintain at least 75 per cent of the own funds covering the solvency limit under para. 6 in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 s 4 and deposits under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 5 in banks that are not in bankruptcy proceedings. (8) The pension insurance company shall not distribute dividends in size and in a way that would lead to breach of the requirements of para. 4, 6 and 7. (9) When the own funds of the pension insurance company fall below the amount laid down in para. 6, it shall notify the Commission within three days and submit within 14 days of the reduction of own funds below the required amount of a rescue programme to bring them into line with the requirements of this Code. Where non-compliance is established by the Vice-President of the Commission, the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission shall order the Pension Insurance Company to draw up a rescue programme within a period which may not be longer than 14 days. (10) The period to cover one third of the solvency limit but not less than 7,5 million. BGN, may not be longer than 6 months and the time limit for reaching the limit of solvency is not longer than 12 months. (11) The Commission shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission, approve or refuse to approve the rescue programme within 14 days of its receipt. The Commission refuses to approve the programme where the proposed measures do not sufficiently guarantee the solvency of the pension insurance company or the interests of insured persons, pensioners or their successors. (12) During the period of implementation of the rescue programme, the pension insurance company shall not distribute dividends and should pay the full amount of profits after tax in the Fund. (13) If the programme is not approved or if the approved programme is not defaulted, the Commission shall take the action under art. 344, para. 2, p. 7,19 and/or 20. (14) The Commission shall determine by regulation: 1. the structure and elements of the pension fund's own funds and the way they are calculated; 2. the way to calculate the solvency limit; 3. the minimum liquidity of the company and the funds it manages; 4. the requirements for the investment of the own funds covering the limit of solvency under para. 6; 5. the structure and content of the healing program. (15) When financial supervision is established that the pension insurance company has calculated the amount of reserves it is obliged to create under this Code, the value of assets, liabilities, revenues and costs or other indicators in breach of this Code and its implementing acts, the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission may order a new calculation of each of those indicators to be carried out. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 2 The Pension Insurance Company may benefit from loans of up to 10 per cent of the amount required under art. 121c, para. 6 for a period of not more than 6 months to provide liquidity to cover reserves under art. 192, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 213, para. 2. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121e the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 18 after the words the supplementary insurance fund shall be added to the payment fund. 2. In para. 19 the words "the supplementary insurance fund' are replaced by "the relevant fund'. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121e, para. 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "insured persons and pensioners' shall be replaced by "insured persons, pensioners and their beneficiaries' and the word "retirement' shall be deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the word "retirement" shall also be deleted and the words "insured persons and pensioners" shall be replaced by "insured persons, pensioners and beneficiaries." Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122a, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 after the words the supplementary insurance funds shall be added to the payment funds. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 words.............................................................................. 123e, para. 4 t. 5 letters..................................................................................................... 6 "8" shall be replaced by "c." 123e, para. 4 t. 6 Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122e the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the title, the words "supplier' are deleted. 2. In the text, the words for supplementary insurance are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u63	I shall open the debates referred to in paragraphs 2 to 10 with the amended numbering by the Commission. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I am voting: the new paragraphs 2, 3, 4; the old § 2, which becomes § 5 with the wording of the Commission; and the new paragraphs 6 to 10 inclusive. They voted 103 MPs: for 76, against no, abstention 27. The above paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u64	Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122f, para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words for supplementary insurance are deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the words the own funds (the capital base) shall be replaced by the own funds, the share premium limit and the share premium. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122 and the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words for supplementary insurance and reinsurance are deleted. 2. In para. 4 t. 2 the words for supplementary insurance shall be deleted and the words for the organisation and activities of the supplementary insurance funds managed by the respective pension company shall be replaced by the acts referred to in art. 121, para. 6, p. 2 and 3 Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122k, para. 1, t. 4 words for supplementary insurance are also deleted after the words "insured person'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 14. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the supplementary insurance fund shall be added to the payment fund. 2. In para. 2 in the text before t. 1 the words "the supplementary compulsory pension fund and the supplementary voluntary pension fund' shall be replaced by "the supplementary compulsory pension fund', "the supplementary voluntary pension fund' and "the payment fund'. 3. In para. 4. (a) c. 1, 2 and 3 after the words (b) c. 4 after the words the supplementary insurance fund shall be added to each payment fund and shall be added; (c) c. 5 and 6 after the words of the supplementary insurance fund, the payment fund shall be added. (d) point 7 is amended as follows: "7." ensure that in the case of asset transactions of the supplementary pension fund and the payment fund all payments are transferred to the relevant fund within the normal time limits; (e) c. 8 after the words (f) c. 9 after the words the supplementary insurance fund shall be added to the payment fund. 4. In para. 5 after the words the supplementary insurance fund shall be added, or the payment fund shall be added. 5. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: For the purposes of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: . (8) All cash of the supplementary pension fund and the payment fund shall be entered into the guarantee bank. Within 5 working days, the pension insurance company shall give the guarantee bank written orders for the investment of the cash received by the supplementary pension fund. 7. In para. 10 the words of the Rules of Procedure for the organisation and activity of the supplementary pension fund and its investment policy shall be replaced by the Rules of Procedure for the organisation and activity of the supplementary pension fund, its investment policy and the rules of the payment fund. 8. In para. 11 after the words the supplementary insurance fund shall be added to the payment fund. 9. In para. 13 after the words the supplementary insurance fund shall be commaed and added to the payment fund. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 after the words..funds for additional insurance is added..and funds for making payments.. 2. In para. 7, p. 1 after the words the pension fund (s) shall be added to the payment fund (s). 3. In para. 11 after the words the supplementary insurance fund shall be added to the payment fund. 4. In para. 13 the words "the supplementary compulsory pension fund and the supplementary voluntary pension fund' shall be replaced by "the additional compulsory pension fund', "the supplementary voluntary pension fund' and "the payment fund'. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123d, para. 8, p. 4 the words for supplementary insurance and reinsurance are deleted. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123d, para. 2 the words the supplementary insurance funds shall be replaced by the funds it has established. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123e, para. 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 5. It's five o'clock. the rules of each payment fund; 2. Previously on "T." 5 and 6 become ct, respectively. 6 and 7. 3. Previously on "T." 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7. 8 and in it the words for supplementary insurance are deleted. 4. Previously on "T." 8 becomes t. 9 and in it, the words "the supplementary insurance funds' shall be replaced by the funds it manages. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123e1, para. 1 words for additional insurance and reinsurance shall be deleted. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123e2, para. 2, p. 5 the word "supplier" is replaced by "actualization and "supplier." Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Nikolay Sirakov, Ralitsa Dobreva, Claudia Gancheva and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123g, para. 3 the word "retirement' is deleted. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123z, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 123z2, Under § 4 there is a proposal from Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123h2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) a new item shall be created. 2: "2." to introduce persons who intend to enter into a pension contract or contract for deferred payment of funds under art. 167a, para. 1 with the rules of the relevant payment fund and provide them with a certified copy of it upon request; b) the current t. 2 becomes t. 3; c) the current t. 3 becomes t. 4 and in it the words speak. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) (d) the so-called t. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to (e) create a t. 6: It's six. to send free of charge to the persons receiving payments from the deferred payment fund by 31 May each year an extract from the analytical accounts under art. 192b, para. 3 under which their funds are kept for the previous calendar year and provide them with information on their analytical accounts upon request. 2. In para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I 3. In para. 3, after the words "supplied lot" "s" shall be added to the data in the analytical account referred to in art. 192b, para. 3 under which his funds are being transferred. 4. A new para is being created. 5. In the event of the acquisition of an additional pension, the insured person shall be entitled to receive on request: 1. of the pension insurance company managing the fund in which the person is insured, information on: (a) the amount of the accrued funds on its individual account and, in the case of provision in a universal pension fund, the amount of the amount of the gross amount of the contributions received under art. 131, para. 2 ssssssssssssssssss; (b) the types of payments offered, the means of recalculating and updating them, the rights of the heirs and the estimated amount of the first pension, respectively the duration and estimated amount of the deferred payment, according to the information referred to in point (a) and the formula for the corresponding type of payment determined by the ordinance under art. 169, para. 14, respectively in the actuarial estimates of the occupational pension fund, the supplementary voluntary pension fund or the supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes; 2. the information under point 2. 1 point (b) of point (b) of point (b) of point (c) of point (c) of point (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 5. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7. 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and it in the text before t. 1 words "al." 1 "6' is replaced by "al'. 1.. 7............................................................................... 7. Previously on AMC's... 8, 9, 10 and 11 become respectively. 9, 10, 11 and 12. 8. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 13 and in it the words are said. 1, t. 2, 3 and 4 and shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... 1, t. Three, four, five, and six, and the words "al." 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) According to § 5 of the importer there is a proposal from Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123h3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the words "months following each quarter' shall be replaced by "months'. 2. The creation of para. 4. The Pension Insurance Company shall notify the National Revenue Agency: 1. for each insured person in a universal pension fund with which he enters into a pension contract or contract for deferred payment under art. 167a, para. 1, within three working days of the conclusion of the contract; 2. for each insured person to whom a lump sum is paid under art. 167a, para. 2, within three working days of the granting of the payment. According to § 6 an importer there is a proposal from Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123 and the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 3 the words for supplementary insurance are deleted. 2. A new para is being created. 6: . (6) Pension insurance companies shall have the right to organise and participate in loyal client programmes in conjunction with commercial chains, financial institutions, public service operators and other persons in favour of pensioners and insured persons. 3. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7. There is a proposal from Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1232, para. 2 the words "the additional insurance funds" shall be replaced by the funds managed by the company and shall be replaced by "the funds managed by the company." Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123l the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 9 words.............................................................................. 344, para. 2, p. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament 2. In para. 10 words.............................................................................. 121c, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u65	I shall open the debates referred to in paragraphs 11 to 28 with a new numbering. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the new paragraphs 11, 12 and 13; § 3, which shall become § 14, by importer; the new paragraphs 15 to 23 including; § 4, by importer, which shall become § 24 in the version of the Commission; § 5, which shall become § 25 in the version of the Commission; § 6, which shall become § 26 in the version of the Commission; and the new paragraphs 27 and 28. They voted 101 MPs: 77, none, abstention 24. The above paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u66	Under § 7 an importer has a proposal from Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: ,,§ 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124a, para. 1 words not later than 5 years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 is deleted and the Union is replaced by a The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124a para. 1 is amended as s (1) the persons referred to in art. 4b, para. 1 which have chosen to change their insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund of Pensions, respectively in the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69s, they may choose to resume their insurance in a universal pension fund if they are not granted a retirement pension for internship and age and reach the age required for them under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1: 1. from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2025 ? no later than one year before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2. from 1 January 2026 to 31 December 2030 ? no later than two years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 3. from 1 January 2031 to 31 December 2035 ? no later than three years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) 4. from 1 January 2036 to 31 December 2037 ? no later than 4 years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, 5. after 1 January 2038 ? no later than 5 years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u67	I open the debates under § 7, as well as on the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. They voted 93 MPs: 20, against 60, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 7, which shall become § 29 in the version of the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 71, against 5, abstention 13. The text of § 7, which becomes § 29, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u68	Under § 8 of the importer there is a proposal from Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127 new paras are being created. 6 and 7: ? (6) Where a person notified under art. 123z3, para. 4, begin or continue to engage in employment for which it is subject to insurance in a universal pension fund, the pension insurance company with which the person has entered into a pension contract or contract for deferred payment under art. 167a, para. 1 shall disclose to the person a new individual account in the fund in which it is provided, with the receipt of the first contribution following the conclusion of the contract concerned. For contributions that accumulate in the account in this order, the guarantee under art. 131, para. 2... 5........................................................................... (7) Paragraph 6 shall also apply where, after the conclusion of a pension contract or a deferred payment contract under art. 167a, para. 1 Insurance contributions due for the month of conclusion of the contract or for previous months shall be entered into.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u69	Paragraph 8 statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of § 8, which shall become § 30, in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u70	Vote 85 MPs: 72 against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u71	Proposal by Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs: screated § 8a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129, para. 12 a comma shall be placed after the word "persons' and added to at least the gross amount of the contributions made and the amounts of interest on them. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u72	Statements? Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we are making for § 8a is that the insured persons, when receiving their second pension, are entitled not only to receive the gross value or what they have paid on their accounts but also the interest on them. If we look at what will happen in § 9 in art. 131, para. 2, we will see that what is currently proposed as a proposal is to ensure the amount of the contributions, as much as their gross value, without taking into account inflation at all, without taking into account interest rates at all. I believe that this is extremely unacceptable because all insured persons are obliged to contribute their social security contributions to pensioners. It doesn't make any sense for you to have that obligation and then get the same money. The guarantee is for the same money you made, without all this operating with these funds in pension companies. I would like to draw your attention to the opinion of the Financial Supervision Commission as regards what is proposed under art. 131, para. 2. They say: "What you propose in these texts means providing a low guarantee, especially during long periods with high interest rates, respectively increased inflation. That is why it is our proposal to protect the insured persons, with a view to obtaining what is due to them and not just gross added value. And it must be made clear to everyone that at the moment they will only receive what they have imported, a large part of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u74	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, what you are proposing right now is related to some of the proposals you had made earlier. This is about the possibility that at any time the funds from individual accounts of private pension funds can be transferred back to the National Insurance Institute. In this transfer, you want to have an additional guarantee in addition to the gross amount of insurance contributions. The additional guarantee shall also be interest on these social security contributions. At first glance, it sounds wonderful, sounds perfect. However, the question is how can it be realized? Self, the way the proposal is made, without other changes to the Social Security Code, will not happen. Why? Because in order for this interest to be guaranteed, there must be a separate guarantee fund. In order to guarantee this additional interest, there must be additional reserves. These reservations are not scheduled. If you think the existing reserves from the other funds can be used, that can't happen. I'll give you an example. Government securities if, for example, private pension funds are invested in government securities, over 10 years, the yield of them is 0,5% - 0,5% - over ten years of yield. And in this period, how much is inflation? Inflation is 1.5 If we want interest to further strengthen the money transferred from the private fund at any time, because you propose that a unique financial instrument will be guaranteed every day, on a daily basis, at any moment when the person wants to transfer the money from the private pension fund to the NSI, to have a guarantee of its interest. What if in this period there is an adverse situation on the stock exchanges, if in this period private pension funds cannot in any way guarantee this yield, how will this work happen without additional instruments, without having, notice, a new more aggressive investment policy? If the investment portfolio is not signed in the way in which to satisfy the conservative character of the second pillar at the moment, as the laws are described, there is no way without additional aggressive instruments to rely on higher interest rates and on higher profitability so that we can transfer that money at any time with interest at the National Insurance Institute. Therefore, I say that this proposal could be accepted if the other instruments are created to enable the realization of this proposal. Otherwise, the way the Social Security Code is currently signed, that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u76	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Ademov, you are right about the supplementary guarantee fund and that we do not open the subject on it, but let us return to the genesis of the problem that has arisen. Three years a working group has been creating texts. These texts currently have nothing to do with what went through the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. These texts have nothing to do with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's proposal, with the texts of the importer, a radically different change! See the opinion of the Financial Supervision Commission. See what they say exactly by these paragraphs and by those articles we are commenting on right now! They want more guarantees, they want more protection. There's been some balance, but with what we're doing at second reading, we've radically changed...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u78	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u79	We changed it. Currently there is a balance between the opinion of the C.F.R.S. and what came out of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We do, however, and I stressed it several times... [[Replications aside from the microphones by the MP Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u80	I'll give you my word, Mr. Ademov, to disprove...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u81	...we really want an additional guarantee for the insured persons and for their accounts, a guarantee to ensure that when they have imported a certain amount, this amount, after operating with it, people draw some benefits from it. That's our offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u82	Thank you. Mr. Ademov, would you like a statement? No. You've made your point. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. They voted 93 MPs: 20, against 64, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u83	Under § 9 an offer is made by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... Article 131 is amended as follows: "Determining pensions and other payments in the event of an acquired pension right Art. 131. (1) The pension shall be determined according to art. 169 on the basis of the funds of the individual account accumulated at the date of its determination, depending on the contributions made and the other contributions received under the individual account, the income from their investment and the fees collected and deductions. (2) Where the amount of the funds on the individual account of an insured person in a universal pension fund accumulated at the date of the determination of the payment is less than the amount of the gross amount of the contributions transferred by the National Revenue Agency and the National Insurance Institute for the person concerned, before the payment of a pension or of a lump sum or deferred payment under art. 167a, para. 1 and 2, the individual account shall be supplemented to that amount by the reserve under art. 193a, para. 1. (3) When comparing the accumulated funds of the individual account with the sum of the gross amount of the social contributions: 1. the transferred funds under art. 1 shall not be taken into account. 172 and the income from their investment; 2. of the gross amount of the contributions transferred shall be excluded from the part of the contributions corresponding to the contributions paid under art. 139 para. 1, t. 2. (4) The part of the contributions under para. 3, p. 2 shall be determined on the basis of the total amount of contributions received on the account of the person at the date of granting the payment under art. 139 para. 1, t. 2, and the ratio between this payment and the total amount of the account funds. (5) Additional life pensions for old age and one-off and deferred payments under art. 167a, para. 1 and 2 shall be calculated on the basis of the means of the individual account after its addition pursuant to para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 172. "...................................................................................... Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 133a: "Establishment, management and representation of payment funds Art. 133a. (1) For the payment of the extra life-saving old-age pensions when providing in a universal pension fund each pension insurance company managing a universal pension fund shall establish a fund for the payment of life-saving pensions. (2) For the payment of deferred payments under art. 167a, para. 1 When providing each pension insurance company that manages a universal pension fund, it shall set up a deferred payment fund. (3) The Funds under para. 1 and 2, the "payment funds" shall be set up for an indefinite period. (4) The pension insurance company may establish only one fund for the payment of life pensions and only one fund for deferred payments. (5) Payment funds shall be separate assets which are managed and represented to third parties only by pensioners who have established them. (6) The assets of the funds for making payments may not fulfil the obligations of the pension fund and the funds managed by it, except for the contracts concluded for the payment of additional life-saving pensions for old age and deferred payments under art. 167a, para. 1. (7) Obligations to persons receiving payments from payment funds may not be fulfilled by means of supplementary pension funds. (8) In the management of the funds for making payments shall apply respectively art. 126..................................................... § 10 under importer there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 33. ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence first, the first sentence shall be added to the payment fund (s) and in a sentence second words (s) to cover the pension reserve under art. 192, para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 192, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 193a, para. 1.................................................................................. 2. In para. 2 after the words the pension funds....are added....and the funds for making Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 135 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: The name of the pension funds and the payment funds. 2. A new para is being created. 2: 2 The name of each payment fund shall contain the words "the fund for the payment of life-saving claims" or "the fund for payments made" according to its type and an indication to the company of the pension insurance company that manages it. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and finally added to it the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 35. .............................................................................. Article 136 is amended as follows: Art. 136. The assets of the supplementary compulsory pension funds and the payment funds may not be acquired by virtue of a claim. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12 which shall become § 37. Under § 13 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. New t. is being created. 8 and 9: It's 8 o'clock. the pensions under art. 167, para. 4, the conditions for granting them, the risks covered and how to determine the amount of payments; 9. the arrangements and time limits for examining the requests of the insured persons for the granting of pensions and one-off and deferred payments and the documents which apply to them; 2. Previously on "T." 8 becomes t. 10 and in it the words the order and the terms are replaced by the order, the way, the time limits and the cost. 3. A new t. is created. 11: "11." the terms, arrangements, arrangements and time-limits for updating and reclaiming pensions and deferred payments; 4. Previously on "T." 9 " 13" becomes pcs, respectively. 12x16. 5. Previously on "T." 14 becomes t. 17 and in it, the words "the claim for the payment of life-cycles' shall be replaced by the corresponding payment funds and the reserve to ensure the payment of life-cycles'; 6. Previously on "T." 15 is going to be t. 18 and amended as follows: 18. the order and manner of ensuring the minimum return on investment of the funds of the insured persons and on the gross amount of the contributions transferred to a universal pension fund and the provision for such reserves; 7. Previously on "T." 16 is going to be t. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 39. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 144a: scruitment of the Fund for the making of payments Art. 144a. (1) The rules of the Fund for payment shall be adopted by the management body of the pension insurance company together with the decision to set up that fund. (2) The rules of para. 1 shall contain: 1. the name of the fund; 2. the name, seat and address of the management of the pension insurance company which manages it; 3. pensions under art. 167, para. 4 respectively, the deferred payment under art. 167a, para. 1 carried out by the fund, the way they are defined and the risks covered; 4. the terms, arrangements, arrangements and deadlines for making payments; 5. the costs of making payments; 6. the terms and conditions of the update and recalculation of payments; 7. the objectives, requirements and restrictions of the investment policy of the fund; 8. the methods and frequency of evaluation of the assets of the fund; 9. the conditions and arrangements for keeping the analytical accounts in the deferred payment fund; 10. the order and manner of covering a shortage in the fund; 11. the amount of the fee collected by the pension insurance company; 12. the rights and obligations of the pension insurance company, of persons receiving payments and of their heirs; 13. the order and manner of providing information to the persons receiving payments and to their successors, and to notices and communications relating to the activities of the fund; 14. the arrangements for amendments and additions to the rules; 15. an explicit indication of the retention of rights of persons with granted payments prior to the adoption of the relevant change in rules, and their heirs and their commitments; 16. the dates of the adoption of the rules and of subsequent amendments and additions thereto. (3) When applying for a pension or for a single or deferred payment under art. 167a, para. 1 and 2 The insured person shall receive, upon request, a certified copy of the Fund's rules for making the relevant type of payment acting on the date of submission of the application. (4) In carrying out amendments and additions to the rules of the Fund for making payments the rights of the persons receiving payments and of their heirs and the obligations undertaken by pensioners to them shall be maintained unless otherwise agreed with the person concerned, subject to art. 169a, para. 3. The amendments and additions to the conditions under para. 2, p. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15 and 16 and the changes leading to a reduction in the fee or an increase in payments otherwise shall apply to the beneficiaries and beneficiaries without any further agreement with them. (5) The pension insurance company shall disclose the rules of the funds for making payments and their amendments and additions to its website on the day of their adoption. (6) The Pension Insurance Company shall submit to the Commission the decision on the Management Authority for the adoption of amendments and additions to the rules of the Funds for making payments and the amended rules within three working days of the decision being taken, respectively, from the approval of the decision by the Supervisory Board, where approval under the company's statutes is required. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." the draft rules of the Fund for the payment of life-saving pensions and of the Fund for deferred payments; b) Previous t. 3 " 11" becomes p. 4? 12. 2. In para. 4 words................................................................................. 1, t. 3, 7, 8 and 10s are replaced by......................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 42. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) The interests of the insured persons in a universal pension fund and the persons receiving payments from the funds under art. 192a and 192b are represented by the trustees' council. 2. A new para is being created. 2: (2) The interests of insured persons and pensioners in a professional pension fund shall be represented by a trustees' board. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 44. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 164 is amended as follows: "Freedom of liability for obligations" Art. 164. The insured persons, pensioners and their successors, as well as the supplementary compulsory pension funds and payment funds, are not responsible for the obligations of the pension insurance company. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u84	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 9 which becomes 31; the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 32 by text on the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 10, which becomes 33; the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 34 by text on the Commission Report and a new § 35 by text on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes 36; the text of the importer for § 12, which becomes 37; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 13, which becomes 38; the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes 39; the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 40 by the Commission Report; the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 41; the Commission proposal for the Commission report; the text for § 15 which becomes § 42; the proposal for the Commission's creation of a new § 43; the text of the Commission's proposal for the Commission's submission for the Commission's new § 44; and the text for the Commission's submission for the Commission's text is § 46. They voted 93 MPs: 76, against 1, abstention 16. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u85	Under § 18, there is a proposal from Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Siddy: Paragraph 18 acquires the following version: .............................................................................. Article 167 is amended as follows: Law of supplementary life pension Art. 167 (1) The insured person shall be entitled to an additional life pension when reaching age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 or under art. 68a, (2) The supplementary life pension shall be a monthly payment of the amount provided for in the pension contract due to the pensioner from a specified date to his death, the amount of which shall not be less than 15 per cent of the minimum amount of the pension for insurance service and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 at the date of its designation. (3) The pension insurance company shall pay an additional life pension against the transfer of the accumulated funds to the individual lot or the amount under art. 131, para. 2, which is greater, in the fund for the payment of lifelong pensions under art. 192a. (4) After submission of the application and the necessary documents for granting a pension for internship and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 or under art. 68a, para. 1 The territorial division of the NSI shall pronounce and inform the insured person of the following: 1. the existence of an acquired right of pension under the terms of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council 2. the amount of the pension calculated with a reduction of the individual coefficient of art. 70, para. 10, including where the pension is fixed or equal to the minimum amount; 3. the amount of the pension calculated without reduction of the individual coefficient under art. 70, para. 10. (5) The information under para. 4 shall be granted to the insured person after the retirement pension is determined under the rules of this Code and within the period laid down in art. 98, para. 1, t. 1 and 2. (6) The pension insurance company for additional compulsory pension insurance, in whose universal pension fund the person is insured, shall be obliged to provide him with information on the amount of the supplementary life pension under para. 2 within one month of its request, which the person should make in parallel with the submission of pension documents from the DEA. (7) Within one month of receipt of the information under para. 4 and para. 6 The insured person in the Fund "Pensions" respectively Fund "Pensions for the persons under art. 69s and a universal pension fund shall be entitled to transfer the funds from its individual account to a universal pension fund in the Fund of the Ministry of Finance, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69- if it is more beneficial to him. The persons shall transfer the funds by submitting a model application to the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency. (8) The supplementary life pension for old age may: 1. be with a guaranteed repayment period; 2. include a deferred payment of part of the funds until the age of pensioner. The period and amount of the deferred payment and the amount of the life pension shall be chosen by the insured person. (9) The order and the way to pronounce and inform the insured person under para. 4 and 5 shall be defined in the ordinance under art. 106. (10) The order and the way to provide the information under para. 6 shall be defined in the ordinance referred to in art. 123z2, para. 12. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s Article 167 is amended as follows: Law of supplementary life pension for old age Art. 167. (1) The insured person shall be entitled to an additional life pension for old age when he reaches his age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, (2) The insured person shall be entitled to an additional lifelong retirement pension for old age and up to one year before his age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, provided that the accumulated funds on its individual account allow the granting of a pension of no less than the minimum amount of the pension for insurance service and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1. (3) The supplementary life pension for old age shall be a monthly payment of the amount provided for in the pension contract due to the pensioner from a specified date to his death, the amount of which shall not be less than 15 per cent of the minimum amount of the pension for retirement and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 at the date of its designation. (4) The pension insurance company shall provide the following types of pensions: 1. life pension without additional conditions; 2. a lifelong pension with a period of guaranteed repayment; 3. a lifelong pension involving a deferred payment of part of the funds until the age of pensioner. (5) The period of guaranteed payment of the pension under para. 4 t. 2 may be from two to 10 years depending on the choice of the insured person. (6) The period and amount of the deferred payment and the amount of the life pension shall be determined according to the choice of the insured person, subject to para. Art. 3 and Art. 3. 167a, para. 4. (7) The pension insurance company shall pay an additional life pension for old age against transfer to the fund for the payment of life pensions of the accumulated funds under the individual lot or additions amount of funds in cases under art. 131, para. 2.... 5..............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u86	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Alexander Siddy. Vote 84 MPs: 5 against 3, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment proposed by the Commission for § 18, which shall become § 47. Vote 87 MPs: 73, against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u87	Under § 19 there is a proposal of Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 167a: The right of one-off or deferred payment of the funds in the case of an acquired entitlement to an additional life pension for old age Art. 167a. (1) Where the funds of the individual account of the insured person, including after addition according to the order of art. 131, para. 2 - 5 are insufficient for the granting of an additional lifelong retirement pension in the amount of art. 167, para. 3 but exceed the three-fold amount of minimum pension for insurance and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 at the date of determination of the value of the account funds, the insured person shall be entitled to receive them deferred. (2) Where the amount of funds per individual account is less than the three-fold amount of the minimum pension for insurance service and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, including after supplementing under para. 3, they shall be paid to the person once. (3) When at the date of determining the one-off or deferred payment under para. 1 funds per individual account shall be less than the amount of gross amount of contributions received for the person concerned, the individual account shall be supplemented by that amount according to art. 131, para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (4) The monthly amount of the deferred payment at the date of its determination shall not be greater than the minimum amount of the pension for insurance service and age under art. 68 para. 1 to the same date and less than 15 percent of its size. (5) The guaranteed amount of the deferred payment shall be equal to that calculated on the basis of the amount of gross amount of the transferred social contributions pursuant to art. 131, para. 2... 5........................................................................... At the time of the last payment, the sum of it and all previous payments shall not be less than the amount guaranteed by the first sentence. (6) The pension insurance company shall make the deferred payment against a transfer to the Fund for deferred payments of the accumulated funds of the individual account or of the additions amount of the funds in the cases referred to in art. 131, para. 2... 5........................................................................... (7) The deferred payments provided for, respectively the updated and recalculated deferred payments shall not be changed except in the event of an update and recalculation under art. Art. 169c. 169 C.E. (8) The persons referred to in art. 127, para. 6 and 7 shall be entitled to receive, on a one-off or deferred basis, the insurance contributions collected on their individual account relating to periods after the opening of the accounts and shall not be subject to para. Art. 3, 5 and 6 and art. 131, para. 2... 5........................................................................... (9) Payments under para. 2 and 8 shall be carried out by the individual account of the insured person and the amount of the deferred payment shall be determined by the rules of para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u88	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 19, which shall become § 48; the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 49. Vote 92 MPs: 75, none, abstention 17. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u89	Under § 21, there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs: In § 21, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the created new para. 2 after the word "Size" a comma shall be placed and added to the "Species" with the accumulated inflation reported by the NSI in the month preceding the month before the grant of the pension from the universal pension fund. 2. In the created al. The following amendments shall be made: (a) in the first sentence, the words.................................................................................................................. (b) sentence 2 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21. which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. Article 169 is amended as follows: "Determining the amount of pension Art. 169. (1) The amount of the supplementary life pension for old age shall be determined on the basis of: 1. the funds on the individual account of the insured person after supplementing it as necessary under art. 131, para. 2 ssssssssssssssssss; 2. the table of mortality and average life expectancy published by the National Statistical Institute; 3. technical interest rate approved by the Committee under the order of para. 9.. 12. (2) In the calculation of the supplementary life pension for old age: 1. gender reporting as an actuarial factor is not allowed; 2. in the first 6 months of the year the statistical information under para. 1, t. 2 published in the previous year, and in the second half the statistical information under para. 1, t. 2, published in the current year. (3) The guaranteed amount of the supplementary life pension for old age shall be equal to that calculated in accordance with para. 1, t. 2 and 3 and para. 2 based on the gross amount of the translated social contributions according to art. 131, para. 2... 5........................................................................... (4) When the amount of the funds under para. 1, t. 1 accumulated at the date of the determination of the pension is greater than the amount of gross amount of transferred social contributions pursuant to art. 131, para. 2 - 5 for the person concerned and if he so wishes, the pension insurance company is obliged to offer payment of an additional life-saving old-age pension of a guaranteed amount equal to the amount of the first pension calculated on the basis of the accumulated funds on the individual account. The pension shall be determined in accordance with para. 1 - 3 applying also a risk factor determined and approved in accordance with para. 5 "7" and is granted only if its guaranteed size is higher than that under para. 3. (5) The risk factor of para. 4 shall be determined by a decision of the Pension Insurance Management Authority and approved by the Committee on a reasoned proposal of the Pension Insurance Company containing detailed calculations. (6) The Commission shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission, decide within one month from the submission of the request for approval of the risk factor and, where the Vice-President of the Commission has requested the submission of additional documents and/or information within a period specified by him, or has given instructions to correct errors or non-compliances, within one month of their submission. Where the documents or information requested have not been submitted, the Commission shall rule within one month of the expiry of the period set for their submission. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision taken within 7 days. (7) The Commission shall refuse to approve proposals by the pension insurance company where: 1. the proposal submitted by the company or the results of the activities of the fund do not justify it; 2. no additional documents or information have been submitted, errors or discrepancies have not been corrected or new ones have been admitted. (8) The amount of the temporary occupational pension for early retirement shall be determined on the basis of: 1. the accumulated funds on the individual lot; 2. the period of receipt; 3. the technical interest rate approved by the Committee under the order of para. 9.. 12. (9) The technical interest rates under para. 1, t. 3 and para. 8, p. 3 shall be determined by the management body of the pension insurance company in accordance with the requirements of the regulation under para. 14, taking into account the yield of the fund's assets from which the relevant type of pensions are paid and the expected return on investment and/or market yield on qualifying debt securities issued or guaranteed by a government of a Member State. Technical interest rates may not be higher than the maximum amount provided for in the Regulation and less than zero. (10) The technical interest rates determined under para. 9 shall be approved by the Committee on a reasoned proposal of the pension insurance company containing detailed calculations. (11) The Commission shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission, decide within one month from the submission of the request for approval of a technical interest rate and, where the Vice-President of the Commission has requested the submission of additional documents and/or information within a period specified by him, or has given instructions for the removal of errors or non-compliance with the provisions of that Code, the implementing acts or other documents concerned within one month of their submission. Where the documents or information requested have not been submitted, the Commission shall rule within one month of the expiry of the period set for their submission. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision taken within 7 days. (12) The Commission shall refuse to approve proposals from the pension insurance company a technical interest rate where: 1. the requirements of this Code and its implementing acts are not complied with; 2. the proposal submitted by the company or the results of the activities of the fund do not justify it; 3. no additional documents or information have been submitted, errors or discrepancies have not been corrected or new ones have been admitted. (13) In the event of significant changes in the conditions under which the technical interest rate has been approved, the Commission may oblige the pension insurance company to make the necessary changes in the amount of the technical interest rate and submit it for approval. (14) The Commission shall determine by regulation: 1. the requirements for the technical interest rate and its maximum size; 2. the formulas for calculation by the order of para. 1 and 4 of pensions under art. 167, para. 4. (15) The initial fixed amount of the supplementary life pension for old age, the corresponding updated and recalculated amount of that pension shall not be changed except in the case of an update and recalculation under art. Art. 169c. 169 (o.k.a. (a.k.a.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u90	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In this bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code everything is extremely important because it affects all Bulgarians. It affects them in this way that when they start not to be able to earn their income through work, but rely on some insurance, it is a very important issue for them. When it comes to what these people will receive, who have provided themselves in the universal pension funds, all the more so that the state has made them necessarily provided in some of them, it becomes even more important. In the previous and in this paragraph of the Bill, this is exactly what the.. how should be ensured the receipt of the funds that the insured persons have imported. The Bill provides that the pension is to be determined on the basis of the funds of the individual account accumulated at the date of its determination, depending on the contributions made and the other contributions received on the individual account, the income from their investment and the fees collected and deductions. At the same time, texts are proposed to ensure the amount of one-off deferred payments on the individual account of the insured person in a universal pension fund on the basis of the higher of the two values, first of all, the accumulations on the individual account at the time of the conclusion of the pension contract and, second of all, the gross amount of social contributions if the funds in the first case are lower. The fact that it is at all thought to give any guarantees to insured persons so that they do not find themselves in a situation where the money they will receive as a supplement from the second pillar to their pension is less than those they have imported into the universal pension fund is good. To what extent, though, is it good?! I think it's half-assed, and it's a low degree of bail. Why is that? Because at a normal period of insurance of 30 years, even at the higher periods, the smallest is for those born in 1960 and 19 years later, it is normal to have increased inflation, to have long periods with high interest rates and so on. If one insured person initially imported amounts that were significant in terms of their salary, after ten or fifteen years it is no longer the case because inflation ate them, as they say. Why should the risk of inflation be borne entirely by the insured person, while pension funds achieve positive results from the investment activity in the accumulation phase? This may serve as a buffer to cover, respectively, the adverse investment results in the accumulation phase, and taking over the investment risk of companies will occur in the event of a default for the payment of the pension on the basis of the gross amount of the contributions envisaged. Furthermore, the provision is not sufficient because the private pension fund does not necessarily have to offer a pension with such a guarantee, but only at the request of the insured person, and it happens after the monthly payment is reduced by a risk factor by which this guarantee can be made meaningless at all. These motives and the desire to better protect the interests of pensioners, the insured persons motivate us to make a proposal to ensure payment of the pension as follows: where the amount of funds accumulated at the date of the determination of the pension is less than the amount of gross amount indexed by the accumulated inflation reported by the National Statistical Institute in the month preceding the month before the grant of the pension from the Universal Fund of the contributions transferred by the National Revenue Agency and the National Insurance Institute to the insured person concerned, the funds of the individual account shall be supplemented to that amount by part of the reserve under art. 193a and pension shall be determined on the basis of the means after their completion. This is for all insured persons without express desire from them, and without reduction with risk factors. I think this is a fair guarantee for the people who the state has necessarily made to give their money and their social security contributions to private pension funds for a period imperative, and then with a slightly lighter regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u92	Thank you. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, what the colleagues from the Bulgarian National Statistical Institute offer is related to the indexing of funds with the Consumer Price Index, with inflation at the National Statistical Institute, which are on the individual lot. At first glance, it looks great, doesn't it? On the one hand, the gross amount of social contributions that the insured person has paid shall be guaranteed. On the other hand, regardless of the outcome of the investment, because these are capital pillars. They rely on profitability from investments, they rely on the relevant investment portfolio to increase this yield, but there are times when this yield can be positive, it can also be negative. It is therefore reported on a two-year basis, not on a daily basis, monthly or any other basis. Once again, it sounds wonderful, it sounds perfect, the gross amount of the contributions plus the interest that is about the month of acquisition of the pension, in order for this thing to happen, however, must have a guarantee fund, some kind of fund to guarantee this thing. Because that money has nowhere to come from, except from a special fund to guarantee inflation. In Bulgaria, there is no such financial instrument that is linked to inflation. Therefore, what colleagues propose can only happen if there is a fund to ensure the payment of this additional interest that they are talking about. In order for this to happen, however, the investment portfolio needs to be changed. It must be aggressive enough to be able to have greater profitability. In this case, the investment portfolio, which is listed in the proposed bill, is conservative enough because it has a fund to guarantee the gross amount of insurance contributions. This fund has a fund to guarantee the payment of life or deferred pensions. In these pensions there can be no aggressive investment behaviour, because they pay pensions every month. They must have the appropriate amount to be able to fulfil their obligations, and when they invest in aggressive long-term pension financial instruments, they cannot have the resources to pay their obligations under the concluded pension contracts. Therefore, the proposal of BSP colleagues sounds wonderful, sounds wonderful, but in the way it is written, independently, without changes in other texts of the Social Security Code, it cannot be realized.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u94	Thank you. Any other lines? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Ademov, what the parliamentary group of BSP offers for Bulgaria is fair, perhaps not the only one, but it is fair and you know it very well, because in this way we want to have some guarantee for these people I will not stop, I will continue to speak it from the stands, and everywhere. The state necessarily made these people give their money to private pension companies, if you will, but they are companies that look at their own interest and we as legislators must somehow ensure that their money that has entered these private pension companies will not in any way be destroyed, disappeared or decreased and so on. By the way, in the Social Security Code there are a number of such guarantees made in the investment portfolio, protections for people's money, including that they are not entitled to invest in high-risk securities and so on, there are sufficient guarantees, but the guarantee for what people need to receive from these private pension funds should be iron and recorded in the Law, not because of the goodwill of this private pension fund. And when we want to make some kind of guarantee, we have to get to the end. I very much hope it will be in extremely few cases. People reach this guaranteed amount of contribution and get their own money with what is accumulated through the deposits of their money. But when it comes to the fact that the company has not done it and that this person is deprived of his money, just because the state has made him put that money into the private pension company and he has to play a lottery in which company to put them in, because the pension companies don't even bother to advertise anymore, if you understand what they're offering in the media and so on, because with them everything is secured, they make an advertisement to offer good conditions, not to offer them, the state distributes some money from some people who don't even have a haber where their money goes. From this point of view, there must also be this guarantee, again I say, must be ironic. If we're talking about guarantees, we have to make them right. I am aware that our proposal has attracted many changes to the proposal to amend the Social Security Code. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Just two sentences. I'm aware of that. We would have taken the trouble from the parliamentary group to make these changes as long as there was someone to hear us from across the street, but since I'm sure no one can hear and will vote against the proposal, so we have nothing to do with developing it in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. Vote 94 MPs: 20, against 59, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 21, which shall become § 50. They voted 93 MPs: 69, none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. We interrupt work for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u97	Colleagues, please take your seats. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today, we celebrate 148 years of the destruction of the greatest Bulgarian and national saints. On this day our public again, perhaps the most unanimous in its assessments of a worthy Bulgarian, will mark the invaluable place of the Apostle in the development of the Bulgarian national liberation movement, will point out his civic, personal and moral example of today's and tomorrow's Bulgarians. In the native Karlovo grew and formed that unheard character, which amazes and inspires every Bulgarian heart. For his brief earthly journey he turned time. Today, however, in complex global, European and Balkan events, it will be useful if we turn to its perceptions of the ultimate goal and the meaning of the fight for Liberation. With his Democratic Republic and his ideas for free, independent and fair Bulgaria The Apostle laid the foundations of the third Bulgarian state. The national states in Europe arose on the basis of the word and ruler states in XVIII and especially in the 19th century, the century that some call the Age of Nations and Nationalities, the century in which remarkable struggles for liberation and national unity were fought. During this time, ideals for a single national state are being created. On this pan-European trend the Bulgarian public thought during the Renaissance created its ideals for the state model, which should be realized with liberation. For Vasil Levski they have written artists from all generations, they write today, they will always write publicists, public figures and politicians. Viewing his name, ideas and work not only as a place in the past, but also in the present, stated: Levski is a contemporary of all generations. There is no other person in our story that has been spoken of so much and at the same time so little to know about. His words were simple and short. The people's poet Ivan Vazov characterized the Apostle's words. These words draw thousands of people into the rush to free Bulgaria, which has become historical and national wisdom. The folk genius compares Levski to sky, sun, wind, sea, river. These are the notions of Levski, who left a mark on the generations of old and today, and because of which foreigners are asking: is Levski a mythological figure and can a real person control the minds of an entire nation for 148 years? Levski was born and lived in a world where good and bad, fear and hopes, successes and failures, the old and modern lived together. A world where the desire for change was very strong, but at the same time no one suggested how to do it quickly and successfully. And it is here that we must rediscover the magic of the Apostolic charm, appreciate its ability to understand equally the rich and the poor, and the merchant and the peasant, and the teachings and the illiterate, which allowed him to find the most effective means of making the slave a fighter for people's righteousness. The apostle's incorruptible charisma should also be sought by his extraordinary personality. With all his revolutionary work he was and continues to be an example of what qualities the great political leader should have. Levski could not boast of university education, but his difficult life course had taught him that in order to lead an entire people to slaughter on the path of his own Golgotha it is necessary not only to have a vision of what should and how should be done, but with your personal example to show that what you call for is truly achievable that sacrifice is not only words, but also deeds that lead means and be responsible. The protection of the nationality of Levski sees not only in self-closing, in an effort to preserve self-habitity, but also in the inclusion of the achievements and values of the more advanced European nations and countries. To be equal with the other European peoples depends on our own collective forces.The Apostle concludes. The time in which Levski lived and fought in the 19th century, the age of freedom, was not deprived of the pursuit of European united states, of federations and confederations with neighbouring and more distant peoples. Moreover, this was the most fashionable and seemingly most advanced human idea. The prominent Bulgarian historian Professor Doyno Doynov says that the years and decades from Levski's time to this day show his sober and realistic assessment of the aspirations for building a national state, which can only and paradigmly afford to join a brotherly union with neighbouring and more distant countries. In this sense, the Apostle sees the place of the future Bulgarian state as an equal member of the dream young Europe. His insights have not only endured the trials of nearly two centuries, they are our national experience and tradition. Undoubtedly, democracy, republicanism, sovereignty and more principles are the highest sustainable ideas of Vasil Levski, who will live and inspire tomorrow's young Bulgaria. However, we want to believe that two of them will remain not only a great conquest personally of the Apostle but also of the political maturity of the Bulgarian nation. We hope to recall more often his last words before the gallows: I have done everything I have done for the Fatherland. We believe that no matter what difficulties and obstacles our future will make, we can overcome them united around the covenants of the Apostle of Bulgarian freedom. Because Levski belongs not only to history, Levski was and will be a contemporary of tomorrow's Bulgaria. For 148 years the Bulgarian carries his holy name and work in his heart. And the most real, indestructible monument is the oblivion of his feat. May his memory live forever! Bow down, Apostolic! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Zidarova. Bow down to the memory of the Apostle of Liberty. Vasil Levski! Mr. Ademov, are you ready to read 20 pages?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u100	Not only am I ready to read them, but I'm ready to comment on them if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u101	I'm impressed with your energy. [[Radio.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u102	Under § 22, an offer is made by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) New t. is created. 3 and 4: "3." the amount of the amount against which the pension insurance company undertakes to pay an additional life pension for old age, respectively the amount of the individual account's funds for the payment of an early retirement term pension; 4. the covered risks; b) the current t. 3 becomes t. 5 and is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. the type and initial amount of the pension, its guaranteed amount and how to update and reclaim it; (c) the so-called t. 4 and 5 are respectively t. 6 and 7; (d) the so-called t. 6 is going to be t. 8 and finally a comma is placed in it and added to it depending on the type of pension paid; (e) Previously on 7, 8 and 9 are respectively t. 9, 10 and 11. 2. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: . (3) The parties to the pension contract shall not make any changes to it regarding the type of pension, the way it is calculated, the risks covered, the amount guaranteed and the duration of its receipt. (4) The contract for the payment of a temporary occupational pension for early retirement shall be terminated with the expiry of the period provided for therein, and the contract for life pension with the death of the pensioner. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169b, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 is finally a comma and is added to the settlement fund. 2. A new t. is created. 4. "4." the guaranteed amount of the payment under art. 167a, para. 1);supposed to be in the form of a combination of two or more of the following forms: 3. Previously on "T." 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 become t. 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. Under § 23, there is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 23 be rejected. Under § 24, an offer is made by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 24 be rejected. According to § 25 an importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 169c: "Actualisation of the supplementary life pension for old age and the deferred payment Art. 169c. (1) The supplementary life pension for old age and the deferred payment shall be updated at least once a year, with the guaranteed amount under art. 169, para. Art. 3 or 4 respectively 167a, para. Five doesn't change. (2) The supplementary life pension for old age shall be updated according to the technical interest rate on the basis of which it is calculated its amount and the realised income from the investment of the funds of the fund for the payment of life pensions under art. 192a during the period to which the update relates, on an annual basis. (3) The deferred payment shall be updated according to the realised income from the investment of the funds of the Fund for deferred payments under art. 192b during the period to which the update relates, on an annual basis. (4) The update of the additional lifelong retirement pension shall be carried out by no less than 50 percent of the excess of the realised income from the investment of the funds of the fund for the payment of lifelong pensions under art. 192a during the period covered by the technical interest rate on which its amount was calculated. The amount of the supplementary life pension for old age may be reduced only after spending of the funds from the analytical account under art. 192a, para. 11 and may not be lower than the guaranteed amount under art. 169a, para. 2, p. 5. (5) The update of the deferred payment shall be made by no less than 50 percent of the realised income from the investment of the funds of the Fund for deferred payments under art. 192b during the period to which it refers. The amount of the deferred payment may be reduced only after the expenditure of the analytical account under art. 192b, para. 3, p. 2 and may not be lower than the guaranteed amount under art. 167a, para. 5. Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 169d: "Recalculation of the supplementary life pension for old age and deferred payment Art. 169 C.E. (1) The persons referred to in art. 127, para. 6 and 7 may request, not more than once in one calendar year, a recalculation of the pension or deferred payment received on the basis of the accumulated amounts of the contributions received after the conclusion of the pension contract, respectively, of the deferred payment contract or part thereof. (2) The recalculation under para. 1 shall be made from the first number of the month following the month in which the request was lodged. The funds from the account on the basis of which the recalculation is carried out shall be transferred to the fund for the payment of life pensions under art. 192a, respectively, in the Fund for deferred payments under Art. 192a. 192b. Under § 27, there is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... Article 170 is amended as follows: "The Rights of the Successors" Art. 170. (1) In the event of the death of an insured person in an additional compulsory pension fund, the funds of his individual account shall be paid once or deferred to his heirs by law in the event of the application of art. Art. 3, Art. 4, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 5x10a of the Legacy Act. The funds due to the downtrends of the insured, which have died after it, shall be paid equally to their downtrends, and those closest to it shall exclude the more distant ones. (2) In the event of the death of a pensioner with pension under art. 167, para. 4 t. 2 before the period of guaranteed payment of the heirs under para. 1 shall be paid once the current value of the payments due to it by the end of the guaranteed repayment period. (3) In the event of the death of a pensioner with pension under art. 167, para. 4 t. 3 during the deferred payment of the heirs under para. 1 shall be paid a lump sum amounting to the present value of the deferred payments due after its death in accordance with the intended deferred payment plan in the contract with the deceased. (4) In the event of death of a person receiving a deferred payment under art. 167a, para. 1 of the heirs under para. 1 shall be paid once the remainder of the payments due to the deceased. (5) In the event of the death of a pensioner with a temporary occupational pension for the early retirement of the heirs under para. 1 shall be paid once or deferred the remainder of the funds per individual account. (6) After the death of a person receiving payment under para. The amount not received shall be updated in order to update the payment to the deceased until the due payment has been made to the beneficiary concerned. (7) Refusal of the inheritance of the deceased shall not deprive the heirs under para. 1 of their rights under para. 1... 5............................................................................ (8) The receipt of funds under para. 5 is not considered to be an acceptance of an inheritance. (9) When there are no heirs under para. 1: 1. the funds on the individual account of a deceased insured person in a universal pension fund shall be entered into the fund for the payment of life pensions, and where such a fund is not created in the reserve to ensure the payment of life pensions; 2. the funds due under para. 2 and 3 remain in the lifelong pension fund; 3. the funds due under para. 4 shall be transferred to the fund for the payment of lifelong pensions, and where such a fund is not established in the reserve to ensure the payment of lifelong pensions; 4. the funds on the individual accounts of the deceased insured persons and pensioners in a professional pension fund shall be transferred to the state budget. Under § 28 there is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4 and 5. . (4) A insured person who has acquired the right to a pension from a universal pension fund shall be entitled to change its participation once and to transfer the accumulated funds to the individual account or the amount under art. 131, para. 2 which is greater, in another relevant fund managed by another pension insurance company. (5) In the cases referred to in art. 127, para. 6 and 7 there is no right to change participation under para. 1, 3 and 4. 2. So far, the Al. 5 becomes respectively. 6................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 57. There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174, para. 1 the words "The insured person and the persons referred to in Article. 170, para. 1s is replaced by the insured persons, pensioners and their beneficiaries. There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 59: ............... 59................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the funds for additional compulsory insurance are added the funds for making payments. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words for additional compulsory insurance and reinsurance are replaced by the words under para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." implement the investment policy of each managed supplementary pension fund and the rules of each payment fund with a view to achieving its investment objectives, and comply with the investment limits laid down in the policy, respectively in the rules, in this Code and in its implementing acts; There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 60: ........................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 176 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: 2 The Pension Insurance Company shall invest the funds of the Fund for the payment of life pensions and of the Fund for deferred payments only in: 1. Financial instruments under para. 1, t. 1.. 4, 6, 10 and 11; 2. Deposits under para. 1, t. 5. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words. 178 "A" is added. There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the title, the end is added to the payment fund. 2. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words the additional mandatory insurance fund shall be added to the payment fund. (b) c. 2 the words "the fund's guarantee bank" shall be replaced by "the bank's supplementary pension fund' or "payment fund' managed by the same pension insurance company'. 3. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words (b) c. 3 at the end of the day, a payment fund shall be added or a payment fund shall be added; (c) c. 4 the words "the fund's guarantee bank" shall be replaced by "the bank's supplementary pension fund' or "payment fund' managed by the same pension insurance company'. 4. In para. 3 after the words 5. In para. 5 and para. 6 after the words There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words..funds for additional compulsory insurance is added....and funds for making payments.. 2. In para. 2 the words for supplementary insurance and reinsurance are replaced by the words under para. 1.................................................................................. 3. In para. 3 and 4 words for additional compulsory insurance are replaced by........................................................................................................ 1.................................................................................. 4. In para. 5 the words for supplementary insurance are replaced by the words under para. 1.................................................................................. 5. In para. 6, 7 and 8 words for additional compulsory insurance are replaced by....................................................................................................... 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 63: .............................................................................. The title of art. 178 is amended as follows: There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 178a: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Art. 178a. (1) Not more than 5 per cent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in financial instruments issued by one issuer and in this limit: 1. do not include debt securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 letters...................................................................................................................... 2. do not include debt securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 point (c) with an investment credit rating; 3. where the issuer is a bank, the deposits of the fund in that bank shall also be included and the net exposure value of the forward currency contracts and the interest rate cyap contracts to the same bank; 4. where the issuer is a financial institution, the value of the net exposure to forward currency contracts and its interest rate swap contracts shall also be included. (2) The total value of the investments of a fund for making payments in financial instruments issued by companies of one group and the persons with whom those companies are in close links shall not exceed 10 percent of the fund's assets. This restriction shall also include: 1. the deposits of the fund in banks of the group and in banks which are in close links with group companies and the value of the net exposure to them under forward currency contracts and interest rate cyap contracts; 2. the value of the net exposure to forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate cyap contracts with financial institutions of the group and financial institutions located in close links with companies of the group. (3) Not more than 10 percent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 letter................................................................................. (4) Not more than 10 percent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 (e) (5) Not more than 15 percent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 2, with no more than 5 percent of the assets may be in bonds issued by a local authority that are not traded on a regulated market. (6) Not more than 20 percent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 3. (7) Not more than 15 percent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 4. (8) Not more than 20 percent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 6 and 11. (9) Not more than 5 percent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 10, as not more than 1 percent of the fund's assets may be invested in special investment purpose companies, securitisation receivables. (10) Not more than 5 percent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in deposits in one bank. (11) Not more than 5 percent of the assets of a payment fund may be invested in units of collective investment schemes managed by the same management company. (12) Not more than 20 per cent of the assets of a payment fund may be denominated in a currency other than lev and euro, except for assets for which there is a limitation of the currency risk through concluded hedging transactions under art. 179b. (13) Specific requirements and restrictions on investments of a payment fund shall be laid down in the rules of art. 144a.................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u103	Let's stop here. I open the debates from § 51 to § 64 with a new numbering. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 22 with a new numbering by the version of the Commission § 51 and the new § 52. Vote 82 MPs: 66, none, abstention 16. Paragraphs 51 and 52 with a new numbering have been adopted. I now vote to reject paragraphs 23 and 24. Vote 80 MPs: 66, none, abstention 14. Paragraph 23 and § 24 are rejected. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 25 to 28 which shall undergo a Commission version and a new numbering from 53 to 56 inclusive; § 29 which shall become § 57 by importer, as well as the texts of the new paragraphs 58 to 64 inclusive. [[Noise.]] Mr. Kanev, this is the second time I've made a remark to you in today's session. Don't force me to take extreme measures. Please leave the room so I don't have to suspend you. Abort the vote. Vote 84 MPs: 70, none, abstention 14. Paragraphs 53 to 64 with a new numbering have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u104	Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179 after the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179b, para. 1 after the words Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 67: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179c are made the following additions: 1. In para. 1 after the words the additional mandatory insurance fund shall be added to the payment fund. 2. In para. 3 shall be added at the end to the rules of the Fund for the making of payments. 3. In para. 4 after the words the additional mandatory insurance fund is added to the payment fund. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 sentence first, first, a payment fund is added. 2. In para. 2, p. 2 is finally added to the payment fund. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words.............................................................................. 176 and 179b and the investment policy of the supplementary compulsory insurance fund managed by the bank shall be replaced by the following: 176 and 179b, the investment policy of the supplementary compulsory pension fund managed by it and the rules of the Fund for the payment of payments. 2. In para. 2 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: the Pension Insurance Company is obliged to monitor on a daily basis the compliance with the restrictions of art. 177a, 178a, 178a, art. 179a, para. 1 and the envisaged restrictions in the investment policy of the supplementary compulsory pension fund, respectively in the rules of the payment fund, and to bring the fund's assets into line with them within 6 months from the date of excess of the relevant limit, where it is due to: "3." In para. 3 the words for additional compulsory insurance is replaced by the words under para. 1.................................................................................. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) Where in the case of the conversion of a fund under para. 1 the restrictions under art. 1 shall be violated. 177a, 178, 178a and/or 179a of the newly formed or receiving fund, its assets shall be aligned with those limits within 6 months of the date of entry of the infusion or merger in the register of the county court at the seat of the fund for additional compulsory pension provision. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... In 180b, the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: . (2) Subject to the principles of art. 175 pension insurance company which has set up a payment fund may not apply the restrictions under art. 177a and 178a within 12 months of its establishment. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words..funds for additional compulsory insurance is added....and funds for making payments.. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 2 and 3 words for additional compulsory insurance are replaced by........................................................................................................ the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (b) c. 4 the word "funda" is replaced by "funds" under para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (c) c. 5 the word "the fund" is replaced by "the fund" for additional compulsory insurance; (d) c. 6 is finally added to the supplementary pension fund and to the analytical accounts of the payment fund. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 72: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows:?Requirements to the accounting of the pension insurance company, the funds for additional compulsory pension insurance and the payment funds. 2. In para. 1 after the words..funds for additional compulsory insurance is added....and funds for making payments.. 3. In para. 2 at the end of the day, a payment fund is added. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 73: .............................................................................. Article 186 is amended as follows: "Accounting of an additional compulsory pension fund and payment fund Art. 186. The pension insurance company shall keep separate accounts of each fund it manages for additional compulsory pension insurance and payment fund and shall draw up separate accounts for the Fund concerned. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 186a after the words...funds for additional compulsory insurance is added.. and funds for making payments............................................................................................................. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 75: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "retirement funds' the amounts for payment shall be added; 2. In para. 3. t. 1 and 2 after the words 3. In para. 4 after the words the funds for additional compulsory insurance are added to the funds for making payments. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 188, para. 1 and 2 all over the world after the words Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 190 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the funds for additional compulsory insurance are added to the funds for making payments. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 after the words (b) c. 2 after the words the funds for additional compulsory insurance are added......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 78. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 79: ....... 79........................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 191 the words "insured in the fund' shall be replaced by "insured persons, pensioners and their beneficiaries'. Under § 31 under importer, there is a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 80: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 192 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: . (2) To cover the shortfall in the fund for the payment of life pensions under art. 192a The pension insurance company established a reserve to ensure the payment of life pensions. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: (3) The reserve under para. 2 is formed by: 1. the excess in the fund for the payment of life pensions under art. 192a, para. 15, p. 1; 2. own funds of the pension insurance company; 3. transferred funds under the order of art. 170, para. 9, p. 1 and 3............................................................................................................ 3. A new para is being created. 4. (4) The funds of the reserve under para. 2 can only be used to cover a shortage in the fund to pay lifelong pensions under art. 192a........................................................................................................... 4. The creation of para. 5. . (5) The funds of the reserve under para. 2 shall be invested in accordance with art. P.O. Box 76.A. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 177, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 178a. The assessment of its assets and liabilities shall be carried out at the end of each calendar month according to art. 181........................................................................................... 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 and finally added by para. 1 and 2 and the coverage of a shortage of payment funds where available. 5. The creation of para. 7. The requirements for the formation, calculation and maintenance of the reserve to ensure the payment of life-saving pensions, supplementing it and releasing funds from it shall be determined by a Commission regulation. Under § 32, an offer is made by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 81: ........ 81...................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 192a: "Fund for the payment of life-saving pensions" Art. 192a. (1) The Fund for the payment of life pensions shall be established by a decision of the management body of the pension insurance company in determining the first additional life pension for old age. (2) The pension insurance company shall present to the Commission within three working days of the decision under para. 1 request for entry of the fund in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 13 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act to which they apply: 1. the minutes of the decision of the management body to set up the fund; 2. the rules of art. 144a. (3) The Commission shall decide on the request by decision within 7 days of its receipt on the basis of a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission. (4) The Commission shall refuse entry only where the decision establishing the fund has not been adopted by the competent authority of the company or no quorum or majority requirements have been met. (5) The Fund shall be deemed to be set up by the issuing of the decision of the Commission for its entry in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 13 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. (6) The Registry Agency shall enter the Fund in the BULSTAT Registry after the decision under para is presented to it. 5. The pension insurance company shall notify the Commission of the entry within three working days of its completion. (7) The Fund shall be formed by: 1. the transferred funds from the individual accounts of the persons on whom an additional life pension for old age has been assigned; 2. the transferred funds under the order of para. Art. 16 and art. 170, para. 9, p. 1 3. the income from investing the funds of the fund. (8) From the Fund under para. 1: 1. pay the life pensions and the funds due to the heirs of the deceased pensioners and pay them in the country according to para. 9; 2. costs are incurred for the acquisition and sale of its assets; 3. the fee referred to in Article 3 shall be paid. 201, para. 1, t. 3; 4. funds shall be transferred under the order of para. 15, p. 1 and para. 17; 5. no payments other than those provided for in point (a) may be made. 1........................................................... (9) The costs for the payment of life-saving pensions shall be those incurred, but not more than one lev per transaction. In the event that the expenditure actually incurred for the payment of life pensions exceeds that amount, the pension insurance company shall reimburse the fund for excess costs. (10) The Fund is held in BGN. The assessment of the assets and liabilities of the fund shall be carried out at the end of each calendar month in accordance with the requirements of art. 181. (11) A separate analytical account shall be kept in the fund for the part of the income with which no update of the life pensions has been made under art. 169c, para. 4. (12) The Responsible Actuary of the Pension Insurance Company: 1. calculates the obligations to pensioners and heirs of the deceased pensioners and the amount required to cover them by 31 December each year; 2. verifies the calculations of t. 1 in the annual actuarial report of the Fund. (13) In the calculation according to the order of para. 12, t. 1: 1. reliable and fair actuarial calculations and assumptions shall be used which take into account all the obligations arising from the concluded pension contracts so that the amount of the fund's funds is sufficient to pay all the lifelong pensions allocated and payments due to heirs; 2. assumptions taken to assess liabilities shall be reasonably chosen, taking into account, where appropriate, an appropriate limit on adverse deviations; 3. the table referred to in Article 3 shall apply. 169, para. 1, t. 2 and the approved technical interest rate in accordance with art. 169, para. 9 s 12; 4. the method and actuarial assumptions shall not change, except in the case of changes in the legal, demographic or economic circumstances on which the assumptions are based. (14) The pension insurance company is obliged at any time to maintain a sufficient amount of funds in the fund corresponding to its overall activity to ensure coverage of the insurance risks assumed. (15) In case in the calculation under para. 12, t. 1 the amount of funds in the fund is: 1. Greater than 105 percent of the amount of liabilities to pensioners and their heirs, the excess over 105 percent may be transferred to the reserve under art. 192, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. between 100 and 105 percent of the amount of liabilities to pensioners and their heirs, the excess over 100 percent remains in the fund. (16) In case in the case of the calculation under para. 12, t. 1 The amount of the funds of the fund is lower than the amount of the liabilities to the pensioners and their heirs, the company complements the difference with the funds from the reserve under art. 192, para. 2 and if there is a shortage of funds in it,.. with own funds. (17) Where, in the previous 5 years, funds from the reserve under art. 192, para. 2 are used to cover a shortage in the fund, these funds shall be reimbursed in the reserve under art. 192, para. 2 to the amount of the excess under para. 15, p. 2. (18) The requirements for the formation and maintenance of the fund, the calculation of the required amount of the funds therein and the excess under para. 15, the addition of the fund and the release of funds from it shall be determined by a commission regulation. Under § 33, there is a proposal from Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33 by importer, which shall become § 82: ............................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 192b: schedule payment fund Art. 192b. (1) The Fund for deferred payments shall be established by a decision of the management body of the pension insurance company in determining the first deferred payment under art. 167a, para. 1. (2) The Fund shall be formed by: 1. the transferred funds from the individual accounts of the persons to whom a deferred payment under art. 167a, para. 1; 2. the transferred funds under the order of para. 7); 3. the income from investing the funds of the fund. (3) In the fund shall be held: 1. analytical accounts of the persons whose funds are transferred to which records of the funds transferred and the amounts paid to each person are made; 2. a separate analytical account for the part of the income with which no update of the deferred payments has been made. (4) From the fund under para. 1: 1. the deferred payments under Art. 1. shall be paid. 167a, para. 1 and the amounts due to the heirs of the deceased who received such payments and expenditure shall be incurred for their payment in the country; 2. costs are incurred for the acquisition and sale of its assets; 3. the fee referred to in Article 3 shall be paid. 201, para. 1, t. 3; 4. funds shall be transferred under the order of para. 6, p. 1 and para. Art. 8 and art. 170, para. 9, p. 3; 5. no payments other than those provided for in point (a) may be made. 1........................................................... (5) In the establishment, management and calculation of the necessary amount of funds in the fund shall apply respectively the provisions of art. 192a, para. 2... 6, 9, 10, 12, 14 and 18. (6) In case in the case of the calculation under art. 192a, para. 12, t. 1 the amount of the fund is: 1. more than 105 percent of the amount of liabilities to the persons receiving deferred payments and their heirs, the excess exceeding 105 percent may be transferred to the reserve under art. 193a, para. 1; 2. between 100 and 105 percent of the amount of liabilities to persons receiving deferred payments and their heirs, the excess exceeding 100 percent remains in the fund. (7) In case in the case of the calculation under art. 192a, para. 12, t. 1 The amount of the fund is lower than the amount of the liabilities to the persons receiving deferred payments and their heirs, the company shall complement the difference with the reserve under art. 193a, para. 1 and in the event of a shortage of funds in it by own resources. (8) Where in the previous 5 years funds from the reserve under art. 193a, para. 1 are used to cover a shortage in the fund under para. 1, these funds shall be reimbursed to the reserve up to the amount of the excess under para. 5, t. 2. Under § 34 there is a proposal of Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 34 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 83: ........ 83...................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 193 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence of the sentence of the second sentence of the words. "1 per cent and greater than 3 per cent' shall be replaced by "0.5 per cent' and more than 1,5 per cent. 2. In para. 11 words.............................................................................. 175 "180a and 180c" shall be replaced by "chl." Art. 175, Art. Art. 175a, Art. P.O. Box 76.A. Art. 1, 3 and 4 Articles 177 and 178 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Articles 108 and 108 of the Treaty on Under § 36, there is a proposal of Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, which was withdrawn during the discussion. Proposal of Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, made according to the order of art. 83. para. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 84: ss s s s s s s s Article 16 is inserted in Chapter 16. 193a: "Reserves to guarantee the amount of gross amount of contributions transferred to a universal pension fund Art. 193a. (1) The pension insurance company shall establish a reserve for guaranteeing the gross amount of contributions to a universal pension fund under the conditions of art. 131, para. 2. (2) The reserve under para. 1 is formed by: 1. own funds of the pension insurance company; 2. the transferred funds under the order of para. 4 t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. the funds translated under art. 192b, para. 6, p. 1 and para. 8. (3) The reserve under para. 1 shall be at the rate of 0,5 percent of the net assets of the universal pension fund and shall be revalued at the end of each month. In the event of a shortage in the reserve, the company shall supplement it with its own funds. (4) When transferring funds under art. 171, para. 1 and 3 of the insured person in a universal pension fund the pension insurance company managing the fund from which the funds are transferred: 1. provide to the company managing the fund to which the funds are transferred, information on the amount of the funds transferred, the amount of the gross amount of the contributions received, the funds transferred under art. 172 and the part of the contributions corresponding to the funds paid under art. 139 para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. Translate into the reserve by para. 1 of the company p.o.b. 1 part of its reserve to ensure the gross amount of contributions to a universal pension fund equal to 0,5 percent of the transfers to the individual account of the insured where they are less than the amount of the gross amount of the contributions received under art. 131, para. 2... 5........................................................................... (5) When a change of participation under art. 171, para. 4 the accrued funds on the individual account of an insured person in a universal pension fund shall be less than the amount of the gross amount of the contributions received, the individual account shall be supplemented to that amount under art. 131, para. 2 - 5 with funds from the reserve to guarantee the gross amount of contributions to a universal pension fund and the funds to the account after its addition shall be transferred to the fund in which the person wishes to be provided. The pension insurance company managing the fund from which the funds are transferred shall provide to the company managing the fund where they enter, the information under para. 4 t. 1 at the date of transfer. (6) The funds of the reserve under para. 1 may only be used for: 1. supplementing the individual accounts of the insured persons when transferring funds under para. 5 and when granting pensions under art. 167 and one-off and deferred payments under art. 167a, para. 1 and 2. 2. transfer of the relevant parts of the reserve under the order of para. 4 t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. coverage of a shortage in the Fund for deferred payments under art. 192b, para. 7. (7) The funds of the reserve under para. 1 shall be invested in compliance with the provisions of art. Art. 175, Art. Art. 175a, Art. P.O. Box 76.A. Art. 1, 3 and 4 Articles 177 and 178 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Articles 108 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 179 " 180a and Art. 180c. (8) The calculations for the creation of a reserve under para. 1 shall be recognised for the cost of the pension insurance company and shall not be subject to tax under the Corporate Income Tax Act. (9) The requirements for the formation, calculation and maintenance of the reserve under para. 1, its addition to the required amount and the release of funds from it shall be determined by the Commission's regulation. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 85: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 16 is inserted in Chapter 16. 193b: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation Art. 193b. The transfer of funds between individual accounts, payment funds and reserves provided for in this Code shall be made in cash. According to § 37 there is a proposal of Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs: In § 37, p. 1 created t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." a fee of up to 10 per cent of the income generated by the investment of the funds in the payment funds. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u105	I open the debates under paragraphs 65. 85 with a new numbering. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I vote: the new paragraphs 65. 77; the wording of § 30, which receives the numbering § 78 by importer; a new § 79; and paragraphs 31, 32 and 33 by the Commission, which receive the numbering paragraphs 80, 81 and 82. Vote 80 MPs: 67, none, abstention 13. Paragraphs 65 and 82 have been adopted. I put to the vote the rejection of § 34. They voted 83 MPs: 72, none, abstention 11. Paragraph 34 is rejected. I put the following texts to the vote: the text of § 35, which receives a numbering § 83 in the version of the Commission; the text of § 36, which receives a numbering § 84 in the version of the Commission; and a new § 85. Vote 78 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 9. Paragraphs 83, 84 and 85 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u106	According to § 37 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs: In § 37, p. 1 created t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." a fee of up to 10 per cent of the income generated by the investment of the funds in the payment funds. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u107	Statements? Mrs. Jeleva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 201 An importer proposal is made and this is precisely the creation of a fee for the payment of the pension supplements, which will once again form an extremely vicious one. Why do we say that? Because with the introduction of this fee in art. 21, para. 1, t. 3 is intended to be calculated and to be in the amount of... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u109	Please remain silent in this room and respect for the man of the department.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u110	...0,5% of all assets in the insured person's account. I would like to point out here that there is no such fee in the NSI for the payment of pension allowances. Payment is a matter of ensuring good communication between employees, and by the same logic after one or two years you can also create a fee for paying this supplement from an ATM. We therefore propose a more balanced proposal, and this fee is to be calculated as a percentage of the income of the investments that have been made. Many times we have commented at first reading that administrative fees are one of the main problems that we mentioned because these fees are formed by our funds, by our money in these accounts. These charges make the costs, the high wages and everything related to the high costs used by private pension companies. It is precisely the high fees collected from private pension funds that are the main problems that we have mentioned. At the same time, notice on our proposal private pension funds say it will damage insured persons. This is not the case, but on the contrary, and we see this in the opinion of the Financial Supervision Commission, which is a major regulator and which is the main supervision of private pension companies. What does their opinion say? It is: The indicated fee does not correspond to the one enshrined in the concept of the philosophy of this bill and the fee of up to 10% of the annual income realised from the management of the funds in the Fund for the payment of life pensions, given the method of calculating this fee, this fee will be calculated and collected in cases where there is not even a yield achieved. This proposal is by no means to the detriment of insured persons and pensioners who will receive a second pension. We propose that in our proposal this fee be.. I read the proposal: The fee amounts to up to 10% of the income generated by the investment of funds in the funds to make the payment.................................................................................... Let us, by this proposal, really prove that we will adopt a fairer model to calculate this fee or to collect this fee, because the fees collected in our country are significantly higher than those in other European countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jeleva, there is no economic logic whatsoever that the fee for managing the funds for payment should be linked to their profitability. Why am I saying this? Because these are the payment funds that should have fresh money at any moment. If they invest in long-term instruments, this means that the resource that remains in these funds is falling and they will have difficulties with payment. If they prefer aggressive investment instruments, investment policy, and that should be written because with these investment instruments, with this investment policy and with conservative investment opportunities, there is no way companies can realise a yield that will be transferred to the pensioners' money they receive. However, from now on, without having the relevant reserve and without having relevant investment regimes, what you are proposing cannot be implemented in practice because the way you have made the proposals.. several different components of this model on the second pillar, there is no way they can be operated if there are no guarantee funds separately scheduled if there are no additional reserves and if there is no new investment portfolio to ensure the payment of this yield that you are talking about. The main objective of these payment funds is to preserve the value of the assets in the Fund rather than increase them in order to be able to make a profit because at any given time they make payments.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ademov, you are somewhat contradicting each other because you say that this cannot be done, and that is not the case. Our proposals, again I say, are proposals that are presented to our attention by the Financial Supervision Commission and they are bound together. Yes, philosophy is changing somewhat, but with all these proposals that we are accepting today, isn't it changing?! They are also changing, even somewhat much of what colleagues from GERB propose, are precisely the proposals of the Commission for Financial Supervision. I don't see anything illogical here, on the contrary. Several times you repeat about this guarantee fund, and most likely after the adoption of these changes that we are now making in the Social Security Code, it will very soon be necessary to make a consistent, resulting many, because there are problems now, and now there are mechanisms that are not scheduled. This can be signed. And the fact that we guarantee a better and fairer fee, which must be deducted from the insured persons and their accounts after receiving a pension right, is fairer. We're talking about the yield and the percentage they'll get after they retire. And I'll tell you why you're contradicting each other. In your speech in the Commission, you say that these funds are only for the payment of the respective pensions and for nothing else, and that profits or any additional income can be formed from them. So what yield are you talking about? Isn't that the kind of money that goes only to pay off these pension supplements? That is why I say that once again you are trying the same thing, but you are cheating it a little bit, and as if our proposals are not correct, they are not properly scheduled. No, it's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u115	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Gokov, wait a minute, there will be a procedure. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for extending the working hours of today's plenary session until the vote on item three of the so-called agenda for today is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there another position, another opinion? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, obnoxious opinion, obnoxious opinion. I am sure that we must adopt this bill and become a law, because people's pensions must be paid. Again, I note that with these moves we are constantly making, we are violating the overall work of the National Assembly and the work of the committees. I take the floor not so much to make a counter-proposal, it is obvious that you will vote on it, but to draw attention to the members of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints that the meeting will begin. It's being transmitted online from the hall, and we're changing the hours, we've invited outsiders, we have a connection with civil organisations that will report, and we're changing the entire schedule of people. That's not how you do it! I would like to say that the Commission meeting on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints will begin 15 minutes after the National Assembly has completed its work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u119	Yes, thank you. However, the decision of the National Assembly is of the greatest weight, so it is to be voted on. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's procedural proposal to extend the working time until the adoption of item three. Vote 108 MPs: 84, against 23, abstention 1. The decision to extend working hours has been adopted. What do you got? [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov wants the floor and the rapporteur is on the stand.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u121	No, wait a minute. Mr. Ademov, please don't continue, and we will vote separately the rest. We are currently discussing Mr. Gokov's proposal and it is the only one we are debating. Then we'll discuss the rest of it. Give me the stands, step back, please. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I note that, in practice, the importer, the Council of Ministers in this case, with this proposal under § 37 introduces a new fee for the payment of pension supplements, which will remain in private pension funds in pension companies again. If you support the offer of the importer, i.e. the Council of Ministers, in Chapter 18 "Taxes and deductions" in art. 201, para. 1 of the Social Security Code, the insured persons will obtain point three, which will be introduced another new one, a mandatory fee on account and a burden on the same insured person who has begun to receive his pension. Notice, this contribution will amount to 0,5% again on all the assets of the account. This fee will, of course, be for the benefit of pension companies under the favourable pretext for carrying out the activities of additional compulsory pension insurance and for the management of pension funds. How long do you charge and how long do you charge people? The logical question follows: when did the NSI charge for payment of pensions? The answer is never. Why, then, should there be a fee in favour of private pension funds? How are they more privileged than the National Insurance Institute? Is it not the payment of additional pensions a matter of an organisation of the implementation of their obligation to do so, initially following the idea of the second pillar, to pay the pensions of pensioners who have spent their money with them for years and are obliged by the State? This is not some newly introduced service ordered by the customer to pay a new fee. The fact that pensions must be paid was clear with the idea of the second pillar. How private pension funds regulate internal communication between their employees and their units, how they organise the payment of pensions, whether on a cashier, whether on a bank card they are activities for which the relevant pension companies are responsible. They must have taken into account the costs of this payment by now. Against the backdrop of the serious tensions of the insured persons, of the whole society and of the trade unions against the deduction of any insurance contribution of the insured persons, which until recently was 5%, and since 2019 is 3.75 percent, the introduction of a new fee is cynicism. We importers of this proposal, before presenting it to the attention of the people's representation, have long argued at all about the fairness of this newly introduced fee: what is the basis for having it and whether it should not be dropped completely; if there is it, is it not a fee the amount of which is calculated not on all assets in the lot, but only as a percentage of the income from investments, which is to a certain extent a compromise option? I accept Dr. Ademov's view as a replica of the colleague, but once again we need to think about the justice of all these fees. We suggest that it is not more than 10 percent of the income realised by investing the funds. I now call on you to support our proposal, which is naturally not accepted by the majority of the Commission, or not to support the importer's proposal even with the Commission's version, with which the fee will be dropped at all. I call on you because it is fair, because the fee is not justified by anything, because, as private pension funds have gone, they will ask for more and more fees. It's not crazy who eats the pie. Crazy is the one who gives it to him.Says in a Bulgarian proverb. Where is the boundary between the claims of private pension funds and the interests of insured persons? Where is the limit of tolerance on the part of the insured persons and especially of the legislator in our person? Enough funds have accumulated pension companies and private pension funds and sufficient profits to allow them to pay pensioners with life pensions without additional fees and other conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u123	Thank you. Are there any lines to the speech of the National Representative Georgi Gokov? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other comments on the proposal? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs to change § 37. Vote 113 MPs: 35 against 70, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Now state the text of the proposal of the MP Svetlana Angelova and the text of § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a proposal I should have read a little while ago, and I'm sorry I missed it, but it's about § 37 by importer. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 86: ........ 86...................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 201 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words the pension funds and the payment funds shall be added. (b) To be created t. 3: ,3. a fee calculated on the value of the net assets of the fund for the payment of life pensions under art. 192a and the Fund for deferred payments under art. 192b, depending on the period during which they were managed by the pension fund, up to 0,5 per cent per year. 2. In para. 2 The tax under para. 1, t. 2 shall be replaced by the fees under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 are assigned.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u125	Thank you. Statements outside those made so far under the same paragraph? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Commission text for § 37, which becomes § 86. They voted 113 MPs: 81 against 14, abstention 18. The text of § 37, which receives a numbering 86, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u126	There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 87: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 241, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 169a, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 169a, para. 2, p. 1.. 4 and 6. 11. the type and amount of the pension and the ways of updating and reclaiming Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 88: ...... 88............................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 247, para. 6 words................................................................................. 171, para. The following points are inserted Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 89: ........... 89................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In an al. 1 words.............................................................................. 178, 180a and 180b P.O. Box 76.A. Art. 2, Art. 178, 178a, 180a and 180b. 2. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 175a, 178a, 180a and 180b Art. 175a, Art. P.O. Box 76.A. Art. 2, Art. 178, 178a, 180a and 180b. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 90: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 250, para. 1 shall be added at the end and guarantee the gross amount of the contributions. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 91: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 318 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 additional social security funds shall be added after the words.................................................................................................................. 2. In para. 4. (a) the additional social security funds shall be added after the words.......................................................................................................... is replaced by............................................................................................................................................ (b) A sentence second is created: The management and management of a universal pension fund together with the management of the funds established in connection with it for making payments shall be taken over. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 92: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 319 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the title, the words for the claims shall be replaced by the words for the claims. 2. In the text before t. 1 the words "retirement reserves' shall be replaced by "retirement reserves' under art. 192, para. Art. 2, Art. 193, para. Art. 8, Art. 193a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 213, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 93: ..... 93......................................................................... Article 320 is amended as follows: "Translation of supplementary social security funds and payment funds Art. 320. (1) Additional Social Security Fund and Payment Fund may be converted only by merger or infusion, provided that the rights of insured persons and pensioners are maintained. (2) An additional social security fund and a payment fund may not be divided or separated from itself another fund, as well as converted into a commercial company, a non-profit association or cooperative. (3) In the event of the infusion or merger of supplementary social security funds and payment funds, the receiving fund or the newly formed fund shall be the successor of the end-of-life funds. (4) If the supplementary social security company is not converted, it shall manage supplementary social security funds and payment funds may only be converted by means of an injection into an appropriate fund managed by another supplementary social security company, subject to prior authorisation by the Commission for the protection of competition. (5) The conversion of supplementary social security funds and payment funds shall take effect from the date of the entry of the infusion or merger in the register of the county court at the seat of the supplementary social security fund. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 94: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 323, para. 1 the additional social security fund shall be added after the words Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 95: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 325 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 additional social security funds shall be added after the words..................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2 the words "retirement reserves' shall be replaced by "retirement reserves' under art. 192, para. Art. 2, Art. 193a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 213, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 96: ...... 96........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 327, para. 2 the words "retirement reserves" shall be replaced by "retirement reserves" under art. 192, para. Art. 2, Art. 193a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 213, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 97: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 329 after the word "funds" shall be added for additional social security. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 97: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 329 after the word "funds" shall be added for additional social security. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 98: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 332 is amended as follows: "Conservation of the purpose of reserves under art. 192, para. Art. 2, Art. 193a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 213, para. 2 Art. 332. In the event of termination of a pension insurance company in accordance with art. 331 reserves formed under art. 192, para. Art. 2, Art. 193a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 213, para. 2 retain their purpose and be in reserve for the same purpose in the respective pension companies according to the plan and contracts under art. 331, para. 5. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 99: ......... 99..................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 Within three months of its appointment, the trade union shall draw up and submit to the Commission a plan for: 1. infusion of supplementary social security funds and funds to make payments to the company in bankruptcy in the relevant funds managed by other supplementary social security companies; 2. transfer of the funds to the individual accounts of the insured persons and pensioners of the funds managed by the company in bankruptcy to other relevant supplementary social security funds and payment funds under conditions and in order laid down by a commission regulation. 2. In para. 3 the words "retirement reserves' shall be replaced by "retirement reserves' under art. 192, para. Art. 2, Art. 193a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 213, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create § 100: ....... 100........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 338, para. 3 the words in the funds managed are deleted and finally added to the funds managed by the company for additional social security and payment funds. Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 101: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 340 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: In the event of the conversion of a fund for making payments, the persons receiving payments from it shall be notified of the transformation under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7 and in them the words. The following points are inserted after paragraph 3 (a) (i) (ii) of Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 102: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 342, para. 1 the words "the company or supplementary social security fund' shall be replaced by "the supplementary social security company', "the supplementary social security fund' or "the payment fund'. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 103: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 343 t. 1 is amended as "1." the conversion plan for an additional social security company, an additional social security fund and a payment fund; Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 104: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 344 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words of the implementing acts, a comma shall be placed and added to the acts which circumvent their requirements. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 2 point (b) shall be inserted after the words......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) c. 4 the supplementary social security funds shall be added after the words the rules of the payment funds shall be laid down; (c) c. 19 words.............................................................................. 121c, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in (d) a new item shall be created. 20: It's 20. limit or prohibit the free disposal of the company's assets for additional social security or an additional social security fund or a payment fund it manages when the company's capital, own funds or reserves are violated, the reserve of the fund for additional compulsory pension insurance or the amount of the funds required in the payment funds. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 105: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European "1." of art. Art. 121a, Art. 121d, para. Art. 17, art. 121d1, para. Art. 5, art. 121g, para. Art. 11, art. Art. 121h, Art. 122a, para. Art. 4, Art. 122k, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 123a, para. Art. 11 and 12, Art. 123b, para. Art. 1 and 6, Art. 123c, para. Art. 7, Art. 123d, para. 4 and 8.. 16........................................................................................... 123e, para. Art. 5, art. 123e2, para. Art. 4, Art. 123z, 123z1, 123z2, art. 123z3, para. Art. 1, 2 and 4 1232, para. Art. 9, Art. Art. 135, 142a, art. 143, para. Art. 3, Art. 144, para. Art. 5, art. 144a, para. Art. 3, Art. 6, Art. 145, para. Art. 3, Art. 153, 154, 173, art. 175a, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 180, para. Art. 1, art. 181, para. Art. 1, art. 188, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Article 216, 216a, Art. ) (a.k.a. Art. 4, Art. Article 223, 224, Art. 229, para. Art. 5, art. 229a, para. Art. 2 and 4, Art. 229c, para. 1, 2 and 7 "9" art. 230, para. Art. 5 and 6, Art. Art. 231, 233, Art. 235, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 235a, Art. 236, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 237, 238, 239, 240, 248a, 248b, art. 252, para. Art. 3, Art. 317, para. Art. 3, Art. 326, para. Art. 2, Art. 327, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 330, Art. Art. 330a, Art. 331, para. Art. 5 and art. Council Regulation (EC) No 1688/2001 of 22 December 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1688/2001 on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 1088/98 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 96). 3, is punished with a fine of 700 to 10 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Art. 2. 121e, para. Art. 3, Art. 122nd, para. Art. 1, art. 122k, para. Art. 4, Art. 123, para. Art. 1 and 4, Art. 123c, para. Art. 1, Art. 6, Art. 123e, para. 1... 4, 6, 7 and 9... 11.................................................................................................... 123e1, para. Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 123e2, para. 1 " 3 and 5" art. Art. 123g. 123th, para. Article 5 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 123i1, Art. 1232, para. 1 "Six and 10, Art. 127, para. Art. 6 and 7 129, para. 1.. 8 and para. Art. 10 and 11, Art. Art. 131, 139, 142, Art. 144a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Article 167, 167a, Art. 168, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 169a, 169b, 169c, 169d, art. 170, para. Article 7 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Art. 172, Art. 175a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. P.O. Box 76.A. Art. 1, 2 and 4 177a, 178a, 179a, art. 179b, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 179c, 180a, 180b, art. 180c, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 185, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 186, 186a, 187, art. 187a, para. Art. 1, art. Article 190, Art. 192, para. Art. 1, Art. 6, Art. 192a, para. 1, 2, 6 Art. 192b, Art. 193, para. Art. 5, Art. 11, Art. 193a, para. Article 7 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Art. 193b, Art. 201, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 202, 212, art. 213, para. Art. 1, Art. 6, Art. 229d, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Each Member State shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any changes to the provisions of this Regulation. 1.. 8 and para. Art. 15, Art. 17, Art. In particular, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1... 3 and para. Art. 13, Art. 15, Art. In particular, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 7, Art. 234, para. 1.. 8 and para. Art. 10 - 12, Art. 241, 241a 243, 244, 245, art. 246, para. 1 "Six and 10, Art. 248, 249, 251a, 251a1, 251c, 251d, 251e, 251e, art. 252, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. Art. 1, art. 257, 258, art. 317, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Article 319, Art. 325, para. Art. 2, Art. 326, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 332, Art. 336, para. Art. 1, 3 and 4 340, para. Art. 1, 2 and 3, Art. Article 342 348, para. A fine of BGN 1500 to BGN 20 000 is punishable by a fine.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Art. 3. 121, para. 2, 3 and 5, Art. Art. 121b, Art. 121c, para. Art. 1 - 10 and 12, Art. Art. 121d, Art. 121e, para. Art. 2 and 4, Art. 121g, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 122g, Art. 123a, para. Art. 1 - 10, Art. 123b, para. 2 " 5, 7, 8, 9 and 11, art. 123d, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 126, Art. 133a, para. Art. 6, Art. 8, Art. 154a, para. Art. 1, art. 169, 175, 177, 179, 203, art. No. 209, para. Art. 3, Art. 226, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 259, Art. 322, para. 7 and the ordinance under art. 169, para. 14 is punished with a fine of 3,000 to 40,000 leva.;................................................................. Under § 38, an offer is made by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 106: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In § 1, para. 2 of the additional provisions the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The second sentence is created: "Insured persons are also the persons for whom insurance contributions have been made and who receive a one-off or deferred payment from a supplementary pension fund or from a deferred payment fund.' 2. point 12 is amended as follows: ..12. The pensioner is a natural person who receives a personal or inherited supplementary pension from a supplementary pension fund or from a life pension fund. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 shall be added after the words the supplementary insurance fund (s) or the life benefit fund (s).
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u127	I shall open the debates on new paragraphs 87 to 105, as well as on the wording of § 38, which shall be numbered 106 with the version of the Commission. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put the above paragraphs to the vote. They voted 108 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 31. The proposed paragraphs 87 to 106 with a new numbering have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u128	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 39, an offer is made by the National Representative Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs: In Transitional and Final Provisions § The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u129	Statements? I'll put the name of the division to the vote. They voted 99 MPs: 71, against 2, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. Vote 97 MPs: 28, Against 62, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u130	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The pull didn't work. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u133	I re-vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. They voted 106 MPs: 33, against 67, abstentioned 6. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u134	The Commission's editing, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 107: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Persons of which less than 5 years remain until 30 June 2021 until their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and which are not granted a pension for internship and age may exercise the right of choice under Art. 30 June 2021 on a one-off basis. 124a, para. 1 for a change of their insurance from the Fund of Pensions, respectively Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69, of state social security in a universal pension fund according to the regulation under art. 179, para. 3 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u135	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 39, which shall become § 107. They voted 108 MPs: 77, none, abstention 31. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u136	Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 108. Mr. Chairman, c. 2 I have an editorial proposal which in no way changes the meaning of what is proposed. Since this bill proposes the issuance of regulations by the Financial Supervision Commission, these regulations, which are under this law, must amend regulations that are under the current Social Security Code. That's why I'm proposing to you. 2 of the Commission's proposal to change the text as follows: "2." introduces regulations on the enforcement of the law in accordance with that law. The whole editing sounds like this: The Commission proposes to establish § 108: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. By 30 June 2021, the Financial Supervision Commission shall: 1. adopt regulations on the application of the law;
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u137	The law in accordance with this law. That's how you read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u138	..of this law....of this law...of this law. "2." introduces regulations on the enforcement of the law in accordance with that law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u139	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote first the editorial amendment proposed by Mr. Ademov. They voted 105 MPs: for 73, none, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 108 with a text on the Commission report with the editorial amendment already adopted. Vote 95 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u140	Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 109: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. By 31 August 2021, pension insurance companies shall comply with the requirements of that law and its implementing regulations. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 110: ........................................................... By 31 August 2021, the guardian banks shall bring their activities into line with the requirements of this law and its implementing regulations. Under § 40, an offer is made by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 111: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss With the entry into force of this law, the existing pension reserves for the payment of lifelong pensions from universal pension funds are converted into reserves to guarantee the payment of lifelong pensions. Under § 41, there is a proposal from Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 112: .......... 112.................... 112................................................... Until 31 August 2021, pension corporations shall: 1. adjust the amount of reserves under Art. 1. 193, para. 8 in accordance with the requirements of this Law; 2. create a reserve under art. 193a, para. 1 by transferring to it the funds released from the reserves referred to in Article 1. 193, para. 8 after bringing their size into conformity with c. 1; 3. bring their capital according to the requirements of art. 121c, para. 2... 7............................................................... Under § 42, an offer is made by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 113: ................. 113............................................................ (1) By 31 July 2021, including the National Revenue Agency, shall provide once the pension insurance companies with information on the gross amount of the contributions transferred to the insured persons to the universal pension funds they manage as of 30 June 2021. (2) The information under para. 1 shall also include data on the gross amount of the contributions transferred by the National Insurance Institute. Under § 43, there is a proposal from Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 114: .............................................................................. By 31 December 2023, an assessment of the products offered by the universal pension funds shall be carried out, the functioning of the mechanism for their calculation and update and of the guarantees offered, the provision of reserves and the capital requirements of pension companies. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 115: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Act on Accounting (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 t. 5 is amended as It's five o'clock. the funds for making payments and insurance funds within the meaning of the Social Security Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 2, p. 4 after the words..funds for additional insurance is added..and funds for making payments.. 3. In § 1, t. 22, point (d) of the Additional Provisions is finally added to the supplementary pension and payment funds. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 116: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the BULSTAT Register Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 3, para. 1, t. 6 words and insurance cases under art. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Proposal by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 117: * 117. In the Law on Deposit Guarantee in Banks (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 11, para. 1, t. 4 the words "indemnities for compulsory and voluntary pension insurance' shall be replaced by the supplementary pension funds they manage and the payment fund (s).
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Statements? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose an editorial amendment in Paragraph 114 of the Commission Report, with the replacement of
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u143	Can I have the lyrics later?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u144	I will read the whole text with the proposal for editing, Mr. Chairman: .............................................................................. By 31 December 2025, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall assess the products offered by the universal pension funds, the functioning of the mechanism for their calculation and update and of the guarantees offered, the provision of reserves and the capital requirements of pension companies. My motive, Mr President, honourable Members, is as follows: Men born after 1 January 1960 will obtain pension rights after 1 August 2024. It will be on this date that they will be over 64 years of age 7 months, that is, if the assessment is carried out before 31 December 2023, it will be a collection of women only and will not reflect the actual population of insured persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u146	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, this suffered bill for more than two years several working groups, several ministers of labour and social policy, several coordination procedures between the individual participants in the additional compulsory pension insurance came to a fragile balance between the interest of insured persons and private pension funds. You propose that we extend the date again to the end of 2024. 2024 of the month of September... [[Replyes:.2025!.]] 2025? Look, 2024, August is beginning to pay off men, because in this bill we are adopting now, the cohort is 200,000 women! For these three years, 200,000 women will be entitled to an additional pension under Title II. And now you want to explain again at the last moment to the insured persons that there must be changes, there must be analysis! The best option is this analysis, as is in the draft Council of Ministers, and you are changing the draft of the Council of Ministers once again with the Commission's proposals for financial supervision, now at the last moment you are making a new correction, with which you want to reject the discussion again by 2025?! The insured persons in Bulgaria should know, should be informed about what they should do. What I say is extremely important because once again, the insured persons will be faced with the inability to have an informed choice. Therefore, please, colleagues, do not accept this proposal, which God knows where it came from at the last moment?! At any levels, where is this proposal discussed, is it consistent, is it consulted? The most important thing I would like to say about this project, honourable Members. First of all, the payout phase is settled. Now, within the next three years, we will see how these guarantees work. And why do we have to postpone this analysis until 2025, when men will already have the right.. and they are not 200,000, but much more, men will have the right to an additional pension?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u147	Thank you. Mrs. Angelova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u148	Line, yeah. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making a line from colleague Ivanov. There is no drama about what he proposed because de facto returns the text of the importer, namely, no later than 31 December 2025, to carry out this analysis by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This is the text on the importer, it is this text that is agreed with the social partners, and I think it is appropriate that it be adopted rather than shortening the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u149	Thank you. A line? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Ademov, I thank you for your reply, but again to clarify that this proposal really returns, on the one hand, the text of the Council of Ministers, which is seeking the really fragile option, so let's say, balance between the insured persons, these are the men I mentioned, we are doing it because they will acquire their retirement age after 1 August 2024. Let's do it for a period of 2025, by bringing the clarification that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should do this analysis because in the text proposed by the Commission, there was no authority or institution to do this analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u151	Thank you. Speaking, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u152	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! You are referring to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy at the time to carry out this analysis. Based on what readings? Do you have any information on what expertise and registers the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has? In no case alone the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is able to make this analysis. He can do it together with the Financial Supervision Commission, he can do it together with the National Insurance Institute, he can do it together with the Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies. Alone by those institutions that I have listed, none of them can do this analysis! Take whatever text you want, it doesn't matter. What analysis are they gonna do, how they're gonna do it, where they gonna get information? It doesn't make sense. And why at the last minute you have to accept these things again is not clear. Okay, by importer, there's a text that says... But there is no text on the importer anywhere that says that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is carrying out this analysis. This analysis can be carried out by several institutions again! Because this analysis has to say how the mechanisms are offered, how the reserves are offered, how the guarantees are offered, how the guarantee funds work, is there a problem with them? The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with all due respect to this ministry, has spent more than half my life working with this ministry, there is no capacity to do so without information. It is the information that can come from the Financial Supervision Commission, the information that can come from the National Insurance Institute, from the companies that work. How will the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy oblige the Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies to provide this information?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u153	Thank you. Are there lines? Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Dr. Ademov! There is no drama, as I said, to accept the proposal of colleague Ivanov. In the text proposed to an importer and the proposal that I and a group of MPs make, there is no indication of who to do this analysis. There is nothing wrong with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to make this analysis. It may require information from the National Insurance Institute, from the Financial Supervision Commission, from pension insurance companies. So in order for this analysis to be more thorough, it takes longer time. And that is why we propose that the deadline for the importer be returned by 31 December 2025. It is right that the lawmaker is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which proposes this text, to do this analysis, because only he can do the most accurate analysis, gathering information from all the institutions concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The text that is being proposed, what they are trying to give up the proposal, which was agreed with the Financial Supervision Commission, is a proposal not of Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, but of the Financial Supervision Commission, which is related to something you need to understand. It's very simple. In 2024, the payment of additional pensions in different options began in different varieties of the second pillar. And what do you suggest now? Once the payment has begun, then do the analysis?! Well, for three years, women... Isn't the smaller cohort going to give us the opportunity to do an analysis? Why do we want the men to come in and then do an analysis?! That's not clear. Why do we have to wait for the men? In this case, we come to a situation where we can refer to the Bulgarian saying "After the rain" hood. So, men are going to start getting from these funds that we've described now in the Bill, and then we're going to be looking for someone to analyze, whether it's the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u157	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the following texts: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 109 with a text on the Commission Report...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u158	I just remembered that the local elections are 2023!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u159	...the Commission's proposal to create a new § 110 with a text on the Commission Report...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u160	There's no election disappointment! That's not how you do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u161	Mr. Ademov! ...the proposal for the version of § 40 made by the Commission, which becomes § 111; the version proposed by the Commission for § 41, which becomes § 112; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 42, which becomes § 113. They voted 106 MPs: 75, none, abstention 31. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. I put to the vote the editorial amendments made by Mr. Ivanov. 100 MPs voted: 91, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 43, which becomes § 114 with the amendments already adopted by Mr. Ivanov; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 115 with a text on the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 116 with a text on the Commission Report; and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 117 with a text according to the Commission Report. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Let's move on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SOLVENCY. Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor to present the Second Voting Report to the Committee on Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 5 January 2021, submitted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 28 January 2021, the report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. "Improvement and Supplement to the Waste Management Act. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 after the words.. or decrease of.................................................................................................................. is added...................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 2, p. the (e) substances intended for use as feed materials within the meaning of art. 3, Paragraph 2 (g) of Regulation (EC) No 877/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 concerning the placing on the market and use of feed, amending Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council, repealing Council Directive 79/373/EEC, Commission Directive 80/511/EEC, Commission Directives 82/471/EEC, 83/228/EEC, 93/74/EEC, 93/113/EC and 96/25/EC and Commission Decision 2004/217/EC (OJ L 229, 21 September 2009) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4. ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words have undergone a process of recovery, including recycling, and meet criteria that are consistent with the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the substance or article must be used for specific purposes; 2. In para. 2 after the words the criteria are added to the application of the conditions and finally added to the criteria that take into account the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health arising from the substance or object and necessarily include: 1. eligible waste used as raw materials for recovery activities; 2. authorised processes and processing techniques; 3. criteria for the quality of non-waste materials derived from recovery activities in accordance with applicable product standards, including limit values for pollutants, where necessary; 4. requirements regarding management systems for demonstrating compliance with the end-of-waste criteria, including quality control, self-observation and accreditation, where appropriate; and 5. requirement for a declaration of compliance. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) Waste by para. 1 shall be reported for the fulfilment of the recovery and recycling targets where the end-of-waste requirements under this law and under the relevant regulation under para. 2. 4. Allinea 4 is canceled. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 5a: Art. 5a. (1) Any person using or placing on the market for the first time a substance or article which has ceased to be waste shall ensure that the substance or article complies with the relevant requirements under the applicable legislation on chemicals and products. (2) The conditions under art. 5, para. 1 must be fulfilled for a substance or article which has ceased to be waste before it is subject to the legislation on chemical substances and products. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (4) To provide incentives for the implementation of the hierarchy under para. 1 economic instruments and measures may be used by: 1. extended producer responsibility schemes for different types of waste and measures to increase their efficiency, cost efficiency and management; 2. redemption schemes and measures to promote the effective collection of used products and materials; 3. good planning of investments in waste management infrastructure, including through EU funds; 4. sustainable procurement to promote better waste management and the use of recycled products and materials; 5. removing subsidies that are not in line with the waste hierarchy; 6. support for research and innovation in leading recycling and exploitation technologies. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, in which it contains Paragraph 10. 6, p. 2 the words "all interested parties' shall be replaced by "the interested parties', and the word "the parties' shall be replaced by "emergency'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 are created. 9 s 15: ? (9) The persons referred to in para. 1 finance the costs of the operation of the systems under art. 15 which are defined in a transparent cost-effective manner and do not exceed the cost of providing waste management services. (10) The costs to be covered by the persons under para. 1 and/or the criteria for determining the remuneration to the persons under para. 2, p. 2 shall be determined by the regulations referred to in Article 2. 13, para. 1 and include at least: 1. the costs related to the activities of separate collection of waste and their subsequent transport and treatment, including the achievement of the defined in the regulations under art. 13, para. 1 objectives and the cost of investment in the maintenance and development of separate collection systems; 2. the costs of collecting information and reporting data and carrying out audits; 3. the costs of educational campaigns, information activities and promotion of separate collection. (11) With the regulations referred to in art. 13, para. 1 shall also determine the cases where the remuneration which the persons referred to in para. 1 shall be paid to the recovery organisation, differentiated in relation to individual products or groups of similar products, taking into account their sustainability, suitability for repair, suitability for reuse and recycling, as well as the presence of hazardous substances. (12) Recovery organisations shall disclose at least the following information on their website: 1. ownership and membership regime; 2. amount of certain remuneration for products placed on the market, in cash or tonne; 3. procedure for the selection of waste management operators; 4. achieving the respective objectives under the regulations under art. 13, para. 1. (13) Persons performing their duties individually authorised under art. 81, disclose on their website the information under para. 12, t. 4. (14) In the provision of information to the public under para. 12 and 13 shall be kept confidential of commercial information where such confidentiality is provided for by a law or an act of the European Union. (15) Alinea 1 shall not apply to persons who place textiles and second-hand footwear on the market. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 14a: Art. 14a. (1) Person under art. 14, para. 1, based in another Member State of the European Union, which places products on the market of the Republic of Bulgaria after use of which widespread waste is formed, as defined by the regulations under art. 13, para. 1 may designate an authorised representative, a legal person or a natural person, registered with a permanent address, respectively, in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, to fulfil its obligations under this law and its implementing regulations resulting from the extended responsibility of the manufacturer. (2) The same authorised representative may represent several persons under para. 1 for different types of products. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. A third sentence shall be created: The reports shall include at least the factual findings concerning: 1. Financial management, including compliance with the requirements of art. 14, para. 9 and 10; 2. the quality of the data collected and reported in accordance with the requirements of Chapter Four, Section I and with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 3, p. 13 after the number s.p.p.p. is added as well as information on the measures to prevent waste generation and the prevention of unregulated waste disposal.p.p.m. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 a preparation for re-use, recycling or other activities under the "supplier' shall be added after the words "supplier'. 2. Alinei 2 and 3 are amended as follows: . (2) Where necessary for compliance with the provision of para. 1 and to facilitate or improve preparation for reuse, recycling or other recovery activities, waste shall be collected separately and not mixed with other wastes or other materials of different properties. (3) Exemptions from the requirement under para. 2 shall be permitted under the terms of this law or the regulations of art. 13, para. 1 if at least one of the following conditions is met: 1. the joint collection of certain types of waste shall be without prejudice to their potential to be prepared for reuse, recycling or other recovery activities in accordance with art. 6, para. 1 and after completion of these activities the results shall be of a similar quality to what is achieved at the separate collection; 2. separate waste collection does not produce the most environmentally friendly results in view of the overall environmental impact of the management of the relevant waste streams; 3. separate collection is not technically feasible, given the good practices in the collection of waste; 4. separate collection may result in disproportionate economic costs, taking into account: (a) the costs related to the harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the mixed collection and treatment of waste; (b) the potential for improvements in the efficiency of waste collection and treatment; (c) the proceeds from the sale of secondary raw materials; (d) the application of the principle 3. They're creating an al. 4.. (4) The conditions under para. 3 may be reviewed taking into account good practices in the separate collection of waste and other achievements in waste management. (5) The burning of waste under art. 31 and 34, which are collected separately for their preparation for re-use and recycling, with the exception of waste generated by the follow-up to the treatment of separately collected waste for which incineration gives the most environmentally friendly results according to the waste hierarchy under art. 6, para. 1. (6) Before or during the recovery of waste, the necessary measures shall be taken to remove hazardous substances, mixtures and components from hazardous waste in order to treat them according to the requirements of art. 1, para. Art. 3 and Art. 3. 6, para. 1. (7) The Minister of Environment and Water shall prepare a report on the implementation of para. In the case of municipal waste and bio-waste, including the territorial scope of the separate collection and the scope of the materials, as well as the exceptions under para. 3. (8) Where no recovery of the waste has been undertaken in accordance with the provision of para. 1, persons whose activity forms and/or treats waste shall take the necessary measures for environmentally friendly disposal of waste in accordance with the provisions of art. 1, para. 3 on the protection of human health and the environment. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 3.................................................... "3." by 31 December 2025 at the latest, preparation for re-use and recycling of municipal waste up to at least 55 percent of the total weight of such waste; 4. by 31 December 2030 at the latest, preparation for reuse and recycling of municipal waste up to at least 60 percent of the total weight of such waste; 5. by 31 December 2035 at the latest, preparation for reuse and recycling of municipal waste up to at least 65 percent of the total weight of such waste; 6. by 31 December 2035 at the latest, the amount of municipal waste deposited shall be reduced to 10 per cent or less by the total amount of municipal waste generated (by weight). 2. Alinei 2, 3 and 4 are amended as follows: (2) The objectives of para. 1, t. The time limits laid down in Paragraph 15 of the transitional and final provisions shall be reached in steps to be achieved in accordance with the time limits set out in Paragraph 6. (3) In each of the regions referred to in art. 49, para. 9 objectives under para. 1 shall be implemented jointly by all municipalities in the region, in accordance with the decision under art. 26, para. 1, t. 6. (4) For the calculation of the objectives under para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 shall be taken into account the weight of municipal waste generated which is prepared for reuse or recycled in the relevant calendar year by: 1. the weight of household waste prepared for reuse is the weight of products or components of products that have become household waste and have been subjected to all necessary verification, cleaning or repair activities so that their reuse is possible without further sorting or prior treatment; 2. the weight of recycled household waste shall be the weight of waste which, after having been subjected to all the necessary verification, sorting and other preliminary removal activities of waste materials not subject to further treatment and in order to ensure high quality recycling, shall be included in a recycling process where waste materials are processed into products, materials or substances. 3. They're creating an al. 5.. 10: The amount of waste material that has ceased to be waste as a result of preparatory activities before being processed may be reported as recycled where these materials are intended for subsequent processing in products, materials or substances used for their initial purpose or for other purposes. Waste materials intended for use as fuel or other means of obtaining energy or burning, pouring or disposal shall not be accounted for to achieve the objectives of recycling. (6) For the calculation of the achievement of the objectives under para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 can be taken into account the recycling of metals separated from municipal waste when recycled metals meet certain quality criteria adopted by an act of the European Commission. (7) Waste sent to another Member State for the purpose of preparing for reuse, recycling or flooding in the Member State shall be reported with a view to achieving the objectives under para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 only by the Member State in which the waste is generated. (8) Waste exported outside the European Union intended for preparation for reuse or recycling shall be reported for the achievement of the objectives of para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 when the requirements of art. 48 and the exporter may demonstrate that the requirements of Regulation (EC) No are met for the carriage of waste and that the treatment of waste outside the European Union has been carried out under conditions which are approximately equivalent to the requirements of the applicable European Union environmental law. (9) For the calculation of the objectives under para. 1, t. 6 shall be taken into account: 1. the weight of household waste formed and intended for disposal, to be calculated for a given calendar year; 2. the weight of waste from pre-recycling or other recovery of municipal waste, such as sorting or mechanical biological treatment, which is subsequently deposited, which is included in the weight of municipal waste reported as depopulated; 3. the weight of municipal waste entering incineration disposal activities and the weight of waste generated in the stabilisation activities of the biodegradable part of municipal waste in order to be subsequently depopulated, which shall be reported as disposal; 4. the weight of waste generated during recycling activities or other municipal waste recovery activities that are subsequently deposited, which is not included in the weight of municipal waste reported as depopulated. (10) Where municipal waste is sent to another Member State or exported outside the European Union for the purpose of disposal in accordance with Regulation (EC) No are included in the total quantity of all landfilled waste by the Member State in which the waste is collected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 2, p. 6 after the words "shoes and textiles" shall be added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 12 and 13: ..12. persons who place shoes and textiles on the market; 13. persons who place packaged goods on the market. 2. In para. 2, p. 4 is added at the end. 3. The creation of para. 11: In the registers referred to in para. 1, t. The persons referred to in Article 2 shall be entered under Article 5, 12 and 13. 14a for the relevant types of products to be placed on the market, indicating the name of the person under art. 14, para. 1 which is represented, respectively, the company, EIC or equivalent number and address of management. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, in which it states, 1 words.............................................................................. 13, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 48, para. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Art. 1 and Art. 1 13, para. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4. (a) c. 2 after the words "waste flows' "waste' shall be added and waste containing a significant amount of critical raw materials for the economy determined by an act of the European Commission'; (b) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. measures to promote re-use preparation activities by encouraging the establishment of networks to prepare for re-use and repair and supporting such networks, by facilitating, where compatible with the proper management of waste, access of such networks to waste stored in recovery schemes or installations that are suitable for re-use preparation but are not intended for re-use in those schemes or installations, and by promoting the use of economic instruments, procurement criteria, quantitative targets or other measures; (c) point 14 is repealed; (d) shall be established. 22 and 23: "22." measures to prevent the disposal of: (a) Separately collected household waste and biowaste in order to prepare them for reuse and recycling, with the exception of the waste from the subsequent treatment of separately collected waste for which disposal gives the most environmentally friendly results in accordance with the waste management hierarchy under art. 6, para. 1; (b) household waste suitable for recycling or other recovery, except waste for which disposal gives the most environmentally friendly results in accordance with a waste management hierarchy under art. 6, para. 1 after 1 January 2030; 23. measures to combat and prevent the forms of unregulated waste disposal and to clean unregulated waste. 2. Alinei 7 and 8 are amended as follows: . (7) The plan under para. 1 provides for appropriate measures to promote the development of products and components of products in order to reduce their impact on the environment and the formation of waste in the process of production and subsequent use of the products, and to ensure that the recovery and disposal of the products which have become waste are carried out in accordance with a waste management hierarchy under art. 6, para. 1 and in order to protect human health and the environment. (8) The measures under para. 7 promote the development, production and marketing of products and components of products that are suitable for repeated use, contain recycled materials, are technically sustainable and can be easily repaired and which, after having become waste, are suitable for preparation for reuse and recycling in order to facilitate the good implementation of a waste management hierarchy under art. 6, para. 1. Those measures shall take into account the impact of products throughout their life cycle and, where appropriate, the recycling potential. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, in which it, in para. 5, t. 2 the word "up-to-date' is replaced by "up-to-date'; 9 the words "in particular" shall be deleted and in para. 6 and 7 words entered by an implementing act shall be replaced by an act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 51 . (4) When applying para. 1 the waste prevention programme shall be monitored and the implementation of the measures under art. 50, para. 3, p. 4 for: 1. the reuse of waste to be measured on the basis of a common methodology adopted by an act of the European Commission; 2. preventing the production of food waste by measuring the levels of food waste on the basis of a methodology adopted by an act of the European Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word................................ and............................................................... 2. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: (3) In the programmes under para. 1 measures shall be included for: 1. conducting a regular dialogue between stakeholders involved in the implementation of the extended producer responsibility schemes, including producers and distributors, private or public operators operating in the field of waste, mayors of municipalities, non-profit legal entities and, if applicable, undertakings under the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy, re-use networks and repair, as well as operators preparing for reuse; 2. providing information on measures to prevent waste from being generated, to re-use and to prevent unauthorised disposal of waste; 3. providing information on possible incentives, including economic incentives, for waste holders for the transmission of their waste to separate collection systems; 4. equal treatment of producers of products regardless of their origin or size, including small and medium-sized enterprises producing small quantities of products. (4) Alinea 3, p. 4 shall not apply to the persons referred to in Article 4. 14, para. 2, carrying out their duties individually. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the following additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 after the words the waste is added, including for the necessary infrastructure and for its operation. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 is added at the end. Proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "For the provision of the collateral, each user of the depot is also responsible by transferring the funds due for the provision of the security on the basis of the quantities of waste that it has deposited to the owner of the depot on a monthly basis.' 2. In para. 6 sentences are created in the third and fourth sentences: the act is drawn up on the owner of the depot, which has not transferred the funds owed to the owner to secure the collateral. Where the security is not lodged by the owner but the user has transferred the funds owed to secure the collateral, the act shall be drawn up to the owner of the depot. Under § 29, there is a proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence is created: "For the provision of the calculations, each user of the depot is also responsible by transferring the funds due on a monthly basis to the owner of the depot on the basis of the quantities of waste that he has deposited. 2. In para. 5. (a) c. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to b) To be created t. 3 and 4: "3." 50 percent for re-use and recycling purposes under art. 31, para. 1, t. 3 "6" according to the time limits in § 15, para. 2 of the transitional and final provisions; 4. by 50 per cent for the purposes of reducing depopulated municipal waste according to the time limits in § 15, para. 5 of the transitional and final provisions. 3. In para. 8 sentences are created in the third and fourth sentences: The act shall be drawn up on the owner of the depot, which has not translated to the owner of the depot the charges due for each tonne of landfilled waste. Where the calculations are not made by the owner of the depot but the owner of the depot has translated the charges due for each tonne of landfilled waste, the act shall be drawn up to the owner of the depot. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 3 after the word The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 84a: Art. 84a. (1) The organisation for the recovery of shoe and textile waste shall submit to the application under art. 81, para. 2 signed preliminary written contracts with not less than 10 municipalities ensuring the provision of a separate population collection, not less than 1 000 000 inhabitants. (2) The Treaties under para. 1 must meet the minimum criteria and the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 13, para. 1 for the relevant type of widespread waste. (3) The recovery organisation shall submit to the respective municipality a proposal for the conclusion of the contract under para. 1. (4) The mayor of the municipality shall enter into a contract with only one organization for the recovery of waste of shoes and textiles. (5) Paragraph 4 shall not apply to cities with a population of more than 300,000 with a district division. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38. The Commission proposes to create a new § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 105 the words "the Executive Director of the EEA" shall be replaced by "the Director of the RIEW in whose territory the person is registered" and the words "the 7-day term" shall be replaced by "the 14-day term." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114 t. 1 is amended as "1." the performance of the duties of the persons referred to in art. 14, para. 1 under that law and its implementing regulations, including the correct charge and/or the timely payment of the product fee under art. 59, para 1, t. 1, 4 and 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 41, and the words shall be deleted. The Commission proposes to create a new § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 145, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, t. 13 words................................................................................. The following points are The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147, para. 1 in t. 1 and 2 words. 2 " 5, 8 and 10' are replaced by "the'. 2... 6, 8, 10, 12 and 13;.................................................................................................................... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." Bio-waste is biodegradable waste from parks and gardens, food and kitchen waste from households, offices, restaurants, wholesale trade, chairs, public catering establishments and retail outlets, as well as similar waste from food industry enterprises. (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." The waste of bituminous materials is: (a) mixed waste or separately collected waste from households, including paper and paperboard, glass, metals, plastic, biowaste, wood, textiles, packaging, waste from electrical and electronic equipment, waste from batteries and accumulators, as well as large-scale waste, including mattresses and furniture; (b) mixed waste or separately collected waste from other sources where such waste is similar in nature and composition to household waste. Domestic waste does not include waste from the production, agriculture, forestry, fisheries, septic pits and sewerage system and treatment of waste water, including sludges from waste water treatment that have ceased to be used motor vehicles or construction and demolition waste. This definition is without prejudice to the allocation of waste management responsibilities between public and private entities. (c) point 10 is amended as follows: ..10. It is a recovery activity where appropriate non-hazardous waste is used for recycling purposes in excavated areas or for engineering purposes in the landscape unit. Waste used for pouring replace non-waste materials, suitable for the above mentioned purposes and limited to the quantity necessary to achieve these objectives. (d) point 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. The use of materials is any use activity except energy use and processing in materials that are used as fuels or other means of obtaining energy. It also includes preparation for re-use, recycling and refilling. (e) c. point 28 (c) is replaced by the word "dangerous'; (f) c. 33 is finally a comma and added to that. by means of distance communication in accordance with art. 49, para. 1 of the Consumer Protection Act, for contracts concluded at a distance. (g) point 35 is amended as follows: It's 35. The manufacturer's extended liability scheme is a set of measures taken to ensure that product manufacturers bear financial responsibility or financial and operational responsibility for the management of waste as a stage of the life cycle of the product after it has been converted into (h) c. 46 after the word "suspicious use' the word "suspicious use' shall be added (including sorting) '; (i) create t. 49 s 51: ..49. Non-hazardous waste is waste that does not fall within the scope of this paragraph. 12. 50. The waste from construction and demolition is waste generated as a result of construction and demolition activities. 51. The food waste is all food according to art. 2 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety which have become waste. 2. In § 2 are created t. 14 and 15: It's 14 years old. Directive (EU) 2018/851 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste (OJ L 150/109, 14 June 2018) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 15. Directive (EU) 2018/850 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 1999/31/EC on the disposal of waste (OJ L 150/100 of 14 June 2018) .?.......................................................................................................... 3. In § 3, para. 2: (a) To be created t. 1a: 1a. Notification of the criteria under art. 4, para. 2 except for the criteria laid down by an act of the European Commission; (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." Notification of the criteria under art. 5, para. 2 in cases where no European Union-level criteria are defined to be applied to that purpose; c) create t. 6a "6e": 6a. electronic reporting of data on the implementation of the objectives under art. 31, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 32 for each calendar year within 18 months of the end of the reporting year for which the data have been collected in a format defined by an act of the European Commission; 6b. electronic reporting of data on the implementation of art. 51, para. 4 t. 1 and 2 for each year within 18 months of the end of the reporting year for which the data have been collected in a format defined by an act of the European Commission; 6c. reporting by electronic means of data relating to data for each calendar year on mineral or synthetic lubricants or industrial oils placed on the market and on separately collected and treated spent oils, as required by the ordinance under art. 13, para. 1 for each year within 18 months from the end of the reporting year for which the data have been collected in a format defined by an act of the European Commission; Six years. the submission of a report to the Commission; 6a, 6b and 6c for quality check and report on the keeping of public registers under art. 45, para. 1, the reporting and provision of information in accordance with art. 44, including detailed information on waste exported outside the European Union in accordance with the requirements of art. 31, para. 8 as well as the percentage of average losses, where applicable; 6e. electronic reporting of data on the quantities of food waste generated in the form set out in Decision European Commission (d) shall be established. 8. It's 8 o'clock. the submission of the report under art. 30, para. 7 by 31 December 2021 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The transitional and final provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 15: a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2? 7: . (2) The objectives of art. 31, para. 1, t. 3 for the preparation for reuse and recycling of household waste shall be achieved in stages and after 31 December 2020 shall increase by 1 per cent each year as follows: 1. 31 December 2021 - - 2. 31 December 2022 "22%'; 3. 31 December 2023 - 53%; 4. 31 December 2024 - - 5. 31 December 2025 .. 55%. (3) The Minister of Environment and Water may postpone the achievement of the objective under art. 31, para. 1, t. 3 to 2040 and the minimum level of compliance shall be reduced to 50 per cent for 2025, 55 per cent for 2030 and 60 per cent for 2035. (4) In the cases under para. 3 The Minister of Environment and Water shall notify the European Commission within the following deadlines: by 31 December 2022, by 31 December 2027 and by 31 December 2032 respectively, applying an implementation plan containing at least the following: 1. evaluation of past, present and forecast recycling rates, disposal and other types of treatment of municipal waste and the flows from which they consist; 2. evaluation of the implementation of the National Waste Management Plan and the programme to prevent the formation of waste under art. 49 and 50; 3. the reasons why it is considered that the Republic of Bulgaria cannot achieve the objective established in art. 31, para. 1, t. 3, and an assessment of the extension of the period necessary to achieve this objective; 4. the measures necessary to achieve the objectives under art. 31, para. 1, t. 3 within the extended period, including appropriate economic instruments and other measures to provide incentives for the implementation of the waste management hierarchy under art. 6, para. 1; 5. schedule for the implementation of the measures under point 5. 4 including debtors for their implementation and an assessment of their individual contribution to the achievement of the objectives applicable in the event of an extension; 6. information on the financing of waste management in accordance with the principle of................................................................................................................... 7. measures to improve the quality of the data, where appropriate, with a view to better planning and monitoring the implementation of the plan. (5) The objectives of art. 31, para. 1, t. 4 to reduce the amount of municipal waste deposited shall be applied as follows: 1. until 31 December 2025 at least up to 50 percent of their total weight; 2. until 31 December 2030 At least 30 percent of their total weight. (6) The Minister of Environment and Water may postpone the achievement of the objective under art. 31, para. 1, t. 4 to 2040 and the maximum permitted amount of municipal waste deposited up to 2035 shall be increased to 25 percent of the total amount of municipal waste generated (by weight). (7) In the cases under para. 6 The Minister of Environment and Water shall notify the European Commission by 31 December 2033 at the latest, applying an implementation plan containing at least the following: 1. evaluation of past, present and forecast recycling rates, disposal and other types of treatment of municipal waste and the flows from which they consist; 2. evaluation of the implementation of waste management plans and programmes to prevent waste generation in accordance with art. 49 and 50; 3. the reasons why it is not considered that the respective objective referred to in art. 31, para. 1, t. 4 within the time limit set and an assessment of the additional period necessary to achieve that objective; 4. the measures necessary to achieve the objectives set out in art. 31, para. 1, t. 4 including appropriate economic instruments and other measures to provide incentives for the implementation of the waste hierarchy under art. 6, para. 1; 5. a timetable for the implementation of the measures set out in point 5. 4, designation of the authority competent for their implementation and assessment of their individual contribution to the achievement of the objectives applicable in the event of an extension; 6. information on the financing of waste management in accordance with the principle of................................................................................................................... 7. measures to improve data quality, where appropriate, with a view to better planning and monitoring implementation in the field of waste management. 2. Paragraph 17a is inserted: sevena. Article 45, para. 1, t. Art. 12, Art. 82, para. 1, t. Art. 2, Art. Art. 84a. 85 does not apply to footwear and second-hand textiles. 3. Paragraph 21 shall be repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43 which shall become § 46. The Commission proposes to establish a name The Commission proposes to establish § 47: ss ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s. (1) Recovery organisations and the persons referred to in art. 14, para. 1, perform their duties individually, received permission under art. 81, para. 1 until the entry into force of this law, by 3 June 2022 they shall bring their activities into conformity with it and submit an application under art. 90, para. 2 amending the authorisation together with an updated programme under art. 53, para. 1. The competent authority shall examine the applications submitted and the updated programme in accordance with the procedure and within the time limits set out in Section III of Chapter Five. (2) Where no application under para. 1, authorisations which have not expired until 3 June 2022 shall remain valid until 31 December 2022 and the implementation of the 2022 targets shall be demonstrated in the current order. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 48. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Climate Change limitation (promise, SG No. ...), art. 22, para. 2, p. 1 the words "up to 5 per cent" shall be replaced by "up to 25 per cent." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 21, § 36, § 39 and § 43, which shall enter into force on 1 June 2021. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u163	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission, the editorial amendments to the texts of the importer, the texts of the importer, the proposals for new paragraphs with a text under the Commission Report, as well as the Commission's proposals for the creation of a Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW OF ATMOSFER AIR. Importer is the national representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The report from the Environment and Water Committee will introduce us to Mrs. Vasileva. You have the floor, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act No 154-01-8, submitted by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2021, adopted in the first vote on 10 February 2021. The amendment and supplement of the Air Cleansing Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: (5) The mayors of municipalities may assign the implementation of the activities under para. 3 to officials authorised by them. (6) In the exercise of control under para. 3, including compliance with the measures, prohibitions and restrictions adopted and/or imposed under art. 28a, mayors of municipalities or officials authorised by them may use automated technical means or systems and/or other technical means of control and are entitled to access data from the relevant registers led by the Ministry of Interior and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. Under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28a the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 after the words "create" the input shall be added; (b) c. 3 the words spatial vehicles shall be replaced by motor vehicles and/or by certain environmental groups of motor vehicles within the territory of the municipality concerned and/or in low emission zones of harmful substances established and introduced. 2. In para. 2 after the word "Forbidden." "Taxi" is added. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The measures under para. 1 may be included in the programmes under Art. 1. 27, para. 1 in the operational plans referred to in Article 1. 30 and/or in a regulation of the municipal council, subject to the provisions of this law and its implementing regulations. 4. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. (4) By the Decree under para. 3 The municipal councils shall determine the terms and conditions for implementing the measures under para. 1 and for: 1. establishment of areas with low emissions of harmful substances, scope, limits, time frame and conditions for introduction; 2. entry and movement of motor vehicles into the low emission areas of harmful substances; 3. limiting the use of certain types of fuels or heating appliances, including within the limits of low emission zones established and introduced; 4. carrying out controls on compliance with measures adopted and/or imposed, prohibitions and restrictions, including through the use of automated technical means or systems, and the imposition of fines and property penalties in the detection of infringements. (5) The measures under para. 1, t. 3 shall not apply to motor vehicles with special driving mode and to motor vehicles designed to carry out public passenger transport. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: (2) Person who violates the measures, prohibitions and restrictions adopted and/or imposed under art. 28a is punished with a fine of 50 to 500 BGN, respectively with a penalty of 200 to 1000 BGN. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes the creation of a name "Concluding provisions" with § 4 and 5: "Concluding provisions' ............................................ In the Waste Management Act (prom., SG No. (c) Paragraph 3 of the Additional Provisions shall be inserted in para. 3: By 31 May, the Executive Director of the National Statistical Institute shall collect and provide the Minister of Environment and Water with data on the quantities of food waste generated, which shall be reported electronically in the format determined by a decision of the European Commission. § 5. The law shall enter into force as of 1 January 2022, with the exception of § 4, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-18.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication on 19 February 2021. 1. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. 2. Interior Minister Hristo Terziyski will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the MPs Evdokia Asenova and Anna Slavova. 5. Health Minister Kostadin Angelov will answer five questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Desislav Taskov [[two questions]] ; Rumen Georgiev and Ivan Ibrishimov; Anna Slavova and Evdokia Asenova; and Veska Nencheva and Valentina Naydenova. 6. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Stefan Burgev [[two questions]] . 7. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer three questions from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov; and Zhelyo Boychev. [[two questions]] 8. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to four questions with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; Rumen Georgiev; Svetla Bachvarova and Violeta Jelev; and Dimitar Stoyanov; - Justice Minister Desislava Ahladova of a question by the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions with written answer from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov to two questions from the MPs Erjan Ebatin and Sevim Ali; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dessislava Taneva will not participate. Next regular plenary sitting on 19 February 2021 at 9:00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
