ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, in connection with the calling of the extraordinary sitting by me, I will read you the order and the agenda: I call an extraordinary meeting of the Forty-sixth National Assembly on 17 August 2021, Tuesday, at 10:00, on the following agenda: 1. Hearing of the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov on the actions taken to establish the persons who exceeded their powers, imposed penalties and the measures taken to prevent such events in connection with the published footage of police violence against protesters on 10 July 2020 in front of the building of the Council of Ministers (importers of Iva Miteva, Viktoria Vasileva and Hristo Ivanov) and on the information submitted and shown in the Temporary Commission for investigation of facts and circumstances in the use of tear gas, the use of force and assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens concerning the exercise of police violence and the use of assistance by officials of the Ministry of Interior against demonstrators citizens (importer Nikolay Hadzhigenov). 2. Draft decision to submit a report by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers Hristo Ivanov, Victoria Vasileva, Nikolay Hadzhigenov and Atanas Zafirov. 3. Draft declaration on the police violence by officials against protesters in the period July "September 2020." Importers. "Iva Miteva," Nikolay Hadjigenov, Victoria Vasileva, Atanas Zafirov and Hristo Ivanov. Mr. Hadjigenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose to turn on BNT 1 cameras for two reasons. First of all, today's sitting is an unprecedented act, and this time these are not just words from the stands. It's a fact! Next, the Bulgarian national television channel 1 decided that there are ethical rules "The only television in the whole world that has ethical rules that do not allow the broadcast of footage of police violence. Obviously, specific ethical rules apply to BNT, which is why I am proposing to turn on the cameras on BNT 1. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Is that a reverse offer, Mr. Hamid? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, let us put to the vote and include the microphones of the Bulgarian National Radio Program Mr. Hadjigenov missed the radio, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u5	Yes, Mr. Hamid, I would have. I put to the vote the proposal to include BNT cameras and a direct transmission on BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u6	Yeah. 200 MPs voted: for 199, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. My fellow Members, I have taken the liberty of addressing some of the young people who have participated in the protests and who have been subjected to this police violence. At the moment on the balcony are Evgeni Marchev, Joro Georgiev and Tsvetelina Tsvetkova, so these young people... [[They are also loudly applauding from IHN, BSP for Bulgaria and DPS, DB and IBGN.]] I hope the debate is thorough, the hearing goes as it should in a parliamentary republic and these young people can look us in the eye. Thank you. Let's start with: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS BUSKO RASHKOV FOR THE PRESENT ACTIONS FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF THE PERSONS THAT PASSED THE RIGHTS, THE INSTALLATIONS AND THE OTHER MEASURES FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCES OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE POLICE ASSESSORS OF THE PEOPLE OF JULY 10, 2020 TO THE BUILDING OF THE MINISTER'S COUNCIL. You have the floor on behalf of the importers to present the questions. You're welcome to present the questions at the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in the summer of last year thousands of Bulgarians went out into the streets of Bulgaria to take advantage of their legal right to protest. The new thing in these protests was that for the first time, people did not protest high electricity prices or their low incomes. They protested and went out into the street to seek justice. They asked for two very simple things: the resignation of Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev and the power outage of the drawers with bars and bundles. The people had finally realized that their poverty and hopelessness were rooted right there in the drawers and in the umbrella over these drawers. The anger of the people of these depraved practices was sincere and therefore they were stubborn in their constant presence and their demands. We were there every night in the square. We saw everything, so to speak, in the front row. We saw how it started, how it turned out and what happened. We saw uniformed officers checking us out at the entrances to the square, and at the same time, people were moving among us, equipped with various means of provoking tension and conflict. These were people who came to the square with preliminary instructions on what and how it should happen. Someone knew this ember needed a little wind to burn, and they took advantage of it. The question is who and why? Who is interested in provoking protesters to get into clashes with the police? We know the answer, but it is more important that this answer comes from the Bulgarian institutions, called on to protect the legal order and democracy. The footage that came out a few days ago is not new. Amateur footage of the violence taken with phones came out that same night on July 10th, and we didn't even need them because we saw them with our own eyes. We saw how, without any provocation, several young people were dragged to the columns of the Council of Ministers and became the scapegoat of a group of outrageous policemen, for whom the uniform is clearly just a cover, but not a debt. I say a group of cops because we definitely don't want to put all the cops under the same denominator. This group of policemen this evening took away the dignity of hundreds of their colleagues who faithfully and dignifiedly defended the honor of their profession. Many of them and I talked in the squares. Many of them sympathized and shared that their children were among us. They warned us about what to be careful and what to do if we noticed something wrong. They were part of the protest. That's why we want to know who organized this provocation that was meant to make us protesting lumpens, paid provocators, self-forgotten idiots who wanted to break the state? A provocation that sought to bring a nation against the police to conceal the shamelessness of power from the crimes committed by that same authority against its own people. There are people dressed in power who organized the defeat on 2 September 2020. Today we ask who are these people? There are senior police officers and executives who gave inadequate orders, who instead of mastering the crises, deepened and ignited them. Were these people prepared professionally, were they forced, were they deceived? These are some of the questions we're looking for today. We want to know why forces and means have been used to deal with riots beyond the risk and risks of the specific operational environment? We want to know who issued the warrants for the use of tear gas, which gassed even the paramedic called in to help a faint person? Who ordered people to be chased and beaten down the small streets around the square long after the crowd was scattered? We also want to know who slept and put in the square agitators of football teams armed with cocktails "Molotov", pavements, bombs and the like? We want to know who are the employees who were kicking down the defenseless unarmed and tied young people to the ground? Who's the employee who took the liberty of sealing a picture of himself with the innocent life of a young girl? The only fault these people had was that they were young, educated and miles away for their homeland. That's why they were in the square. In order to wash the shame of our foreheads as a nation, this time we must reach to the end and the guilty will be revealed and punished, otherwise only the fragile democracy will be punished, which we repeatedly put to the test, as if we are asking ourselves: what else can happen and how much more can we bear? Today we must find these answers, ladies and gentlemen, because tomorrow our people may ask us other questions, and if we do not answer them again, he will simply stop asking us and proceed to action. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Mr. Hadjigenov, please come in for the second hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister of Service, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Tsveti, Joro, Yevgeny! Most of you think we should read political speeches here. Maybe you're right! Perhaps here the tribune is different from the one that was in the square, or the one we had before the one we didn't really have where we found the opportunity to express what we think and feel and each of us find the way to fight the dictatorship because there are no illusions! The film, which was able to bring out and show the Commission the other day, showed the terrifying facts that the management of the Borisov regime has no analogue in the European Union.. a terrifying dictatorship, fighting with funds they use during war, as they did in Iraq, in Syria, in Afghanistan. That's right! They pile up a bunch of kids who dared to know their civil rights and fight for their freedom. Unarmed servicemen from a foreign country! No! You've piled up your own citizens! And you know, before we get to the point, these aren't the usual victims of police violence! They didn't just survive. They won! [[Applause from IBBNI.]] It was they who brought down Borisov's dictatorship. That's them! Yes, they survived the beating under the columns, survived the tear gas, the torture, they managed the detention, they fought in the court, the court canceled their detention as a lawsuit, every one of those things, and they won! And this is the reason why they are here now so that you can see them and know that never the dictatorship, by any means of the Ministry of Interior, not Ivan Geshev, cannot defeat the ordinary citizen who gathered forces within himself to face the power! I would like to make it clear and clear that this is not just the usual police violence, which we somehow got used to for 12 years of GERB management. No! This reached its peak last year on July 10 and September 2nd.............................................. beatings........................................... And not the perpetrators, the direct perpetrators, the ones with the batons, the ones with the jesters, including the blonde lady in uniform who didn't shy away from kicking a man over the head repeatedly! Yes, they will bear their responsibility, but the real culprits are up. We pass through the chiefs of the SDVR or the relevant police services, the interior ministers and reach the then staff of the Council of Ministers, and personally to Boyko Borisov. Because none of us have the illusion that ordinary militiamen have made such a decision on their own. Yeah, it's hypothetically possible there are 55,000 sadists in uniform, but I don't believe it. What I'm convinced of is that they've been following orders. We've seen this many times over the years. It's just that you've reached your height now. You know, it was done for a single purpose, not to save the crest from tarnishing it with tomatoes and eggs, no. This was done for a single purpose, namely to preserve the power of the dictator at all costs, so that he could have our freedom, to have our hearts, to have everything. Mr. Minister, your questions are clear. The public expects finally an interior minister to answer all these questions, not just that, which colleague Vasileva listed. All the questions: who, why, how and why did we get here, Minister? Why? Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Mr. Minister, you have a total of 20 minutes to inform the National Assembly about the issues at the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u11	Dear Madam President, honourable Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable victims of police violence, young people! Very difficult questions have been asked by the parliament today. I would like to emphasise in advance, and some of the MPs have paid attention, we should not put a sign of equality between the dozen police officers, on the occasion of the actions we are going to be talking about today, we will be discussing. Most of the Bulgarian policemen do their job conscientiously and we rely on them to have the whole society in order to have security for all of us. But, of course, we shouldn't be indifferent when we come across something like this that we've all already seen and that pushes us away, disgusts us, and yet it turns out that no one has taken any measures, or if they've taken any measures, they're just to say, we've taken an attitude. And in a little while, I hope I can explain what these measures were expressed against the background of what we all saw and summer, and now at the end of last week. Regarding the 10th of July. Three inspections have been carried out in the Sofia Directorate of Interior for the actions we already know. Notice, the service, which and whose employees we observe in a sort of horror movie, is self-checking the activities of its employees. She's checking herself out! As it became clear a month and a half ago in connection with the wiretap, again last year that the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria is checking itself out! There's no one to check it out, and she can bring what she wants to us. This is what happened with these three checks that were taken in the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs on the occasion of those events that were taken with the phones by the people. And when we heard that by watching the protesters what was happening behind the columns, a voice most pronounced and freezingly said, "Kill him, kill him, kill him!" In this case, it is no coincidence that the protesters were dragged as.. I do not know as what, behind the column. And it comes to my mind to tell you that there is a modern word used in Bulgaria, and what should we say here? There they probably counted that this camera even if it works, which is right across from this column of the Council of Ministers, will not work, or even work, there is no one to submit this information, which is the big mistake in order to protect themselves from liability. This camera was working. This camera was filmed on the same day exactly what was happening there, behind the column. This recording was stored in the National Security Service and on 17 July 2020, which is exactly one week after the incident, now, notice, it was requested by the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs and received by the NSO in the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs, meaning everything was known back then. And since I've recently read that someone has been hiding these materials. Somebody! It's almost now that it's likely that people like me have been hiding these materials for a year. Your colleague here from the Chamber made a statement these days, let me not mention his name, this recording was in the Ministry of Interior, in one of his units and should, who was a minister, say whether the recording was hidden or not hidden. It's not for us who've been two or three months to say that. But it doesn't matter. The important thing is that we already know what was going on back there, behind the columns. Violence has obviously been used, and disproportionately, as someone is trying to prove that the police have exceeded their powers a little bit. No, they're not a little out of line, but their behavior will be cautious in speech, bordering on crime. Such inhuman treatment of some young people, you all see, resents everyone. And I would like to congratulate the President of the Bulgarian Parliament now that he reacted both emotionally and politically and statesmanically, calling this extraordinary meeting, to consider this case, as there have never been such cases in our country before. [[Applause IHN and IBBNI.]] We see on the footage that police officers as numbers exceed those who lie down not as people on the ground. There are some who don't even move. One of the injured youths, as far as I read the information in this regard, has lost consciousness. Loss of consciousness for fellow lawyers is clear what it means. This is a condition temporarily dangerous to life, qualified in the Penal Code, in art. 129 as average bodily harm. And if this is true, if this is established with forensic expertise, where is the administrative punishment, where is the penalty under the Penal Code being asked in a purely legal sense? At the same time, four of them were identified by the verification or self-check they performed in the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs. One of the heads of the department, whom they have imposed punishment, has already been informed by the press, for two years now that they have been deprived of the right to raise, one of the same punishments per year, and the other two who have been reprimanded. This is the effect of disciplinary checks and sanctions they have chosen to impose on them. Nothing more! However, one of them obviously enjoys the trust of our Attorney General and at the beginning of the year has been transferred to the Bureau of Defense with the Attorney General. Probably the D.A., seeing from the footage how this guy's handling the fights at the Sofia Square, he wanted that particular person to guard him at the Bureau of Defense. To stress the fat to date, or, more precisely, to be more precise, until yesterday, we have no data against any of the police officers being attracted to criminal liability. If such an action has been taken by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, then by virtue of art. 149 of the Ministry of Interior Act should have been informed by the Interior Minister at that time, or, if this is done now, the Interior Minister in my person. There's no such thing. And the most interesting one, perhaps, all of a sudden, after this footage has appeared in public, this video, the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office is seizing itself! She didn't know anything so far, she was seizing herself, and even as far as I heard, yesterday they announced, or on Sunday, that they had attracted several police officers as defendants, which I have not been informed about either. In order for the prosecution to self-examine, we all have to assume that she didn't know about the case behind the columns. At the same time, honourable MPs, the file on police actions behind the columns are provided to the Department of Homeland Security. I stress that this Directorate is directly subordinate to the Minister of the Interior. Therefore, these materials must come from the Sofia Directorate, to pass through the Minister of Interior and he must entrust the inspection to the Department of Homeland Security. That is why I exclude the possibility that the Interior Minister at that time did not know about this footage. What did this directorate do? She ran a background check and sent the materials to the District Attorney's office. And now, of course, the question arises: what did the prosecution do when inside these materials was the disk with these footage? What do you think she did? She didn't do anything, of course! I tried hard because yesterday there was very little time, but I asked my colleagues to check, they checked on a publicly accessible website where the file was terminated by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. The paperwork, not the criminal case. So far, we don't have any evidence that the prosecution has ever filed criminal proceedings against the police. And the prosecutor who did this is called, I had a name here somewhere... By the way, by the time I find her, I'll tell you she's a member of the European Public Prosecutor's Office now after this case. Maybe there's some connection, I can't say that, but she's already there. In addition, she thanked the employees of the Department of Homeland Security for the perfect work done, that is, she has no claim to this service. They collected all the necessary data in connection with the beatings, provided her with the materials, and she did a wonderful job. She suspended production because she didn't see in these materials that there was evidence of a crime. I hope I'm wrong about her earning her seat as a delegated prosecutor to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. But whatever. Let's go. I'll find the name.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u12	When you find him, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u13	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u14	When you find him, you'll let us know.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u15	Yeah, yeah. It's called Kirilova, I think, but we'll find... No lawsuits have been filed against some of those officers that we all see what they're doing. However, cases against the victims, however paradoxical, against the citizens who have protested peacefully and were dragged behind the columns, there is one such or more, but I found out about one that continues to be in production, it has not ended for more than a year. And you wonder why? We can only assume they can't find evidence. That is why it is in the style of the current prosecutor's office in our country. This case is not in a hurry, just to forget the case, and after another month, when the public interest falls and no one cares what happened, it can also end it and so on and so forth. Then they carried out checks on the journalist Dimitar Kenarov, who they also tried to bring to the police, to hide what they could as a factology, even though with the naked eye still in the media, in which the case was published, everyone could see what injuries he had on the body, on the face and so on; despite the fact that in this case there was a corresponding medical certificate presented; despite the fact that he began to judge the Ministry of Interior for what they had done to him. In addition, the Ministry of Interior in this case has tried to interfere with the normal course of the civil process in which journalist Kenarov has requested compensation for his injuries. When I became a minister, we immediately withdrew one of the requests, which was made by a representative of the Ministry of Interior to check Kenarov's property situation. Can you imagine?! What direct link is there between the bodily damage caused by the police and its property status, which was to be verified by the NRA in this particular case?! From the bat, then check it out, because some bats ate Kenarov. Nikolay Doichinov, photo reporter, agency "France Press." Here the case is almost identical: violence, camera breaking and movement to police stations. And who's to blame in the end?! That, for example, who was on duty and hadn't properly drawn up the documents for a citizen taken to the police station. I mean, as far as the citizen is concerned, there's been bodily damage, and it doesn't really matter to the police, but because there's got to be someone who can be punished, we're gonna punish the duty officer who didn't have any papers drawn up. And so on these, recent cases I've informed you. There are such minor penalties and we at this stage for two or three days when we worked on this case after the President of Parliament called this extraordinary meeting and provided a point for my hearing, we worked a little bit more. We have reached the conclusion that these conclusions are not final, I will tell you why they are not definitive, that the checks are superficial, have not been taken into full account all the documents that have taken place in the process have not been identified all the employees involved in the beating. We don't have to prove that, we all saw that the policemen who are quite active behind the column are not four, but three times more. Since then, these officers have not been established. So from here on out, we need to figure this out. Thirdly, doubts arise as to the objectivity in determining the type and severity of the penalties. A reprimand! Punishment is punishment. One of them has been punished with a more severe punishment....off the right to a promotion for two years. Can you imagine the insolence he has appealed to this punishment in the Supreme Administrative Court? The Supreme Administrative Court has confirmed the punishment. What kind of consciousness is that?! So, he's conscious that he can beat a man in the street wearing a uniform, of course, and no one can punish him?! And the question is, how, where does this self-esteem come from?! In any case, not by us, by someone else. And who else was giving carte blanche to do?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u16	Time, Minister. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We begin with the questions from the parliamentary groups. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Rashkov, as a participant in a large number of protests last summer and after listening carefully to your speech, unfortunately, in me the emotion is taking over reason at this time and I hope this is the case for everyone in this House, because we are people above all. Listening carefully to your report, and you have answered a huge number of questions, namely questions related to whether a real check has been done in the Ministry of Interior system. The answer is: no. Questions related to whether the prosecution has initiated criminal proceedings on this issue against police officers are not the answer. Since you have shared with us, and we know very well the names and some of the faces of these young people who were beaten that night and the following basically, I can testify to you that 90% of these people were not involved in any provocations. My question to you is the following one question and one question: Are you ready as a minister and given the situation that you can continue to carry out this position, to carry out a real verification to identify all police officers who have participated in this brutal beating against Bulgarian citizens? The second question: Minister Rashkov, I think it is not right to show only the faces of the bits. Let civil society get acquainted with the faces of the bullies, as we have brought out the faces of the beaten youth, let society be the main judge and I advise you to make public the faces of the bullies. [[Applause from ICN, DB, IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Vassilev. Here you are, Minister, for your answer you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u19	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I think it's clear from what I've said so far that we've decided to complete this inspection. So by yesterday's date, I issued an order under which such a clearing group was formed. It is composed of representatives of different services, including the Directorate of Homeland Security, Inspectorate and others. I am convinced, especially after the change of the director of the Sofia Directorate and the appointment of another person who was not there at that time at work, we will be able to identify not only all participants in this disgraceful act, which was carried out on July 10th, but also to reconsider the penalties that have been imposed, because, firstly, as I have already emphasised, it does not take into account the gravity of the act committed by the Ministry of Interior in relation to disciplinary penalties. That is, there is no correlation between the high public danger they have brought these young people to a state that borders on their lives. It's not a disciplinary violation at all, it's an element of crime. On this issue the prosecution has remained for more than one year debtor to the Bulgarian society. She's kept her mouth shut so far and she's fooled us into thinking there's nothing she can do. It is no coincidence that I will recall something from 11 July 2020: The Prosecutor's Office stands behind the official actions of the Ministry of Interior against the paid campaign of the Skull and other oligarchs. I thank all the policemen who protect the citizens. - Guess who first said that! [[Applause.]] I mean, knowing what's done, we stimulate. A moment ago I asked the rhetorical question: would these policemen have such self-esteem just like that, or draw from somewhere such energy of evil, I would say, cutting us up in the face of the world, of course, not just scandalizing our society. Such a statement made, unfortunately, a former Interior Minister for bTV then, saying that violence has no end in the matter. I know it's the easiest thing to do, but one must have professional honor, dignity, and when something like this happens, be uncompromising. Otherwise, the system is not guaranteed for the recurrence of such atrocities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a question from GERB-SDS, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I address you with great concern and concern because what has happened is reprehensible and unacceptable. We strongly condemn any form of violence against Bulgarian citizens. In this regard, I would like to tell you that the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS supports the proposed declaration for today. I believe that we, as a society, must find a way and make sure that such acts do not repeat themselves. It is in this regard that my question is, and it is this: I think, firstly, that the factual situation must be clearly clarified and it must be clear not only who is guilty and responsible, but also what happened afterwards in order not to allow such events. I have a question for you, Minister. I would like you to answer me clearly and briefly: the broadcasts that have surrounded the media over the past few days and have been broadcast in the Commission to the National Assembly, have they been used as evidence to the disciplinary proceedings on which administrative penalties have been imposed? Were the same ones used in court? I'm gonna have to ask you to give me a yes or no answer. For me, the answer to this question is key to uncovering the secret of this, has anyone hidden whom he was hiding, what he was hiding, what really happened and what requires an exposing of such a topic, which is infinitely worrying and infinitely unpleasant to the Bulgarian society?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u22	Time, Mrs. Kirova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u23	Sorry, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u24	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u25	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Were the broadcast records used for disciplinary proceedings? There are dozens of records. Which exactly are used in disciplinary proceedings at the moment I can't tell you. They're also used by cameras where the images are blurry. Initially, what we have been able to understand now is that the experts that have been used are again from the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs. And perhaps it is quite a coincidence that they came up with an expert conclusion that the frame was unclear, which is why they cannot direct us to the specific police officers who participated in the beating. In other words, different videos have been used, and whether they have used all these records on the disciplinaryly attracted persons who have been sent by the National Security Service, this is now subject to clarification. Repeat. Since Mr. Hadjigenov also made sure that there were accumulated huge volume of disks with I don't know what memory, which takes a lot of time to be explored. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u26	Just one question. At the same time, were they used in a court of law, that was part of your question? These records cannot be used by the court because, first of all, no pre-trial proceedings have been initiated against police officers, such there is no known cause. The D.A.'s office, if they failed to tell you, announced yesterday that she had self-conceived, initiated proceedings, and attracted police officers as defendants. Therefore, these cases as prosecutorial material did not enter a hearing, so the question is simply incorrect. Thank you. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, as one of the participants in the protests and of the materials that came into the public space, we witnessed the presence of people wearing uniforms very close to the uniforms of police officers. My question to you is: were there any companies employed to assist in the security of the protest and to help it at least in the department led by you? If the answer is no, do you have information in other departments to hire such companies? As a question: has the Bulgarian state paid to these companies and what is the legal basis for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u29	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Such information exists in space, but we have not yet come to its clarification. I stress once again, as the inspection that begins at the Ministry of Interior has been appointed by my order with yesterday's date. Otherwise, as the people's representative has just asked, we also have such information, but we have no evidence of it. So at the moment, at this stage, I cannot answer the question whether there was or was not, although many involved in the protest claim that there were such persons who were dressed in clothes or uniforms that resemble, are close to those with whom the Bulgarian policemen are dressed. There's talk of corresponding signs. We have one case where police officers were found to have put some badges on their coats that made it look like they were from another unit. Turns out these are officers from the Burgas police who were brought here to help guard the protests. They're said to have been punished. However, please do not ask me to be able to answer all your questions, as we are at the very beginning. Yesterday was the Security Council with the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Minister, honourable young people, victims of this police violence, honourable listeners and spectators! Everyone here has demonstrated their participation in the protests and this is delightful because many people have had the opportunity to see with their eyes part of this footage. However, I will say things that I have seen not only as a passive observer, but as one of the victims of police violence, because on the other date with such strong police violence, I was one of the gassed, kicked, strangled, illegally arrested, for which there was a decision of the Bulgarian court, and held until the last twenty-four hours of edification. This also happened to my colleagues from the political leadership of the party that I represent. Perhaps by order, because one of them, a highly respected scientist, was detained not on the side of the protests, but on the other side to his office in the National Museum of Natural History. Some of them were also subjected to serious violence, with the scars of even one of my colleagues still standing. In fact, the problem is serious and it is systemic and we have to say this because many people are trying to focus on the actions of several four, eight, twelve police officers, but the problem is serious and there are over 50 cases that have been decided in the European Court of Human Rights that Bulgaria is acting improperly in terms of arrests and in terms of exceeding the police's...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u33	Your time, Mr. Sandov, please ask the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u34	There was also a call to, yes, to European parties for the immediate termination of these police and political arrests. My question, Mr. Rashkov, to you is: was it investigated for similar cases on September 2nd because there were over 120 arrests, and whether political responsibility is considered rather criminal responsibility, and for those who are above these police officers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u35	Thank you. I will call on the MPs, when they make obstructions to their colleagues, that they exceed the time, to respect it, too. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Yeah, it's September 2nd. So far, what can I say is that it was over last year? Not now. Now we start working on this period after 2 September. Then, after 2 September, in connection with similar cases, which have just been exposed here, were carried out in the Directorate General of the National Police. One complaint, I mentioned already, is by Dimitar Kenarov to the Sofia Public Prosecutor's Office and Krasimir Kanev, Chairman of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee. Here is now part of the answer to the question the signal was addressed to the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Ivan Geshev and Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, this signal. It is clear from these documents that on 4 November 2020, by order of the Director of the Sofia Directorate of Interior, a check was initiated whether there was a disciplinary violation of these two cases. During the verification the employees who carried out the detention of Mr. Kenarov were not identified. They have been found, as I have already had occasion to point out, only inaccuracies, shortcomings in relation to the documents drawn up in its detention, that is to say, something insignificant has been found compared to the damage caused to it. They are exquisitely exquisite by the Police Department records from the sector. They are provided with a lot of files, not to mention such details, but the review of these videos has established a bad resolution, or a low rather, poor quality without the date and time. In addition, contact with Sofia Municipality has been established, but there are no records provided under the pretext that they are kept for a month. The inspection has ended with a finding that the evidence of violence against Mr. Kenarov is not confirmed. Otherwise, we all saw them in the newspapers, and in other media, of course, only the Ministry of Interior can't identify there or there is no evidence of such violence on this person. For these documentaries, I would say violations, in the Fifth Regional Administration of the Ministry of Interior, the operational officer has been disciplined with a reprimand for a period of six months. That's how this check ends. In other words, the violation that has been found and the punishment that has been imposed is not related to the violence that has been committed. With regard to the case at the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office at the signal of Krasimir Kanev The materials were sent to the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office of jurisdiction. They always make no conclusions, they send to the prosecution of jurisdiction. And in this case begins a transfer of the file and responsibility as if the individual services in the Ministry of Interior are playing table tennis. Some blame the Department of Gendarmerie, the Department of Gendarmerie, another office to say the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs, and transfer the file to infinity and finally the result is zero. Since we have identified the movement of the materials from these checks, we are tasked with checking whether the then Minister of Interior forwarded the materials to the SDVR and, if not, on what grounds? I'm saying this... I don't know if I have much time left, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u37	It's gone, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u38	If it's expired, let's not break the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u39	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u40	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Rashkov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My colleagues and I from the Department of Rights and Freedoms also observed this footage from July 10, 2020. This is a terrifying footage for us. In recent days, it has been suggested that only the Movement for Rights and Freedoms did not respond to these images. I remind you that we were not only reacting at the time, but condemning these acts. It is difficult to explain such processes logically and reasonably. They show a lack of statehood, a lack of clear vision, a lack of ideas for the development of democracy. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are opposed when the Constitution and the laws of the country are violated. Today we are discussing police and police arbitrariness during protests. And what happens during a campaign, Minister? The minister himself stressed that more than 10 200 cases against citizens were formed. On what grounds were searches carried out on private property, office searches, party activists' cars?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u41	There's no connection. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u42	This has nothing to do with the hearing, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u43	Isn't that a police arbitrariness today? The DPS has been very sensitive on the subject of the protection of democracy since the revival process. Thirty years our mission is to be guardians of the integrity of the country, of peace, of stability, of the security of democracy! DPS is a guarantor of the rights and freedoms of all Bulgarian citizens! This video and today's National Assembly meeting should not be a cause for hatred and aggression against the police as a law enforcement body. This would be a wrong step, but a bigger mistake would be an unpunished action to serve as an example of another unpunished action. It's personal responsibility. Not all policemen are goons, but the unpunished crime and volition degrad the system as well as the state. Any violence has its specific perpetrators and guarantors, which should be personally held accountable, including in the 2021 elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u44	Your time, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u45	The question is: how did the recordings appear only now; is the NSO responsible for the video surveillance of the Council of Ministers, where are the footage from, and why didn't they provide these footage; where is the NSO at the hearing; who is the principal of the NSO? Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u46	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see how perhaps we should finish the topic starting to shift and point elsewhere. But I will, of course, answer the question I am being asked. This question doesn't bother me because, first of all, we need to know the matter and then we need to ask the question. What does it mean to ask me now: what happens to 10 200 files against citizens? Who and when said they had 10,200 files against citizens? Nobody! And he cannot say that because under 10 200 cases, there are written protocols in a single copy concerning Bulgarian citizens, for whom the relevant Ministry of the Interior has reported that they are preparing for a criminal vote to assist in some way, but these are not case files, nor are they criminal cases. We are wasting plenary time simply explaining simple things and filling my hearing with side issues. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u48	To the specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u49	Look, I heard your question pretty well. Don't yell at me from a place, please! When you guys were talking, I didn't yell like that. As far as the National Security Service is concerned. I don't need to say who she's subordinate to, but I very precisely pointed out when the video was requested and by whom. Do you want me to say it again? The video was requested on the 7th, it seems to me July, or pardon somewhere on the... [[Reply.]] That's right, on July 17th, and it was received around July 20th, and I have the exact data not to be petty, and the videos of the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs are being sent. It's not the National Security Service's job to investigate, it's not that kind of organ. When they turned to her: give these records, she provided them immediately. So go ahead and forget it! Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u51	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The most shocking part of the video taken and shown by the Hadjigenov Commission is the footage showing the behavior of one of the police officers, shooting for more than 10 minutes, a girl who has been dragged and pushed, and has torn clothes, with handcuffs, in front of the eyes of which a girl is beaten and hit other protesters. That makes him a cop with his private phone?! A truly startling behavior that each of us as a person, as a parent, can't help but condemn. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is: on what grounds does a police officer pull out his private phone and film abusing protesters? Is this part of the deployment plan; is this regulated; is there such a regulation; is there any instructions; is there any order to film the abuse of protesters? Moreover, it was a practice for police officers to take out their personal phones and film events from the protests. In the same way were police officers in the police department, where we and fellow lawyers were protecting the detainees. For hours, we didn't get access, and at the same time, the police and the detention rooms, and in the front room, they were filming, and we were asking, did the police become film studios? After all, some of the cops had body cameras. They didn't have identification numbers, which is mandatory to be recognized, but they did have body cameras. And I ask: these personal phone records, who checks them, where are they stored? These body cam footage, who checks them, where are they stored? I demand that if they are protected and if this is regulated, they be handed over to the Commission, headed by Nikolai Hadjigenov, in order to continue...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u52	The weather, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u53	...explaining the outrage and police violence during the protests.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u54	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u55	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, yes, this is one shot that is outrageous no less than the other actions that police officers have done there. The filming of the girl with a torn blouse and the gentle attitude of the policeman towards her, photographing the upper part of her body. It is a disgrace to the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs, as it was disgraceful and that a woman who was seen there act as her colleagues do, that is, with violent actions and so on. But I think it's a lot uglier here because he's already talking about some kind of perversion. Pervert! Otherwise, he's probably putting these in his personal records. There's no such thing by law foreseen. Where photographs, video recordings, recordings, etc. are necessary, this is done by law, including when these actions are carried out in secret, under special means of intelligence. There's a very strict regulation. That's why I'm saying that the photos that we saw and the ones that the policeman is taking calmly probably, considering this young woman as his property, there is no legal framework to fit this action into. To this, however, by the employees performing the inspection, the Disciplinary Commission, no one has paid attention and therefore the penalties are simply symbolic.... just to have them. It's what you told me about filming in front of the police department. This is a violation of the Constitution itself, as no one can be photographed, observed and so on without its consent or explicit disagreement under the basic law. This is also overstepping not only the powers of the police officer, but, of course, is linked as a consequence to a violation of fundamental constitutional rights. From there, the answer to where they are stored will be repeated, probably in their personal archives. I don't know what this cop does when he gets that girl's picture back.! But I want to remind you of something. On this issue, the then Minister of Interior in TV answered on your question, and he said so: the minister is adamant that it has not been established by the Commission, listen now: pictures of the detainees have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u56	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. We move on to the first question in the second part of the hearing. There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u57	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, dear young people who have suffered from police violence! I have a few related questions. First of all, I'd like to say that it's not just on this date that police brutality is being exercised. On 2 September, I was on the street of the Ministry of Interior when police officers were attacking a young boy who was walking down the street with his backpack without doing anything and closed it for several hours in a truck to attack him in order to manipulate him into admitting one or another thing he didn't do. In this regard, because I have witnessed this thing, I would like to ask you the following: does the Ministry of Interior Act allow external forces to be used in protests; if yes, which companies were used in these protests; who hired these companies; whose ministerial orders are assigned these companies to participate during the protests; who issued the order for the pepper spray by the Ministry of Interior? Please name specific names of ministers. Are these ministers sitting in the room we're in right now? My next question is: have police officers who arrested citizens during the arrests been legitimized because on September 2nd, I was chased by policemen...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u58	Your time, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u59	I'm done. ...who tried to arrest me without legitimizing themselves? Please respond and indicate specific names of ministers. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u60	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u61	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I believe that in a sense I have addressed these issues which I am now receiving from you, both for external forces and for persons who have been dressed in clothes resembling those of the police, and so on. It is even said that some young, healthy, agile, sports youth have been walking there among the protesters and have acted, and not only at the protests, but also at a political event of GERB, where a journalist from "Free Europe" suffered with her phone. So obviously such forces have been used and, of course, this will not be advertised in any way. Whether these powers came from the Delta Guard or from the IPON, I can't tell you today, it's Tuesday, since yesterday one day has passed. I hope that this will also become clear in the course of the inspection. And I can tell you that the more time passes, the more people gain confidence and trust, the increased confidence in the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and seek contact with us to clarify with them what happened last year. For the pepper spray, yeah, I know a lot of people hurt by that spray. I can't give you a specific answer right now about this spray, but I hope I can answer it further. Do cops legitimize themselves? Yes, they do. They have to be legitimized. Every Bulgarian citizen who is the subject of police attention, by a police authority, must know who this police body is from, from which office he is, what is his name and so on. Otherwise, everyone who... They must also have relevant signs, perhaps we know all of this, so for the citizen it cannot be a secret which body touches his constitutionally guaranteed freedom of personality and so on. There's no hesitation here. So he who has reached out to you in this way simply does not comply with the law, which he must first observe, as he is watching for compliance with the law in the country and we see him all dressed up on the street, at the intersection and so on and so forth. He should be an example of law enforcement. I have something else, but will I wait if there are other questions, or will there not be, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u62	There will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u64	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I also address young people who are up on the balcony, not as a member of parliament, but as a very ordinary citizen. Accept that I absolutely condemn in every way what has happened to you on my behalf and on behalf of the entire parliamentary group. And our position is categorically that anyone who has exceeded his rights, whether in the particular situation, but whenever he has broken the law, must bear the consequences. That's why it's the law. And that is why we will stand behind both the declaration and all the actions from here on in order to clarify the guilty persons who have clearly already been identified and to assume their responsibility. As regards the question to Mr. Rashkov, Mr. Rashkov, you have very skillfully escaped the answer to Mrs. Kirova's question about whether the recordings we have seen in the past few days have been used as evidence concerning disciplinary proceedings of police officers who appeal to their administrative sanctions and these videos have been used. We know that they were used by the Ministry of Interior as evidence in this process in order to prove in fact the Ministry of Interior imposed sanctions on them. I said, you have been skillfully avoiding it, because you, as an experienced lawyer, know very well that the answer to the question if the answer to the question means that the myth that has been imposed in the past few days, including the Commission on Friday, that almost these records were in some drawers, somewhere were hidden or something like that. So I'm going to ask you now, when you go out on this stand, not to develop any suggestion like that again, but just to answer very simply.................................... or..................................................... Were these videos that we've been watching for the past few days part of disciplinary proceedings by police officers who actually appeal to these disciplinary penalties? Yeah, or not, it's very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u66	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u67	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Once again, I'm asked a question that I've already given an answer to. I just answered that question, and I think I gave it right. I explained that we are talking about several dozen disks here, and I can't tell you at the moment which of these several dozen disks was used in disciplinary proceedings against the specific guilty employee of the Ministry of Interior. Because yes, before you ask me the question, I told you that one of them who was head of the department of these specialized police forces and was there, and he taught them, listen, and you know what he taught them, taught them how long the teacher was fighting, the head of the department who appealed his punishment, because he thinks he can beat the street and no one has the right to punish him. And it was no accident that I paid attention to that self-esteem where it came from. Does it come from the fact that nothing comes out of the checks after that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u68	That's a very good question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u69	That is, those on whom it depends to bring an inspection to the end and who lead the services. How else can self-esteem be gained in this sense? To commit a crime on the street, to hide, to be filmed, and then to seek some excuse for the police. That is the point of this question at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u70	No, it's not that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u71	And I answered that this particular policeman, perhaps in your opinion, had a good name in society, did well in the square, suddenly felt that he could not be punished and appealed to him in the Supreme Administrative Court. Can you tell me which one of these tens of disks he used at the Supreme Administrative Court so I can answer that? Tell me! And the Ministry of Interior, of course, and the prosecution, of course. This is what we are talking about because dozens of disks have been used with immense memory in them. These CDs, Mr. Nenkov, can't be reviewed by us in two days. This is an objectively impossible task. So when we check everything, I'll be able to give you a comprehensive answer. We, Mr. Nenkov, at the Ministry of Interior are not at all to blame for the fact that the ministers last year suffered similar behaviour in Sofia Square. So we're giving answers right now, and they're standing across from me and keeping quiet. So, as you can see, I'm not avoiding the answer, but I'm giving you on the second day, since I ordered an inspection, on the second day, I'm giving you an answer on things that we've established on the weekends so that I can appear here prepared with information. So in terms of whether or not the records are hidden, first, I will return you to the ministers who were before me to come here and they will answer this question. I wasn't the Home Secretary then. And now these CDs we've been looking for among the dozens of CDs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u72	Thank you. [[The National Representative Alexander Nenkov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u73	Madam President, I would ask you, as the leading meeting, to remind the ministers that in the end, the questions must be answered, because for the second time Mr. Rashkov did not answer the question. Either he pretends not to understand, or just, as I just said, he's very cleverly bypassing the answer to the question. Because, Mr. Rashkov, I will turn around, although Madam President, I will violate the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u74	Mr. Nenkov, you've broken it already.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u75	Look, it's a very important question. I claim that these videos were used as evidence by the Ministry of Interior, and there is no way you would not know which videos were used to protect the Ministry of Interior imposed sanctions on police officers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u76	Mr. Nenkov, the Minister explained to you that he will check the case and report it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u77	That's the big question. They weren't in any drawer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u78	Mr. Nenkov, please, you're going out of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u79	I'm sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u81	Now, that's cheeky... [[Calls MP Alexander Nenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u82	From the BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Karimansky, please, no yelling.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u83	Let's not yell at each other. [[Calls MP Lyubomir Karimanski. Members of the National Assembly continue to exchange lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u84	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Immediately after the protests themselves, I asked 11 questions to Minister Terziyski regarding the violence of the protests, the use of aids, the sanctions imposed on whom, what sanctions were imposed and for what violations? I personally didn't get an answer then. Our parliamentary group has asked this question. He didn't get an answer, but he saw the minister's back leaving the room. No answer was received and NGOs and journalists, which is why there are cases filed against the SDVR, there is also a court ruling that proves this. We're talking about a systematic refusal to provide such information. Mr. Minister, we've seen the footage of these events at one angle or another. GERB tried to oppose the violence against protesters of violence against employees of the Ministry of Interior, an old cop act that will not pass because for one and for the other, they are responsible for the other. Mr. Minister, before I ask my question, I would like to draw a single conclusion. You and I, the office and the four parties, have received a clear mandate so that we can change the system so that we can restore the rule of law, so that there is no impunity. Today with this debate, with our questions to you, with our answers we throw a stone into the swamp, but the swamp is there. And if we don't remove this swamp, the just anger of these young people watching us right now will overflow into despair, and we will be remembered equally with the violent. Therefore, my question to you, Minister, is: who and at what level makes the decisions, who is responsible for this systematic and targeted policy of concealing information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u85	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov, yes, this is perhaps the second most important issue that we should put here for the swamp in which we throw it stands there and sprinkles the whole society, and what should we do? Because then, when we leave unpunished one iniquity, it automatically gives birth to another. And it seems to me that there have been many such cases since last year, unfortunately I say this. I'll tell you one of those. The director of the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs then, last year, made a statement, it is very interesting, by the way, because it is related to another process that goes parallel to the mass eavesdropping of protesting people. And he makes a statement in the media that protesters have explosions. I'm opening a clamp. On this basis, almost all requests of the Special Prosecutor's Office to the court contain motive that there is evidence of a crime under art. 95, namely mutiny, armed uprising. Do you understand why this is about an explosion now? A request is made to the Sofia Directorate to answer, if there is such a case, to say who it is, what exactly was found. And silence, of course. After which the question has already been put under the Public Information Access Act and employees from the central services of the Ministry of Interior conclude that this man On this basis, they ask the minister who stands against me to take into account whether or not to initiate disciplinary proceedings against him. What's the answer, you know? It's right here. [[shows document]] . One big no! So, Mr. Bojankov, your question is very accurate, it's in the tens. When we don't take offenses that we see, crimes that have been committed, and so on, we practically stimulate the violation of the law and no one is scared. That's why that guy there who went to work at Geshev's then taught them the teacher taught those younger ones there, including that blonde woman, that when they put the handcuffs on them, they shouldn't fight anymore. But they were evidently on the opposite thesis because they continued to throw them even on top of each other, as they once threw in the death camps, during World War II, the corpses on top of each other. That's the kind of footage we've all seen. I associated with that, unfortunately. So the swamp will remain if we stay at that level and don't sanction it. The statement of this Hadjiev, who was then the head of the SDVR, who removed him, of course, for a number of other things, is the reason why the Special Prosecutor's Office, I repeat, ask the Specialized Court to give permissions to eavesdrop on the protesters on this appeal base to a swindling, false, factual environment, such as there was no weapons among the protesters. I didn't notice any documentation showing that. But it's past in the sense that the judge has agreed and practically hundreds have been tapped on such a false basis. So I say, I have said before that the wiretaps at that moment of politicians, of public figures, of citizens, of journalists were illegal precisely for this reason, because they used a false factual basis, qualified arbitrarily as a crime, which is indeed a whiff of 1947. I do not see the people's representative here who made such an association two weeks ago a whiff of 1947 for counter-revolution. Do you understand what this is about? And now in 2020, some live with this consciousness of counterrevolution. And what is counter-revolution? In that peacefully protesting Bulgarian citizens in the center of Sofia want the resignation of Borisov and Geshev. And Geshev, as they also wanted his resignation, tolerates the actions of the Bulgarian policemen who guard his chair as they guard Borisov's chair. That's what counter-revolution was all about, that is, the crime of treason under Chapter One, a crime against...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u87	The weather, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u88	...the security of the republic, you imagine, 2020 [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u89	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u90	Dear young protesters Bulgarians, dear Madam President, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, I have brought you this photo. [[Shows.]] You wanted the faces of the bullies. This is the main organizer, his name is Andon Andonov and at that time he is the head of a sector of specialized police units in the SDVR. You know him, don't you, gentlemen? You were his superiors at the time. In the course of disciplinary proceedings against him it was found that he was the one who ordered peaceful protesters to be extracted and dragged behind the columns of the Council of Ministers. Here you see him not only giving these orders, but with two hands holding the baton with which he beats these children. As it became clear, this man is currently in the Witness Protection Bureau of the Attorney General, but my question is not relevant. The question is this, Mr. Minister: after we see this done by leaders in the SDVR, do you know what the requirements and orders were then given to the leaders of the SDVR responsible for carrying out this operation on 10 July; what orders and instructions were directed to the director, to the deputy in the security activities, to the chief of the special police forces; what were these police officers ordered to carry out in order to lead the Bulgarian police in this way? [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u91	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u92	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! This question is very difficult to give a specific answer because such orders, no matter how much we check, have no illusions that we will find at all. Do you know what caused this? The reason is that they were all very aware of what was being done there, and they would not leave a written trail of what they ordered to do. Absolutely not! If anyone thinks it's a random thing to bring the protesters behind the column, to hide them there, there's a wash for the conduct that borders on a crime. There's the first element that it is. There's a leader, the people's representative mentioned it, deserved an agent of the Bureau for Protection with the Attorney General. He immediately became there a worthy actor, in a higher position, with 800 leva. higher salary, apropos. So don't expect. I am pre-convinced that such documents will not be found in the Ministry of Interior, obviously included the telephone right there on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u93	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u94	Dear Madam President, dear people abused by the police! The DPS once again strongly condemns all forms of police violence and politically motivated violence. This has been the case since the party was established, and it will be, regardless of the circumstances and the suggestion that some people are trying to make. Minister of Service Rashkov, I congratulate you on your catharsis, albeit sporadic. I remind you of your role in the recording: the tanks are better to come and see many witnesses in the case are still alive [[crowd cheers, laughs, lines]] . The DPS has the right to speak on these subjects, because my colleagues are descendants of the gas tanks...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u95	Mr. Hadjigenov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u96	...killed and wounded in the squares. I mention the latter because all attempts by the DPS, the victims of the Ministry of Interior, the totalitarian regime to be compensated, met the opposition of your then colleagues and GERB. I am talking about amendments to the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Mr. Hadjigenov, since you laughed, there are two people in your group who have missed this vote. They've been involved in everyone else, you can cross-reference it. I will also miss your actions, Minister Rashkov, in the last elections, which were also in this category. I am saying this because my question is not about procedural matters that you are well aware of, but of a moral nature. My question is: have NSO employees on duty that night reported these footage to the head of NSO, and have these ugly scenes found a place in his report to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, who is the principal? Please speak with names and do not use any more words like "More Up." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u97	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u98	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to thank the young man from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I can justify it with only one...... by not knowing the facts about:.. Better the tanks come............................... Since lately, I don't know why, I hear these kind of claims from time to time, and I'm fully aware that these people don't know the facts and say things they don't understand. Perhaps I should say, Madam President, two or three sentences in this regard and give some clarity that is documented. The clarity is that in 1990 I was entrusted with the investigation of the line, which the then president of the country Petar Mladenov pronounced. There were seven volumes of a message that was at the BTA at the time. Then the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office responded again in quotes appropriate to the strong of the day. According to this line, the BTA's message saw a crime and formed a procedure which was assigned to me in the respective legal order. You know, because I read Yevgeny Mihailov too, of course, it's good to heroize a man alone a little unworthy, but that's his business. [[Laughter]] The truth is that I have completed this investigation, which is known to the entire prosecution, honourable MP, with the opinion that Petar Mladenov has spoken this reply, that is, I have established by the methods and means of the Law what this person has said. From then on, speculation with this question has not been and cannot be. This is my opinion also adopted by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, so I do not know for what purpose, in what logical connection, you are interfering with the case from 1990 with the case of violence from 2020, which we are dealing with here. As for your other question, I have said much here so far, your actions in the elections. You know what I'll tell you? I am proud of these actions during the elections we have made at the Ministry of Interior. [[(Reply by National Representative Mustafa Karadaye:]] Crimes have not been committed. This is the second time I will say in this House: I appeal to the leaders of the parties here, if they really have reports of crimes committed by the Ministry of Interior officials in connection with the 11 July elections, please hand them over. If you do not trust our ministry, give them to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, which you obviously have more confidence in. [[Applause on the right.]] And then, when a crime has been committed, come from this tribune, I will stand there with my head down, and I will offer you my apologies. But let's stop this speculation, because for the first time in decades, we have managed to eliminate some of the criminal vote. Who is dissatisfied with what the Ministry of Interior has done? Who is the one who is dissatisfied to remove largely the criminal vote based on which elections were won?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u99	Mr. Rashkov, you've strayed from the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u100	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u101	The NSA report. I'm sorry, I wasn't in the interior administration structure last year, I just assumed that there was something very bad going on back there behind the column that this camera that I know was there from the NSA was supposed to be working and had to make a recording. I've said that in public, but it's only now that it's become clear to me that there's a recording, and I, like everyone else, have been watching it and I resented it, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u102	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u103	Did the NSA write a report or didn't write last year? Well, I can't answer that question! How can I answer that?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u104	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u105	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I really suggest that because of the dynamics of the meeting you save the questions related to what happened in the last century, the past century and it looks like the fact that you are holding that Mr. Rashkov is a bad person, for nothing is good and it is a terrible job................................ you don't like him, well, but let's sit in the subject. A moment ago Mrs. Tsoneva from the Democratic Bulgaria showed you a photo. This man's name has been debated before, apparently awarded by Prosecutor General Geshev with a higher salary and prestigious work. Until now, justice seems that way. Because we are listening to frivolous statements about how a recording was deliberately taken out right now so that Tusko Yordanov and I could fight and not have a government. An extremely virtuoso solution, you really should write books. [[Laughter]] For this reason I will offer you something that is not such a frivolous idea, but something that is quoted I will then give it to Minister Rashkov, so that you do not say that we are talking nonsense here in this room. The quote is from the person whose photo Mrs. Tsoneva just showed. This quote is part of the protocol "Sofia," 1 July 2021, it is quick to appeal the punishment, what cannot increase it for two years. [[shows him]] In the Chamber, perhaps I am one of the few who are not lawyers, so that the lawyers listen: "Under the columns of the Council of Ministers there were 5 people, and there was one girl, but they were all in good condition. We asked the girl if she needed anything, she smiled and said she didn't need anything. They were on the ground, sitting down! I didn't see any employees dragging any of the protesters on the ground. They were always led by two officers, held under their arms so they couldn't roll on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u106	Your time, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u107	Minister Rashkov, my question as to the only lawyer I have the right to ask is: do you consider this perjury within the meaning of the law?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u108	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Babikan! Over there, behind the column, we see about ten or twelve people, not five or six. Maybe the number of cops there has changed in time and so on. I do not expect these people to tell the truth, and this is what I share with great regret. Wherever they ask and call them, they will try in every way to escape to clarify the real situation. I can give you something very recent to support what I'm saying. And you noticed a blonde woman there, next to the column, they asked her about the check, and they played her the video, and they asked her, "Do you recognize her anywhere?" and she denied it. Secondly, was there, or was there no perjury, I now guess what you mean by that, but I will run out of answers only with this. 290 of the Penal Code: The person who holds the truth in writing or oral before a court or another proper authority of authority and so on carries out the crime of perjury, punishable by imprisonment for up to 5 years. " - So if, here in this protocol, someone has allowed himself to give facts that do not correspond to the truth and this is established in due order, of course, that he will be responsible for perjury. I can't answer anything else because I know so much about the actual situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u110	Thank you. We move on to the second round of questions from the first part of the hearing. There is such a people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u111	Dear Madam Chairman, Dear Minister Rashkov! It is good that I am speaking after many other MPs have spoken and after we have heard the answers to the questions they have asked you. There is obviously something that I and many others in this room have witnessed that there are atrocities, there are attempts to conceal the truth, there are attempts to manipulate investigations, there is protection from the prosecution of obvious crimes. When we think about what is happening and the damage that has been done, we can safely classify what is happening as state terrorism. So this isn't about 10, 15, 20 beaten people, a hundred people being chased and kicked in the squares, a few thousand people being tapped or one way or another being watched. This is about a systematic crime, like terrorism, a crime that is obviously outside the general structure of the Ministry of Interior. We're probably talking about a mafia structure, and my question is this: we've seen some of the soldiers, but are we going to figure out who the other soldiers were who were doing the crime? Do you intend to investigate and how far you intend to go? Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u112	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Radulov, I can also share this terminology that you use for state terrorism, because from what we have seen in the footage, it is extremely impressive and unacceptable as behavior, such as the actions of state authorities or a public authority from which society expects to watch, protect, protect public order and ensure security in our society. Such people have only one more sentence in this direction, in principle they have no place in the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. So they're crossing a line that's unacceptable. There is no legal norm to justify such behaviour and there is no legal basis to link two circumstances that I have recently read in the media and listen to statements.. there are protesters who have acted against the police, and there is a case in which the police beat several people from the protesters. And now someone starts to weigh, become a judge, and says, "If as protesters treat the police like this, let the police beat them up." There's no such thing in law! I won't! Therefore, the checks have been carried out separately for one check concerning the victims, there is already a defendant, and, as I said at the outset, this case will surely remain unfulfilled and will remain unsolved. And for the police action until yesterday, there wasn't even a pre-trial procedure. From this point of view in the beginning, I said that I share this terminology because not only the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are united here, but to them, so to speak, is taken logically and by virtue of the law and the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, which she is obviously pleased with what has happened and is doing in the same way as the executive authority, if it can hide, to crush a case which has now blown up the Bulgarian society. In this sense, I am extremely concerned. It is no coincidence in the last year in many places that the prosecution, thanks to a political party or coalition, has been turned into a political instrument, as part of the executive power, after the latter affords luxury and despite the Constitution to appoint a chief prosecutor. Therefore, the prime minister can safely say that there is no need for parliamentary immunity. Why? Because he's got a D.A.! For the system of crime, for the mafia structure, for the levels in this mafia structure. I would like to say with great regret that we are yet to start working in this direction, and this mafia structure has occupied huge spaces of our society and in depth, including in some state authorities. So we will need a lot of time and honest and honest footage to work on this line and precisely in this work, which will require a lot of effort and a lot of time, we will be able to establish all the elements of this mafia structure and prove the famous Thank you. [[Applause from IBBNI, ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u114	Thank you. From GERB-SDS? There aren't any. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in view of the distance of time many cases have developed, including in the judicial phase, and my question is related precisely to this: do you have, Mr Minister, evidence of protesters who have medical documents and reported violence against officers of the Ministry of Interior, but the prosecution has brought an accusation to the applicants? Do you also have evidence of perjury, as during the court cases themselves, officers of the Ministry of Interior testified that they were on the night of violence behind the Council of Ministers' columns and there was no violence? Do you have any evidence of violence committed on persons already detained on the territory of the SDVR? [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u116	Mr. Bojankov, you're talking to Mrs. Ninova's map.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u117	Excuse me, Madam President. [[Laughter]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov, is there any evidence of charges against protesters who have suffered from police action or violence and so on? Yeah, there's data like that. There's such data, most unfortunate. These cases have turned the victim into the culprit. It's just a paradox and at the same time insolence, perversion in law enforcement! So there goes a citizen to protest and move with everyone else, chanting and so on, and at some point, as there are such cases, without expecting, without knowing, and some of them have been exported here from this tribune today, they are being picked up, rudely speaking, taken to police stations and, in the meantime, violence has been shown on them, and they do not know what this violence is about in relation to them. And in cases where they are drawn as defendants, the target is very clear: when the victim is accused, the policeman will, of course, be a witness. The construction may be very rude, I apologize for the expression, but it is a fact. And by the way, I shared today about such a case in a district government here in Sofia. He hasn't closed this case yet. I only hinted at the reasons, because of the misdemeanor, there must be actual evidence that this injured person was beaten up, committed hooligan acts, had a rude attitude, disobeyed order, rudely violated public order and so on and so forth.............................................................................. 325 at least. Otherwise, such a production for hooliganism cannot last more than a year. I don't have any other explanation for this. So yes, Mr. Bojankov, there are such cases, unfortunately. I will repeat, of course, in answer to your question: a case where the victim of police violence is attracted as a defendant, there is such a case, and there is no indictee for violence against police protesters, as we see on the staff?! This is the double standard of our prosecutor's office, unfortunately, which has had one supervisor for over a year and a half. This is our prosecutor's office. Of course, it was also the same in the previous term, as the independent Constitutional and Law Prosecutor's Office is practically subordinate to the political power and then, when such a structure is in the state, part of the independent judiciary is no longer an independent judiciary, and the prosecution becomes a dependent part of the political power and performs the orders of the political power. And here is the living example of last year's protests and these examples that I have just given about how one victim becomes an accused, and the policeman is a witness, this is the result of the prosecution's merger with political power. In other words, that dispute, which is being fought in our society, whether the prosecution should remain in the judiciary or be brought out of it, has been resolved in practical terms. The prosecution is in fact merged with the political authority and legally it is in the judiciary, but it is not. And while the prosecution is under this leadership, we may be meeting another time to talk undisturbed about police violence against Bulgarian citizens, including those who have done absolutely no violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u120	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, protesters, representatives of the civil sector, of the Boyets who are upstairs, thank you for coming. Today, when I came to the National Assembly, I hoped I would not see the faces of the two ministers responsible. Yeah, I was really hoping not to see you at the banks, but you're here. Just a moment ago, a colleague of Vassilev from "There is such a people" wanted to see the faces of the bullies. The main faces of the bullies are two "one" is Boyko Borisov, the other is Ivan Geshev. However, the tool they use is that you two are the people who covered up this crime and allowed Bulgarian students to be beaten. You know how these things work, don't you? The police have entered the peaceful protest and taken out who they choose, because these were not ultras, as they were proclaimed, and you are responsible for it. Like you, Mr. Terziyski, you are responsible for what you tried to do there. I sincerely hope that if you had any left, I would say manhood, but we can't talk about manhood here if you have any dignity left, quickly resign as MPs, because I'm ashamed to call you colleagues. [[Applause from DB and IBBNI]] I'm ashamed to enter parliament and see the two people responsible for things we're used to seeing in Iraq and prisons in Iraq being led by my colleagues. I'm sorry about this to all the other MPs. Resign, and this will be the only meaningful thing you've done in the past year, stand before the public...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u122	Your time, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u123	...with your face and you take responsibility for it. Mr. Minister, my question to you is very quick. We understand that the prosecution was quick to reason and my question is: did this happen before or after the Parliamentary Commission started working? This is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u124	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u125	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mirchev, the prosecution has just committed itself to the moment when it became clear what circumstances are hidden in order not to initiate pre-trial proceedings. The D.A.'s office has announced that she's self-conceived, given that these materials were known there. I repeat: the Department of Homeland Security, subordinate to the Minister of Interior, has received the materials it has worked on as much as it needs to, and has sent these materials along with the disk of the District Prosecutor's Office. There the already delegated prosecutor, the well-deserved prosecutor of the European Prosecutor's Office, took over the case and decided immediately and quickly how, by ending the case, that is, they had no pre-trial proceedings. Now they've announced that they've even filed charges, which means they've reacted very quickly these days. I can't tell you if it's Saturday or Sunday, but these days they've reacted, and most likely after...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u126	Were you able to check the name?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u127	Trifonova, I think it's called. I'll take another look. Yes, Trifonova is called our new delegated European prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u128	We're gonna get her!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u129	So that's how our prosecutor works while he can hide, then he picks up the bag and wonders how to get out of the situation. Instead of setting an example of compliance with the law, our prosecution gives a reverse example of failure to comply with the law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u130	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u131	Minister of Service Rashkov, the Ministry of Interior have determined which persons had access or knew about the recording in question during this period, which exceeds a year, and what actions have been taken to them if, by their inaction, they were hiding an undisputed evidence of a crime? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u132	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u133	Dear Madam President, ladies and Members of Parliament! I think I've explained a lot about this, several times even, and just now, answering the previous question, I also explained it. I'll explain again. Yes, the Ministry of Interior has worked on the case, and in particular the Directorate of Homeland Security, directly subordinate to the Minister of Interior. This directorate has completed the inspection, of course, has worked with a CD. I do not know exactly which CD she was working on, but she finally came out with a decision that she has nothing to do and has sent the file to the Delegated Prosecutor in question by the European Prosecutor's Office Trifonova. That's what the Ministry of Interior did. Secondly, in connection with the formal disciplinary proceedings, there were also copies of footage from the same night, from July 10th, and they felt that the conduct of these persons was not worthy of dismissal or surrender to the prosecution, respectively bringing an indictment against them to court. It's all been quiet and quiet. Once again they slap their hands and embrace the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution, and forget about the beaten children in the square behind the columns of the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u134	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u135	Flowers, Jorro, Yevgeny, I'm sorry! Flowers, Jorro, Evgeni, Philip, Lucho, Vladi, Mia, Hrysi, Rally and all our children, excuse us for allowing this 12 years to govern us in this way, and it is therefore the responsibility of our generation today to clean up and add the truth to the tracks so that your time may come. Dear Minister, before me there is a reference from the Ministry of Interior to lawyer Mincho Spasov regarding his inquiry regarding the so-called individual identification numbers. The answer he receives from the SDVR is that here I will quote: The police authorities who carry out their duties in uniform or work clothes carry individual identification numbers only in the performance of tasks directly related to the security of mass events and in the performance of activities under art. 89, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act. It should be noted that police officers have only one number of professionally assigned individual identification numbers. On this date, the employees wore summer uniforms. In view of the temperature differences during that period during the day and evening, the employees were in their summer uniforms, including trousers, shirt or T-shirt, and in the evening hours they had to wear jackets. Let me just say that according to the archive, the temperature at 18.30 on the 10th is 29 degrees, at 20 degrees is 27 degrees, and at 22.30 is 23 degrees. I'm saying this to think: what are the temperature differences that require the wearing of winter clothes and jackets, if this wasn't just for their identification numbers to be gone, was that the real reason why none of us could find out right away, even from non-professional footage, who are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u136	Your time, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u137	Mr. Minister, my question is: what is the current state and what measures have been taken against identification numbers?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u138	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u139	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Each employee must have such an individual identification number and must carry it. I can't tell if, at the time of the protests, they wore them or didn't wear them. They should have such numbers and the citizens they meet and talk to, be able to see them, know them and be able to possibly overwrite the rights to write and mark the numbers. But what and how it happened then, I cannot answer that question. Of course, in the course of this inspection, which I have appointed since yesterday, we will also clarify this question, I assure you of that. This would suggest another fact, perhaps the commitment of some of the Ministry of Interior's employees to carry out actions that deviate from what the law prescribes. Whether these jackets were worn for such a purpose to cover up the numbers or not is also a question of proof. We can only guess here. Of course, at these temperatures, it's logical to assume such a goal, but still... It is true, I have been invited here by you to answer the questions you have asked me, and I have been doing so for a long time now, but why hasn't one of the previous ministers answered that question? Who was then a minister, let him explain how and what it was. Otherwise, I can tell you so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u140	Thank you. Let's move on to the second questions. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u141	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I have the following questions to ask you: how many cases of compensation in connection with the indicated violence are being conducted against the Ministry of Interior? And a more rhetorical question to make it clear: who will pay these benefits if it comes to such decisions of the court? I also have a more general question because I participated in the protests both in 2013 and in 2020 and violence was shown both in 2013 and in 2020: do you know what is common between the protests in 2013 and 2020?! In 2013 do you know who was the head of the SDVR? And in 2020 who was Minister of Interior? In this regard, on my general question, what measures will you take to ensure that this does not happen again? Thank you. [[Applause from IBGNS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This question about cases is very difficult to answer because it is a dynamic process. Besides, we, as you can see, have cases against the victims of police violence. That is, a man is beaten on the street and instead of being helped as a state to protect his rights and legitimate interests, we are making him a defendant and we are seeking criminal liability. That is, to the suffering that this man has suffered, we add more to it. In such a case, this person, as accused, cannot normally seek compensation from the State, because apparently the authorities which have so far clarified in quotes the factual situation have made exactly such a construction. You can't take responsibility from the police officer when we move the blade of the charge against someone else who, by logic, should have suffered from the crime. We have such cases against victims, for example, of hooliganism, but we have no lawsuits against police. Didn't we say today that our Prosecution was very in time to self-sit a year later so that, as the theory says, the facts would fade to such an extent that then, when we called someone to interrogate him, he would tell us: I don't remember, it's been a while. That's what the D.A. did. If we speak more generally, of course, and not so specifically, I know of such a case, which is being conducted by the journalist Dimitar Kenarov, I mentioned about it today. I've even cooperated with whatever I can so that this man can appear in court and defend his rights and legitimate interests. We in these departments, called human rights, law enforcement and so on, are about this, and we are not about terror and beating people up. As far as I am concerned, I repeat, about the principle issue, if there are such cases, the benefits pay them all together, including those children who are beaten up because everyone pays taxes. That's the effect of the whole thing. What measures should be taken? I just said that when we leave one offense unpunished, it automatically gives birth to another. Since this has been done a long time ago, to be able to hit the political opponent, the economic opponent and so on, and we will keep in quotes ours to hit the others so that those who are the guards of ours gain self-confidence of inaccessibility. If we do not take action now, we can expect further the same incidents and the same actions by police officers. Therefore, I think that the first thing that needs to be done from now on is a stricter personnel policy in which to avoid liberalising the behaviour of perpetrators of violations among the Ministry of Interior, to react adequately, not formally, as these disciplinary proceedings have been conducted, which have ended with some symbolic, even already expired as deadlines. So they're in the lead now, and they're not punished at all. This is the right path for me. And something else. Perhaps you should select the footage that apply for a job in this office. The selection is quite downgraded as criteria. Otherwise, yes, there are formal requirements and competitions. It's in the Law, it's written, but then in the practical realization of the competition so that the best, the most knowledgeable, the most capable of our work is lame. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u144	Thank you. From GERB-SDS? I can't see. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u145	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! A simple question, Mr Minister, please explain here to the MPs, perhaps some of them are not aware: what is the subordination in such a situation as we had in the protests, along the hierarchy in the Ministry of Interior, the Head of Sector, the Director of the Sofia Directorate, the Minister of Interior? Who, how and how are plans made? I mean, is everyone in the chain familiar with what's going on down there, and are direct orders from the highest chief to the lowest maybe in the chain, and not directly, about the way in which we should act in such a situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u146	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, as it is known, the Ministry of Interior is a structure which is built precisely on the basis of the principle of subordination of obedience, implementation and so on. Of course the summit is political leadership, but the professional is the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior. He is therefore the Secretary-General because he coordinates the actions of the various services in the Ministry of Interior and especially in such a situation as he had during the summer of last year at this time and until autumn. So in professional terms, things related to such mass events are led by this professional leadership, of course, and by the head of the relevant unit, the respective local structure... in this case here in Sofia, and by the Sofia Directorate of Interior. It would be an illusion if someone thought that a local director of the Regional Directorate of Home Affairs could take full responsibility in such a situation, make single decisions and so on. These are political issues that are being resolved in the square, we all know that. These people go there not to walk, but to express their opinion on the policy led in our country. It is known that in the summer of last year thousands of Bulgarian citizens went to the center of Sofia and the centers of major cities to express their desire to change government, including the chief prosecutor. So from this point of view, since we are talking about political processes and political actions, we cannot exclude from this subordination that exists and political leadership. So if your question, Mr. Ivanov, is: what's the hierarchy, where it goes and so on, I think I've answered enough. You cannot, in such mass events, including, notice, in a period when our prosecution has accepted that there are conditions and prerequisites for the execution of a coup d'état, in carrying out an armed uprising, so that when you had firecrackers in your pockets, you carried explosives. If you do not know, read there now from those SRS that we have sent to the Commission to Mr. Hadjigenov, you will see what strange things we are talking about and at the same time how serious things this is for the state to accuse the protester of participating in an armed uprising in an attempt for a coup. And between them, a little cheering up, don't I have time, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u148	You do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u149	I'll tell you a case. And he's wired and tracked. A man who is mentally ill, stands in one place with a poster against the government, and this man who is criminally irresponsible because of the disease he has, has also been bugged, tracked, and the state has spent money on it, provided the Law excludes similar cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u150	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] : Did Borisov know that he was being tapped?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u151	Please, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u152	Now, you want me to tell you something to convince you 1,000 per 100 that he knew. [[Laughter and applause.]] I've got the fact, I've given it to Mr. Hadjigenov. Well, if one person stood outside the home of the former prime minister with one poster, would the former prime minister know? Well, that's how I shake my head.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u153	Your time, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u155	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u156	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, since we have heard a lot of opinions from the previous management of the Ministry of Interior that there is no excess, there is no police violence, I will start with a folk art, which is slightly adapted to the present day, which says that today's police do not beat, but yesterday's how it beats! And here I would like to ask the following question: "Shoot to kill." I want to ask, Mr. Minister, do you have any idea if this type of aid funds are entering the standard equipment of the police and, if not, is it the responsibility of those employees who allow themselves to bear such funds? And in addition, the other three, who have been sanctioned and punished, do we know their names and what position they currently hold in the Ministry of Interior's system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u157	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to these auxiliary, so-called funds, they are regulated in the Law and can only be as it says in this regulation and its Rules of Implementation. Others can't wear and use. If they carry others, if they cause any harm, they must also bear the appropriate responsibility. When it comes to shooting to kill, if I see him like that, I'll fire him right now. [[Applause from DB, IBGN and IHN.]] Why, if there have been cases like this, and I personally haven't seen, if there have been such cases with such inscriptions to walk the streets and scare people and no one has paid attention, that must say, Mr. Terziyski. I can't tell why they didn't pay attention. It's devastating the prestige of the Ministry to carry the employee there, what is it called, to kill yourself and so on, shoot to kill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u159	The inscription ends without remorse.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u160	Yeah. As for the other three of those who are attracted to disciplinary responsibility, yes, they are known, we have names. One is punished with one year's deprivation of the right to be promoted, and the other two are reprimanded. They're reprimanded. And what do you think, I'm back again, isn't it an incentive when they go somewhere to do mass events like this to each other? What preventative effect can a reprimand have in carrying out such atrocities? Because I can't take it either, and I use strong expressions because that's how I feel. If anyone, as they have done, wishes to raise this man, let them send them there to go to the Attorney General to protect him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u161	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u162	Madam President, honourable Members! Today, we are listening to the Minister of Interior in relation to the actions and measures taken by the office entrusted to him for clarification of employees who have exceeded their powers. Our question to you, Minister, is to explain to us what measures you have taken in relation to the prevention that is needed against the employees of the Ministry of Interior in order to prevent such events from happening again? There was such a question asked to you, we could not get an answer. Do you think there needs to be legislative changes in relation to victims and victims of such peaceful protests to be compensated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What prevention measures have you taken? Well, I've been here two months. I have never had the physical time to take serious measures in this regard before. Although, of course, we, as a leadership of the Ministry of Interior, appreciate the situation in which our employees work, direct them in the setting of the tasks they have to do, and we try to convince them that strict compliance with the law must be respected. At this point, we can do this because, as you know, we are a temporary government, respectively, for very little time running this office and we have done a lot of work, of course, although it seems brazen. I hope my assessment matches yours. Of course, if there is such a prospect for a longer period, we could, and this is what we will do on the particular occasion, of course, we will do a very careful examination of the case, and that is why we have appointed an inspection in this regard. The ideas that our colleagues have been expressing since Sunday are also to take measures to train this group. As much as it sounds like a print or, how can I say, this is necessary for a very simple reason, because constantly the footage spins, comes younger people who do not have the experience, and should be introduced into work, including by learning. So for prevention and not only that, of course, at this stage. What was the second question, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u164	Legislative changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u165	To compensate the victims.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u166	Of course, everyone who suffers from relevant harmful acts is entitled to compensation for the damage caused by our laws. In other words, compensation must be paid by the person causing the damage. Here is the point that an injured person can bring an action in this direction, both in one case, to say criminal, whatever conditions there are now with regard to these victims of the events last year, to bring such an action against both the individual and the Ministry of Interior, and it will always receive its compensation. The question is not, however, about those compensations that can be obtained, and so on, as you would call them, or under the Law on Compensation of Victims of Crime, and so on, the question is that we tolerate the state authorities in which these guilty persons are at work, to pay the damages of the victims of a wrongful act of the employee, and so on, the question is that we tolerate it. I will bring you back or I will give you another example, as we put up with the judicial authorities closing their cases, one part of the decisions that go on a complaint at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, when the European Court of Justice condemns Bulgaria, these claims come to the Council of Ministers and the executive body pays what is due to the victim because someone in the judiciary has not done their job. And here, when we were together with colleague Minister of Justice Stoilov, it seems to me that he also put this issue out of this tribune, which should change soon, because the judiciary is being paid, so to speak, the violations that are taking place in it, and the judiciary is not paying if the executive commits such violations. And at the same time, we're talking about equality of authority, mutual control of the Constitution, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u167	Your time, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u169	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Come on in, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u170	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the hands of any ordinary lawyer, law can and should be a weapon. The next day, after July 10th, I started unofficially checking if there were any records, any reports from the NSO's duty officer and so on. On July 15th, I sent letters, notice, to the interim director of the National Security Service, the Ministry of Interior, the DVR, the Prosecutor's Office, the Armenian pop and who you can think of more. This is precisely why the SVR probably found out about the recordings and demanded them. They got copies, and so did everyone else, and the D.A. got them, and each one of them was having fun in the way he found fit. Notice, the text of my letters was identical to everyone. The reason I asked for the tapes is for the purposes of justice, that's all. In the replies received, including from the head of NSO at the time, it is apparent that these records cannot be provided for the purposes of justice. Two of the cases of the injured children, who are with me, I achieved court certificates. One is of Evgeni Marchev, who sits up on the balcony. On it the present and still to my surprise, head of the National Security Service Emil Tonev responded to the court note, not to Advocate Hadjigenov that the NSO did not only have such a record, they did not have such records. Such a plea, in writing to the court, is a crime against justice!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u171	Your time, Mr. Hadjigenov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, my questions to you are as follows: firstly, have you seen the tape you provided to the Commission on Thursday evening before you submitted it? And question: would you tell me, Mr. Minister, is the Ministry of Interior obliged, after having obtained data for committing a crime, to carry out certain acts of the type of the prosecution, immediate urgent action under the Ministry of Interior Act or if these crimes were committed by officers of the Ministry of Interior, it should be covered up? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u173	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u174	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hadjigenov: Have you seen the recordings? " If I'm honest, I'll tell you that I didn't have time and I haven't seen them. I wanted them, they found them, I got them, a letter here with you. Does the Ministry of Interior have any obligations to notify? 205, para. 1 of the Criminal Procedure Code of the Ministry of Interior, as well as all other state authorities, when they receive evidence of a crime, are obliged to take the necessary measures. Some authorities may not initiate an investigation, but the Ministry of Interior may start in urgent cases if it cannot provide these materials to the prosecution to assess whether or not there is evidence of a crime and if there is one. This is the order, so in any case the Ministry of Interior is the burden of taking the necessary action. You can't put them in your drawer or wherever you want them to be standing there, because in such a way you can come to the conclusion that someone is covering up a crime, since they're not giving a signal, of a material from which a reasonable person, by reading, will conclude that a crime has most likely been committed here. So both in theory and in practice, and by law, this answer is unambiguous, there can be no other interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to expression of attitude. Each group has a total of 10 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u176	Dear colleagues, it has become clear that to a large extent this National Assembly has done part of the prosecution's work because it has found evidence of crimes that we all knew, and it is good to say some things in a straight text, however rude and rude it sounds. We saw clear evidence that there are sadists in the Bulgarian police, because these 10 people or somewhere behind the columns are sadists! This means that there is no filter in the Bulgarian police when appointing people. There were sociopaths who didn't feel empathy over them in the Ministry of Interior a year ago. Empathy is to feel sympathy for the suffering and joys of another person. You can't know that something like this has happened and that you don't feel disgust or feel sympathy for beaten children! Two of these sociopaths are in this room, the former interior ministers. There's no other explanation! I do not understand how it is possible that in the parliamentary group of GERB you are not ashamed that they are still among you! You as a party can remove them! If they had any moral resistance, they'd be gone by themselves. At the top of the state stood one still standing, Prosecutor General Geshev, who is harmful not only to the prosecutor's office but also to statehood. The other is former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, for whom, after these footage we watched because of these beatings that happened because of him, I think there is no term that can determine the disgust that a person can feel towards him. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u177	Thank you. GERB-SDS-Should you come in?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I'm peaceful today, as usual. It became clear from the discussion that last year during the peaceful protests, there was a time when the protests had become remorseful, which provoked law enforcement officers to exceed their powers and use force in a way that we cannot approve... [[Relations from MP Maria Kapon.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u179	Please, Mrs. Capon!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u180	...which we don't approve of, and no one, of course, a normal person can approve. It became clear that the organization of work in the Ministry of Interior is such that the Minister of Interior, whoever he was, was in the time of Mr Oresharski, whether during the time of the GERB government, did not issue direct orders. They have never been heard of, neither written, nor lips, nor whatever, ordering people to be beaten in the way that we viewed the footage! It is really about the individual actions of police officers, who, as we have seen, have been punished probably, as part of the Chamber believes, too softly. Perhaps they should have been punished more severely, but for the next, if, God forbid, there are, such cases, this will be a lesson for us both, and for the Ministry of Interior, a point that the justice that we talked about here a few days ago, colleagues, must be rewarded quickly and be effective so that society can be calm. It also became clear that today's hearing or today's discussion is just another attempt or another case in which a bucket should be poured on the political party GERB, to exchange lines that are minimizing the dialogue. We are all talking about the need for dialogue, but this dialogue is constantly being mined and obviously... [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u181	Please, Mr. Chenchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u182	...as I have said several times, this is the goal of not being able to achieve dialogue. It has also become clear that there is a need for legislative changes in order for such cases to be avoided in the future, or to be adequately punished if, God forbid, they happen again. These changes will not be made in this National Assembly because there is no will to make a government here and there is the will to dissolve parliament once again and to move towards a new political crisis. I say again, and I'm done with it, we're sorry! GERB regrets what we saw as footage! We regret these policemen not because our members, not because our sympathizers, not because leading factors in GERB or in the government have any, whatever, attitude towards what has been done. However, this, my fellow Members, that we continue to address Parliament with such discussions, from which political dividends will not be deducted for the next elections, I promise you this thing, replaces the debate on the essential issues that you know very well. Migrants are coming, and I don't know if we're going to welcome them to Eagle Bridge with concerts where we're going to sing patriotic songs to them or a responsible government that is able to protect the country and the people. We are put to an ultimatum requirement to vote or to discuss and vote on an update of the budget very quickly, after which Parliament will be disbanded.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u183	Mr. Cholakov, you have the right to express your attitude to the Minister's answers!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u184	I am referring to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u185	What you're saying is deviating from what you're expressing and from what you're hearing. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u186	Allow me to finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u187	Go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u188	We will need a responsible government that, including ruling, as you believe, should be managed by the Ministry of Interior, we will need a responsible government that will protect citizens from internal and external threats. Last week on another occasion I had the opportunity to express that the violence in this country should stop and now I repeat it: the violence in this country must stop the violence of Bulgarians on Bulgarians, and for this all must make an effort and those who have exercised it, those four policemen, and those who provoked them, because last year this was provoked violence and we all know it very well. As far as the political part of my speech, Madam President, is concerned...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u189	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u190	Thank you for your attention. [[Leaving the stands. Noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u191	You have five more minutes. I didn't stop you. You have 10 minutes. [[Reply from the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov.]] Mr. Hadjigenov, I beg you very much, let everyone express their attitude! He's got a right to rule! Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u192	We will need a government that will stop the violence in Bulgaria, we will need a government that will stop the violence that may eventually be exercised on the streets of Sofia and in large cities in the future. Because what is being asked, colleagues, is very scary and you all know it. We will need diplomacy, we do not need money, we need diplomacy, we need people who will negotiate with the Republic of Turkey, Germany, Austria and Hungary, Croatia and Serbia. And please, please, state who these people are among you and choose them in the coming weeks, because the caretaker government does not have such a mandate, it has no powers and no one talks to the caretaker government about matters that are to be discussed in Europe and Bulgaria in particular. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u193	Mr. Cholakov, as far as I know, under the Constitution the second term should come to you. "BSP for Bulgaria" "Please come in."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u194	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! For several hours we have been listening to different details from an extremely ugly moment of our existence. Young people are beaten for defending their rights to the Constitution because they have gone out to seek their rights, which are laid down in the basic law of the state. But this is a small detail of all that arose in the years of the 12 in which the head of the state was Mr. Boyko Metodiev Borisov and Political Party GERB. This was the result of a discontent with all these distortions of public processes that occurred in the country for 12 years. This isn't an isolated case! Today we are looking at a recording that we have seen, extremely disgusting and humiliating for those who have been subjected to violence, but humiliating for us too, because in our country, in the country where we are MPs, this has happened. And our job is to keep things like this from happening from now on. But who can guarantee that?! Who can guarantee that? Who can get up here and say: I am the guarantor of this thing that, for example, after four months, in five months we will not bring back all these people who are currently not even concerned about it? I really do not understand why colleagues from GERB do not take radical measures in this direction! If the two Members do not wish to take personal treatment of the matter, at least from their group to reprimand them to stand up, to apologize to these people, if not otherwise. But this, again, is one small detail of the entire puzzle that we are trying to solve and find a way out of this situation. But obviously, it's going to be hard to find, colleagues. I do not see because political shortsightedness and political selfishness lead us in a direction that has no way out, unfortunately. Because legislative measures are needed in this direction. Because if we don't remove one, we can't eliminate the other. Yes, you say: I have seen everything here, from the Minister's speeches I have understood that there is an extremely strict hierarchy, subordination, coordination at all levels. A criminal omerta between the Ministry of Interior, which existed, and the prosecution. And when you push one foot, the other one stands. He's not moving. It's obvious he's not moving. Why did this tape have to come out so the D.A. could move? But what is the guarantee tomorrow, when this parliament falls apart, in a few days, weeks and so on, because it is obvious that nothing will happen here, that nothing will happen, and that there will be poisonous roots for the future, that this dark past will not be reunited, will not be strengthened, there will be no new manifestations in the future? And these people will not get the satisfaction they are looking for here today, because we have shown one side of things We didn't show how we're gonna stop this thing from happening in the future. Yes, the responsibility will weigh on the Minister of Service Rashkov, who may continue to work, but what from there? It'll subtract, subtract, work, subtract for another week or two. And that's it. Colleagues, things are much more serious because we have looked at these issues in depth for years. There are a number of cases in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, where it is said that in Bulgaria things are wrong because the abuser investigates the abuser. Because the prosecution, which should investigate such crimes, its acts are not subject to judicial review, colleagues, because that is the law. And it won't have any effect. There's gonna be some empty talk today, these kids are gonna go home and they're gonna wonder why they were here, and what did we tell them today? Yes, we have shown: you were beaten, you were abused because you had to keep a 12-year regime that has grown at all levels. We heard that thing. One... because they had sent him, promoted him somewhere else. Yes, but how do we guarantee here with you our actions, that there will be no consequences that it will not happen in the future again? Again I say: even one excuse you didn't hear here, in this room from you, colleagues, and you should have. Because they were protecting you, the ones who were beating. Because these people protested against you, not against me, against a government. They were looking for their rights that were taken from them, obviously. What we will do, what we will contribute and how we will get out here, now and then in a week, in two, in three, with what eyes we will look at these people and what we will say to them: yes, we did this thing for you. True, we got the data, we got the facts, but Geshev stands and our political shortsightedness, your, all of you, we say to him: yes, Mr. Geshev, perfect, live your life is wonderful! And everyone around him. Why? Because some narrow political goals are being pursued, at least for me and for most Bulgarian citizens. That's the bitter truth, colleagues. And they really carry their responsibility. I hope that if there is any sense, conscience in the prosecution and in those prosecutors who work, they will finish their work and bring those guilty to justice. At least there's a little moral satisfaction in front of those people we've seen on the tapes, because they're not the only ones in this country. This thing was in Sofia, but in Varna, in Burgas, Plovdiv all over the protests there was violence against the protesters. It wasn't just those guys. How many other footage are there that we haven't seen yet? That's the tip of the iceberg! Because the whole country had gone up against a wicked government, aha, to put an end to it, and we opened the door a little bit again. That's the truth. And we have to see it, because this thing isn't one small part of all of what we're talking about right now here and moving out. We're blaming ourselves, we're looking for the personal handler: who with a mask, who without a mask, who with a sign, who without a sign, but behind them are other people, find out who gave them orders that gave them the opportunity to do so. I did not ask the Minister for a reason: what is coordination, the subordination in the Ministry? There's someone sitting behind everyone. Plan-deployment Someone has approved, signed, reported to the above and so on. And all to keep one line, one regime that's been built for 12 years. We have explained it here from this tribune repeatedly, thousands of times we have heard it, and we will continue to talk about it until the mind finally prevails and it is understood that there are Bulgarian citizens to work for and not for close political party purposes. That's the bitter truth. When we understand this thing, then they will stop these people from feeling wronged, then these people will understand that those who are chosen by them think of those who are choosing them as sovereign. Otherwise, everything will stay here, in a fairy tale today and that's where it will end. The Commission will finish, it will not even work, there will be no report from it, there will be nothing, and we will remain with what we talked about today. I really hope that some sunny day these people get at least the moral satisfaction that someone has taken care of them and someone has been punished, sanctioned for the physical violence that is extremely brutal, terrifying. I never believed that a defenseless man could be crushed in such a way. This only happens in countries that are currently facing the worst violence. Bulgaria is a member of the European Union and NATO. This is not normal for the Bulgarian policeman to do so. But he's being sanctioned. And the worst part is that there is a stain on the Bulgarian police officer, because he is not the Bulgarian police officer we know. There are dozens of Bulgarian, hundreds of Bulgarian police officers who are on the street doing their job conscientiously. The politicization of this system because it was staged. A number of ministers, starting from Tsvetanov, Bachvarova and everyone else, after that, led to these distortions. And there's no will here, colleagues, to finish these trials. It's gonna stay that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u195	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u196	Madam President, honourable Members! Within three hours, what was found in this hearing? First, among those who participated between 12 and 15 people in the atrocity behind the columns, only four have received disciplinary penalties - two reprimands, one will not be promoted in one year, another in two years. However, the one who is the Head of Sector in the Specialized Police Departments was installed immediately after the establishment of his misdeed, where he was at the Witness Protection Bureau at Geshev. This is his Praetorian Guard. Is that where this bashibozok is meeting? Is that where you hide these people that you claim won't be promoted for the next two years? They were promoted?! That's a higher status. As far as I can tell, at least £800. Up he gets Andon Andonov. The young people who were beaten behind the columns left. They've listened to us long enough. I do not know, I think they are not satisfied at all with what this room gives, does and whether it creates any hope that the next time Bulgarians rise up to protest for their rights, this will not happen. I very much hope that this is no longer possible. But these atrocities have also been covered up, this has also been established today, absolutely unambiguously by the police, and the police have been covered up by the prosecution, which, notice, one of the most disgusting things we've found today is that she only noticed the recording the other day when he visited social media. Isn't that right, Mr. Cholakov? Then the prosecution saw the atrocities committed behind the columns of the Council of Ministers. It's not absurd, it's not arrogance, it's not insolence. There is no category for the way Geshev treats this atrocity. Therefore, he must present a report on the systemic problems that exist in the use of police violence and overpowering the use of force because of all the cases that Bulgaria has lost in the European Court of Human Rights. Because of all the inaction that all these years in Bulgaria exists, both the Bulgarian police and its representatives, such as those 15 people who, as wolves, jumped on the heads of our children, cannot understand what function they perform, that they protect the society and not the power of Borisov and Geshev, because we are not a Jamahiriya, we are a parliamentary republic and Bulgarian citizens have the sacred right to protest, a protest that was defined as a coup. Are you proud of that, colleagues from GERB? Are you proud that, while you ruled and tens of thousands of Bulgarians went out on the street, including after that, that they were beaten on July 10, three days after the start of the protest, with one main goal: the protest to be broken in its beginning, the courage, the dignity of these young people to be brutally trampled and placed at the feet of your supervisor, who at this time cannot be defined as anything other than as an Asian satrap. Because these bodies, thrown like corpses on top of each other, correctly said the coworkers, perhaps only in Abu Garib can be seen such unseemly atrocity. They were placed in his legs there in the Council of Ministers. And you want us here to believe that Borisov, that you, Mladen Marinov, that you, Hristo Terziyski, that Geshev, have not seen this tape, can lie to us here group?! Is this place full of idiots?! You've seen this tape! You covered up that tape! What kind of heart do you carry, I don't know, I've been wondering all day? Your names have been mentioned here many times and I say them again so that you can use, if you will, a personal explanation procedure The young ones left, listened to us for three hours. They couldn't hear that you regret that your bashibozuk beat them almost to death on July 10th. Go out and say I'm sorry! Throw down your resignations now so that this Parliament can preserve dignity! Let's at least finish this here. [[Extreme applause from ICN, IBBNI and SG.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u197	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The only real thing we can say from this tribune today is to strongly condemn this event, to apologize to all politicians, whether we were in power or not, for police violence, for watching our children not beaten, but treated, for allowing this to happen in European Bulgaria at all. And we of the DPS, who have a particular sensitivity to violence, to policeness, to the brutality of those dressed in power, strongly condemn what has happened. If today it seems to you that we are making historical reviews, including in the distant, and in the nearer past, let us say, from 20 days ago or a month ago, it is not to belittle the tragic experience that we have all seen with shocks, but because police violence, brutality of power in Bulgaria have roots, have scary traditions for decades, not to mention more than decades. Why are we going back to the brutal violence of the revival process? Why are we going back to the brutal violence of the communist regime? Why are we going back to all these events? Because a people who haven't read their past, who hasn't analyzed it and hasn't thought it through, no future, has problems with the future. Do you understand that we have problems with the future? We have no problems with our recent past last year, we have problems with the future. Because police violence and police activity have traditions in this country. And that is why we are guilty of all of us who have participated in both political and social life. Did we find the strength after November 10th in a firm way to condemn everything that happened before that, not by words, by law, by judgment, by rehabilitation of all who were maimed or whose life was taken away? Of course we didn't. So, Mr. Babikan, we're going back to the past and we're going back many years more if we don't read these pages. Do you think there was no police outrage and such scenes in 1990? Do you think there wasn't one in 1996? There was, and I was one of the contestants. And I'll tell you where we were beaten, and other people, and so on, because it's inappropriate to talk about ourselves. There was a brutal fight. Ask the old footage of the SDS, here's the chairman of the SDS. Wasn't there some brutal footage in 2013? There was, of course. You had to be on the white bus to see what human life meant. [[Heckling]] Yeah, it wasn't the law enforcement, but that puts another topic.. there will be protests many, in such a world we live in. Can we, as a state, say how we are going to solve the problem of police violence and how are we going to solve the problem of peaceful protest? Where does it end and where does it begin a brutal violation of the law and the civil rights of other citizens? Because we looked at such views also very unpleasant, with a woman with two children. Not a word, not a voice, not a groan on this subject, and that is the subject of our society. Because in the last 30 years the police have been used in this Chamber and in the Bulgarian institutions only for the purpose of political use by all of us when it is profitable, as it is profitable for us and against whom it is beneficial. Always to the detriment of people, always to the detriment of authorities and honest policemen and all those who do not do this but work in these institutions. Is this our responsibility to condemn now the ugly scene, brutal, or dig deeper? We from the DPS offer to dig deeper. And if it seems ridiculous to you, Mr. Minister, that we are talking here about police activity during the last election, it is not because we do not agree to cross the bought vote of the DPS has the greatest interest. We're with those who buy them for 48 months, a whole term, every day. Our organizations are there, we help them. If no one offers them anything, they will vote for us to tell you in a straight text. [[Applause from DPS.]] But justice cannot be restored by illegal means. We will fight the vote bought only by legal means, without police, because we owe it to the people. And if we are for the rule of law, it begins with respect for the Constitution, respect for laws and methods, and all that we do to restore justice and order. [[Heckling]] You want me to introduce you? We'll introduce. We also wanted a committee to have, not because we're so affected, but to stop, colleagues, this. Not everyone comes to power, thinks they can restore order and justice to the edge of the law. No! Only by legal means. Therefore, I believe that we owe a great apology to all Bulgarian citizens who have suffered from police activity over the years, by some brutality of power. We owe, of course, in this particular case a huge apology to these children, to their families and to all those we did not see at the scenes, because I am convinced that there have been other beatings. We also owe an apology to those who suffered from protesters who had no peaceful goals and good intentions, because the state was not in place there. And I, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, apologize to everyone because I believe that all politicians are to blame. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u199	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! [[People's representative Armand Babikian puts police shoes on the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u200	Not that you haven't seen them. Today we had to find out if we were older than them or if they were older than us. I thank Mrs. Iva Miteva for today's extraordinary session of parliament. Thank you to Minister Rashkov, thank you to the Commission, led by Mr. Hadzhigenov, thank the Bulgarian media and some of the political forces for their reaction to this animal beating against the children of Bulgaria. I thank them not as politicians, not as parties, not as media, not even as journalists, but as part of our common public reaction, which we should have when someone proves their own power with violence, when someone tramples freedom with boots, here with those. I know that many will say many tales, tomorrow will be the same. I agree with Mr. Tsonev, he needs to dig deep, we'll reach deep, maybe get to Geshev. I know, but I can't and I don't want it to be the same. We promised at the protest last year that we would go all the way, and we wouldn't let things go to waste, and, thank God, they got out. Because evil is done, we have all seen it, but we will do twice as much evil if we keep quiet and let things pass. In British football, to this day, they kneel before any match to support a cause that black lives matter. I know that some of you who are passionately defending your colleagues today are watching at least football, some of you Real There are no such public reactions in our country. We have the feeling that the terror of the state over one person is his personal problem and that every miracle will pass in three days and so, until it happens to one of us, to one of you. It's about values that need to unite our society, not values in a drawer, not to confuse anyone. We all need to make a decision here what Bulgaria we want, do we think that the life of Bulgarians is a substitute for black people? Do we think our democracy matters? Do we think that our rights as citizens matter, or do we think that those who have to protect our rights have more importance, that those to whom we have given the power to govern us have more importance, that those to whom we have given the right to exercise justice have more importance? It is not just a matter of making outrageous declarations, of course, but of doing the job that we can do as much as we can. We are not a tribunal and we cannot pronounce sentences, so calmly, but we can do our part of the work, and fast, at least the easy part, to have justice in the country. At least to quickly remove the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court, it is not very complicated compared to the other things ahead; to move the Bureau of Defense to the Minister of Justice, it is not too complicated to start our work, at least to start it to protect our values. And our freedom and our children may be the most precious thing we have. We are here to choose whether the police boot of power is higher than the bottle of milk for our babies? We are here to choose whether the police boot of power is higher than the icon you put somewhere at home, whether the police boot of power is higher than your dreams, and above all, is the police boot of power higher than our freedom of citizens? You may not say it here so that the fellow party members don't scold you, but think about it while you watch football while watching your children while you raise money for university while you pray to the icon, because Bulgaria cannot always go back. And I don't mean what we just talked about, Mr. Tsonev, we can't always go back and justify it. We must decide whether we want to move forward at last. Each and every one of us must make this decision personally, not in the Party. Because that other thing, we've already lived it. If we're going back, come on, I'll be back in 1945. Slavimir Genchev, a poet who few know perhaps, in connection with those events in February, writes... I'm not going to read you the whole poem, because you probably don't love it: For ideals, don't raise your voice that there's no one to listen to you, but when the church comes to power, they turn into boots. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u201	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. With this and item one of our agenda today is exhausted. Do you want me to take a break, or should we move on to point two? [[Replys: No!]] Okay. Moving on to point two: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO RECOGNIZE A REPORT FROM THE GRAND PROCURER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Please submit the draft decision. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, importers of this draft decision are in addition to my mercy, Mrs. Victoria Vasileva, Nikolay Hadzhigenov and Atanas Zafirov. I thank the President for drawing up the text. It's an effort, which is common, to finish what we started with the previous point, because the problem isn't just that some policemen broke the rules. The problem is that they did it as an execution of a political order, they did it by guarding a power, including the power of the Attorney General. We therefore offer your attention: Project! DECISION submitting a report by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria shall, by 20 August 2021, submit to the National Assembly a report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities on the enforcement of the law in relation to cases of police violence exercised and the use of assistance by officials against protesters citizens in the period 1 July september 30, 2020, including the actions taken to identify persons who exceeded their powers, the names of the monitoring prosecutors and the reasons for delay of the investigation. Mr. Geshev has already managed to say that this would violate the division of authorities, imagine?! I call on you to vote for this decision, to support it regardless of Mr. Geshev's position. It is a central issue of how the state penal policy is applied, it is a systemic problem. Bulgaria has lost in the European Court of Human Rights over 50 cases for inadequate investigation of police violence. It's a system, colleagues. Thanks to the fact that we have lost over 50 cases, Bulgaria on this topic is under special surveillance by the European Court of Human Rights. Another observation on Bulgaria. Another restriction on our judicial and institutional sovereignty, another shame! If it's claimed to have an investigative secret, but this investigative secret concerns pending investigations until that day. What investigative secret? If it is claimed that there has been an investigative secret, but this investigative secret may be used to actually cover the materials, it may be used as an excuse not to be made available to the National Assembly of the Commission. Who, if not the National Assembly, will check this way of implementing the state penal policy? If it's actually about the prosecution covering these crimes and turning a blind eye to them to serve Geshev's interest because people were protesting against him. Here we are talking about a severe political conflict of interest - Geshev, whose resignation wanted these people, covers the people who would and abused the protesters - do you not find it a problem that there is nowhere else but here in Parliament to be dealt with? I'd like to give Mr. Geshev a consult. There's one way he won't come in and resign! Thank you. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u203	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the presented draft decision to submit a report by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. Vote 167 MPs: for 167, no objection, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. With this and this item on the agenda is exhausted. Moving on to the last item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECLARATION WITH REGARD TO THE SEPTEMBER 2020 POLICE-BASED ENTERTAINMENT I'd like one of the importers to submit the draft declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u204	Thank you, Madam President. DECLARATION in connection with the police violence committed by officials against protesters in the period July "September 2020'. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and having regard to: - the published footage of police violence against protesters citizens in the summer of 2020 outside the building of the Council of Ministers; - that the National Assembly owes protection of the values of democratic society and of the rule of law against any act of arbitrariness DECLARES: 1. Condemned brutal police violence against protesting citizens committed during the protests in the summer of 2020. 2. It defines this as a disgraceful act of inhuman and degrading treatment prohibited by the Constitution and by the international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. 3. Insists on an effective and impartial investigation and on fair punishment for both the perpetrators and their leaders and those responsible for covering up their actions;
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u205	Thank you. You have the floor for speeches on the draft declaration. Members of the National Assembly of the European Union have submitted a Draft Declaration, but since the agenda is predetermined, no additional points or additional projects that you have tabled can be submitted, so your proposal can do so in the process of the debate as an editorial proposal. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u206	Madam President, honourable Members! Since none of the leaders of the institutions responsible for brutal police violence and abuse of protesters, who were here including, did apologize on behalf of the institution, nor do we expect to hear one from the prosecution because of the inaction and frank cover-up of crimes. So I suggest that we add t in the Declaration. 4 which reads, as the previous texts condemn brutal police violence,.. defines this as a disgraceful act of inhuman and degrading treatment, insists on an effective and impartial investigation............................................................................... 4: He apologizes to all the participants in the protests, the victim of police violence.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I allow myself to oppose Mrs. Manolova's offer of apology. I would have taken the floor earlier when Mr. Tsonev was speaking. Politicians like Mrs. Manolova and Mr. Tsonev really owe an apology for what was happening in the squares for what was happening with the beaten protesters because these politicians have determined for the last 25 years the fate of the Bulgarian. Today I have heard extremely many moral and ethical categories in this Chamber, justice I have not heard among them. And the truth is, it was this particular moral category that made people go to the squares, this particular moral category that makes us gather here today, because that justice has not been given. No excuse, Mrs. Manolova, justice must be done. And Bulgarian politicians must understand that long-term political support will be given to the one who takes account of everything that has been happening in our country, including police violence, poverty and the lack of justice that has brought people to the streets. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u209	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. For a second line. I can't see. Mrs. Manolova for the dot? You don't want to. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u210	Madam President, honourable Members! Given the discussion held regarding the Minister's hearing and the need, apart from looking into the past, to make a commitment to change, so that such cases are no longer in our Republic, I propose two new points to the Declaration. First, we urge the Council of Ministers to submit the necessary legislative changes to the National Assembly and adopt the regulations in order to avoid such cases of violence by the Ministry of Interior officials, including the necessary training, a register of training declarations and criminal measures for all employees involved in public-order operations in the country and abroad, as well as to strictly regulate their relations with and control of private security companies. And one more point. The National Assembly will strengthen control of the security sector in line with the best practices of the democratic world for the protection of Bulgarian citizens, including through the Standing Committees. I would like to add that yes, the Ministry of Interior has many things to do, but I think that the Bulgarian Parliament also has something to do, because all these things are also happening because of the reduced control by the National Assembly in the last 12 years. This model, which reduced the role of parliament, reduced the role of the MPs and I would ask a rhetorical question: how many times have there been debate in this House concerning the actions of the security forces, with the actions of the security sector, how many times have MPs visited the Ministry of Interior units to learn how these people are preparing, how these people act, how these people are instructing themselves, how these people analyze their actions so as not to allow such a type of violence that shocked all of Bulgaria? And I would like to introduce the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament that there is one such book in the Library of the National Assembly, which is called the Parliamentary Control of the Security Sector. A manual for parliamentarians. I recommend it to everyone when working on permanent committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u211	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. For lines? Thank you. I can't see. For other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this declaration. We have also submitted our project, but for your reasons, we accept that there is no way it could be on the agenda, so we propose that our project is similar to the project submitted, with the project being discussed at the moment, an editorial amendment, and more precisely: in point. 1, after 2020, add the words as well as the police arbitrariness that took place during the campaign for parliamentary elections for the Forty-sixth National Assembly. There was also a question in Mr. Tsonev's statement that once and for all we need to stop police arbitrariness. The fact is, there was an accident. We wanted a committee to establish these facts, you didn't accept it. We wanted a hearing on the subject, but I think the text is acceptable anyway. Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u213	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. And perhaps in the name to fall in the period of July "September 2020"........................ thank you......................................................................... For other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u214	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, as many of the protesters continue to protest to this day, and we from the group of "Rise up" BG! We were at the protests over 120 days, which included summer, and autumn, that advocated part of the winter of 2020 and 2021, we have an editorial amendment, namely: to drop out in the first sentence the word "Summer" and to remain the protests in 2020................................................................................. And in that regard, I would like to say that those who were at the protests all the time, we were kicked, pushed, sprayed and hit the cops. Here we are, both me and Mrs. Manolova, Mr. Hadjigenov, Mr. Babikan, and the other colleagues, and I do not accept those who suffered the protests on our backs, to receive criticism, insults or any remarks from people who have beaten her for two or three days of protest, it has not been. And if we think the state should apologize for what happened in 2020. Yeah, she should apologize. For as we have heard from the previous sayings, the children have departed, and have not heard an apology. I therefore believe that it is the National Assembly, which is currently composed of people who are representatives of the people, that this apology should be made, and I support the editorial amendment made by Mrs Manolova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u215	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. For other speeches? I can't see. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal made by Maya Manolova to create a point. 4 related to an apology to all participants in the protests. They voted 141 MPs: for 78, against 41, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. We move on to the proposal made by Velizar Shalamanov. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I and some of my fellow Members have failed to vote, and this is why I want a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-17.u217	Thank you. I again put to the vote what Maya Manolova proposed for item four. They voted 142 MPs: 79, against 43, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. We move on to the second proposal made by Mr. Shalamanov. He introduced it to us. Do you want me to read it to you again? [[Heckling]] Yeah. "4." We demand that the Council of Ministers submit the necessary legislative changes to the National Assembly and adopt regulations in order to avoid such cases of violence by officers of the Ministry of Interior, including the necessary training, a register of training declarations and criminal measures for all employees involved in public-order operations in the country and abroad, as well as to strictly regulate their relations and control of private security companies. 5. The National Assembly will strengthen control of the security sector in the best practices of the democratic world for the protection of Bulgarian citizens, including through the Standing Committees. Please, voting mode. Vote 179 MPs: 145 against 6, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next proposal made by Hamid Hamid in the name of the Declaration the words in the period July-September 2020 to drop out, etc. 1 to finally add as well as the police arbitrariness that took place during the campaign for parliamentary elections for the 46th National Assembly. Please, voting mode. Vote 198 MPs: 71, against 117, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We move on to Dimitar Delchev's proposal. 1 the words "summer" shall be dropped. Please, voting mode. They voted 131 MPs: 100 against 8, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. I vote on the whole draft declaration, along with the so-called additions. Vote 191 MPs: for 191, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] This has exhausted today's agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
