ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Good afternoon, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u2	Good afternoon!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u3	I mark you as registered. Please, registration mode. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Registered 122 in the hall plus 1 remote becomes 123. The necessary number for decision-making in this House is 62 MPs. Dear Members of Parliament, I will make two procedural proposals. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: 1. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors' audit for compliance in the conclusion and implementation of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by I propose that it be point five in the Programme for today, 25 February 2021. 2. Second vote on the Special Investment Purpose Companies Bill and on securitisation companies. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 6 January 2021. Adopted in first vote on 3 February 2021. I propose that it be point six of the programme for today February 25th. Please, voting mode. Mrs. Angelkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u4	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u5	Yeah. They voted 120 MPs in the House and one remote " 121" total. They voted 121 MPs: 115 against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Taking into account the additional points already included, I propose that shiftings of other points in the Programme be carried out as follows: First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency with importers Vecdi Rashidov and Toma Bikov, 17 February 2021, I propose to become the seventh in the Programme for today, February 25th. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering with the importing Council of Ministers, 29 December 2020, adopted on the first vote on 20 January 2021, I propose to become point eight of the Programme for today, 25 February 2021. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with the importing Council of Ministers, 18 February 2021, I propose to become the second item in the Programme for Tomorrow, 26 February 2021. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is in connection with the forthcoming vote to carry out a roll call check.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. This time we'll start backwards. Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Todor Baychev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Apostolov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Rumen Petrov Genov- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rosen Malinov Malinov-- here. Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Pavel Savov-- here. Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova (through Internet platform for video conference connection) - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Maria Shtereva Belova- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Apostolov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Ilian Angelov Timchev- here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniel Petkov Yordanov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- here Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- here Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Alexandrov- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here There's a quorum, colleagues. We're continuing the hearing. I put to the vote the proposal I have made to move the other points into the Programme. Mrs. Angelkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u9	Thank you. They voted 143 MPs: for 101, against 9, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. Let's start with: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION ON THE PROCEEDING OF CORRUPTION AND THE DEFINITELY RECOGNITION OF THE PROCEEDING FOR 2020 Importer: Commission for Countering Corruption and Detaining of Illegal Property, 8 February 2021 The first point for today, 25 February 2021. Mr. Yachev, please introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u10	Madam President, honourable Members, I give your attention ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Anti-Corruption Commission and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2020, No 120-00-1, submitted on 8 February 2021 by the Anti-Corruption Commission and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property At its meeting held on 11 February 2021, the Parliamentary Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics examined the Report on the Activity of the KKCONPI for 2020, No 120-00-1 submitted by the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property on 8 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u11	To do the clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u12	I'm sorry, Madam President, I missed a procedure for admission. Colleagues, I am doing a procedure for admission in the hall of the Chairman of KKCONPI Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u13	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 136 MPs: 126, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Tsatsarov to the Chamber. Please continue, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u14	At its meeting held on 11 February 2021, the Parliamentary Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics examined the Report on the activities of the KKCONPI for 2020, submitted under No 120 00 1, by the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property on 8 February 2021. The meeting by KKCONPI was attended by: Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Chairman, Mr. Anton Slavchev, Vice-President, Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova, Mrs. Silvia Kudreeva and Mr. Plamen Yotsov, Members of the Commission. Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov presented the general framework of the KKCONPI Activity Report in 2020, focusing on the organisational and administrative structure of the Commission as well as its international activities. He noted that the report was structured in separate directions in which the Commission had powers to work and gave the floor to its members in portfolios. Mr. Anton Slavchev reported as Head of the Directorates for Countering Corruption and Conflict of Interest. He pointed out that regarding the conflict of interest, the received signals in the Directorate were 242, compared to 2019 when they were 166 and in 2018. .. 119. The decisions adopted by the Commission are 373 for 2020 and their number is higher than the previous years because decisions have been adopted in relation to alerts received for 2019. The decisions with an established conflict of interest are 30, the number being the highest in relation to the three years. The decisions in which no conflict of interest has been established are 92 and the decisions for the termination of proceedings for conflict of interest are 9. The fines imposed in 2020 by established conflicts of interest amount to BGN 610 000, compared to 2019, when they were significantly less The confirmed decisions of the CPCONPI by the Supreme Administrative Court in 2020 are 11 and the annulled decisions by the Court are 5. A total of 491 prosecutorial checks were submitted to the Directorate in 2020 on the grounds of Article 491. 145, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary, under which operational and search and reference events are carried out. On 386 cases, including cases from 2019, the work has been completed and the results have been reported to the relevant prosecutors. 74 cases of corruption crimes have been reported. In 2020, the Directorate received in accordance with competence 810 signals on which specific actions have been carried out, according to the powers of the authorities under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. According to the Department of Corruption and Corruption Prevention, Mr. Yotsov, who is the responsible head of this Directorate, said that in 2020 a total of 79 draft laws were agreed, and in terms of 22 of which were identified indications of corruption risk and 48 proposals were made for editing texts in order to reduce and avoid this corruption risk. Of the total number of proposals made around 65% have been accepted, 18.7% have not been accepted, and 16.7% is still expected information from bill importers. The annual follow-up analysis of the effects of the adopted legislative acts, which have undergone a conciliation procedure, entered into force and acted within not less than 12 months, has also been carried out in 2020. The amendments and additions of 12 active laws are analyzed. A thorough study has been conducted and specific inquiries have been made to the interested parties. For the third consecutive year, an analysis of the compliance of the anti-corruption plans of 35 senior and secondary officers with a budget for 2019. The implementation of the planned measures of 595 anti-corruption was followed by the authorities. The Commission has used various forms of cooperation and interaction with state authorities, local self-government bodies, NGOs, academics and international organisations to carry out the corruption prevention activity. The Public Register Directorate, whose head is Mrs. Sylvia Kandrava, shall carry out the activities of ensuring the publicity of the assets, incomes and interests of the persons holding senior public positions within the scope of art. 6, para. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, including their wives, the persons with whom they are in actual cohabitation on a marital basis, and the minor children. The authority of the Directorate shall also include the carrying out of an inspection and analysis of this property. In 2020, a check was carried out in respect of 21 587 debtors, including related persons. The verification has ended with a Report of non-compliance for more than 2,900 persons. In 2020, the Department of Public Register has processed and verified declarations submitted by 11 461 debtors of different categories. The declarations adopted are published on the Commission's website. A total of 679 persons holding senior public positions have not submitted or submitted their declarations beyond the statutory deadline. For 72 persons, the Commission has already adopted decisions to initiate an inspection under Chapter 10 of the Law. Directorate "Decidation of illegally acquired property" with head of Ms. Antoaneta Tsonkova already third year confirmed good practices in the exchange of information, providing data from both the Department of Public Register and the Directorate of Countering Corruption of the Commission. This is relevant for the quality analysis of the identification and withdrawal of the illegally acquired property and the finding of non-compliance in the checks carried out. During the reporting period, 2488 checks were initiated. Traditionally, these are checks which start at the notice of the Prosecutor's Office, but 113 of them are based on information collected from the Public Register and the Commission has taken a decision and provided the directors with checks for persons within the scope of art. 6 These are senior positions to be held by persons under scrutiny. In total, 235 decisions to initiate proceedings were adopted during the reporting period. The amount of future claims in these proceedings amounts to around 467 million. lv. The assets secured are approximately 219 million. lv. The trend of claims is sustainable and in 2020, they are as strong as in the previous " 255' and the value of the property claimed amounts to approximately 822 million. lv. The claims filed before the three courts in the Republic of Bulgaria are 390, with the claim made by the Commission in favour of the State being 3 billion. The Commission 141,000. lv. During the reporting period a total of 47 decisions of the Bulgarian courts entered into force. On these, 21 claims were fully respected, 17 were partially respected, 9 claims were rejected and 17 were rejected accordingly. The total amount awarded in favour of the State of claims brought by the KPCONPI is 12 million. 172 thousand. 552 BGN, and the dismissed claims are worth 7 million. 426 thousand. BGN 906. In the field of "Taken-up of the illegally acquired property" is also the "Management of the secured property" department. This is an activity related to the efforts of the experts in the conservation of secured property for the period during which this property is secured. The purpose is to preserve both its integrity and its value. In the discussion of the Report took part the MPs: Ivan Valkov, Kristina Sidorova, Milko Nedyalkov, Simeon Naydenov and Boris Yachev. Different questions were raised regarding the results of the Commission's work carried out in 2020. In the course of the discussion, there were issues concerning a change in the methodology for declaring property and interests, optimization of the Commission's territorial structures, including filling the unoccupied states, the Commission's interaction with the other institutions, issues concerning the management of the confiscated property, as well as the need for changes in the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Following the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission, with 6 votes in favour, without the opposition and 2 votes in abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Report on the activities of the Anti-Corruption Commission and on the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property for 2020, No 120/1, submitted by the Anti-Corruption Commission and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property on 8 February 2021. Dear Mr. President, I present to your attention and Draft Decision on the Commission's Anti-Corruption Action Report and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2020: Project! DECISION on the Report on the Commission's Action on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property for 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 18, para. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's work on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Tsatsarov! Today we are discussing the Report on the Commission's one-year work on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for the third time in this Chamber, in the mandate of this Parliament, which also adopted the new law on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The report was made under the law. Unlike the two previous reports, it contains data that can be used for further analysis. I will not repeat much of this data, but I will focus on some accents that say from now on what to do, because the situation in Bulgaria is now such that the fight against corruption is almost becoming very decent to the fight against the epidemic that is now in Bulgaria. The main conclusion is that we must get used to living both with the virus and with corruption in this country. First, the prevention of corruption. As much as the Commission's work seems to be an essential part of the report's data, only 2% of the decisions last year were on corruption prevention. Only 2%, which means that here the accent has to be something else. There is no analysis in the report. These 22 laws, submitted by the Council of Ministers, which have been subjected to the compliance procedure, for corruption risk, what is the analysis of these 22 laws? Also, the other actions in the prevention of corruption, both in the institutions and as it has allowed the Commission to do an analysis on a regulatory basis, which is a regulatory framework, where should the activity be expanded to? I therefore call on the Commission's next reports to have an analysis of the type of recommendations made. In what is the corruption risk of these recommendations made, 62% of them are adopted in 22 laws submitted by the Council of Ministers? In which areas is the corruption risk? Something very important! The public register which 2% and a half of the Commission's decisions dealt with. There the analysis says that the number of unsold declarations or unsold declarations is increasing, which speaks of something very significant.. people who are obliged to submit declarations, this is the political elite of Bulgaria, this is the management of Bulgaria, as if it considers the submission of the declarations to be not such a significant part, although there the administrative violations that the Commission has established have increased. Nevertheless, the growth of unsubstantiated declarations and non-confident declarations is growing! The conflict of interest is one of the Commission's essential activities. I objected in previous statements that perhaps the conflict of interest should not have entered into the work of the committees, but to remain by separate law, otherwise to establish itself, because the Commission does not have any influence on the publicity of declarations of conflict of interest which are in the municipalities, regional administrations and other state structures. People don't have that publicity there. They don't know what kind of declarations they filed for conflict of interest. It is interesting here that the fines for establishing a conflict of interest have increased, which can be welcomed in the Commission's work. They've grown, as I remember the numbers, about three times. Countering corruption is another essential part of the Commission's work, whose report we are looking at. Fourteen and a half of her decisions are in countering corruption. Here we find a reduction in the prosecutor's files given to the Anti-Corruption Commission. The decisions on operational interaction have grown, but there is no analysis of the type of corruption practices that the Commission finds as a factor in countering corruption. What are they to be able to analyze from here how further to act? He doesn't have any accents. There is particularly a lack of the focus on countering corruption in public procurement and the use of a huge public resource which is monitored by both the European Union and its respective structures. Effectiveness should also be sought in the removal of property, because these are nearly 65% of the Commission's decisions. It was pointed out that, until last year, the Commission was working on three laws, two of which were repealed, for the withdrawal of property. It is working under the Civil confiscation law, this year by order of the court and the European institutions it was given a carte blanche to the Commission to act on three and a half billion claimed property in 390 cases. It's a huge number! And it points out, almost, as a merit only to this committee. These are cases from before, these are cases that the Commission has claimed before the judicial authorities, but the funnel is too large - three and a half billion claimed property, last year recognised claims of 12 million and two tenths. By calculating it as a percentage, last year the Commission was able to realise claims of 0,35% Claims for 7,5 million have been dropped. BGN, which, in relation to the cases that have been completed, 12,2 property realised, recognized claims, 7,5 rejected property, is an efficiency of the Commission of about 60 and several percent. And one more thing, when I talk about efficiency, the effectiveness of the implementation of the seized property is money, stocks, shares, material property. Here is the trend of depreciation of the property, which was taken to the end, to its realization, which speaks of a serious reduction factor of the funds that have been claimed, taken away and finally realised. It is not a coincidence that we should ask ourselves why Bulgaria is at the last place in the European Union in dealing with corruption again? This shows the results of independent international research, and it is done in different ways and ways. According to the latest survey released a month ago, Bulgaria is last in Europe with an anti-corruption index of 44, which is below 50 and is considered too unsatisfactory. In the world, we're in 69th place and we're moving a little further. I use my comparison at the beginning: while with vaccination we are at the last place, if we are now making an effort, we can move forward, before parliament is the question of what needs to be done that we are no longer in the last place, but to move forward in these rankings. By thanking you for your attention, I wish a fruitful work of the Bulgarian Parliament in the area of countering corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u17	Thank you, Lord Nedyalkov. Are there any lines? No. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 111 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 35. The proposed draft decision has been adopted. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u18	We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY LAW. Report from the Energy Commission Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Energy Efficiency Act is amended and supplemented by the Energy Efficiency Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is It's five o'clock. long-term national strategy to support the renovation of the national building fund from residential and non-residential buildings up to 2050 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 the following amendments 1. point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. develop together with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and submit for adoption by the Council of Ministers a long-term national strategy to support the renovation of the national building fund of residential and non-residential buildings by 2050; 2. point 12 is amended as follows: ..12. establish a list of the debtors under art. 14a, para. 4 and their individual energy savings targets; The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the "1." provide the Minister of Energy annually, by 31 December, with information on the implementation of industrial energy efficiency policy and measures; The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. A new t. is created. 1: "1." develop, jointly with the Energy Minister, a long-term national strategy to support the renovation of the national building fund of residential and non-residential buildings by 2050; 2. They're creating a t. 7 and 8: "7." provide the Minister of Energy annually by 31 December of the relevant year with information on the implementation of energy efficiency policy and measures in residential buildings and information on the implementation of energy efficiency measures in non-residential buildings financed by public funds under operational programmes which organise, coordinate and control within the framework of its functional competence; 8. provide to the Minister of Energy annually by 31 December information on the implementation of the policy on the development and harmonisation with European Union law of regulations relating to energy efficiency issued independently or jointly with the ministers concerned. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by "1." provide the Minister of Energy annually by 31 December of the relevant year with information on the implementation of energy efficiency policy and measures in the sector of According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Boychev under Article 7. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the word "mart" is replaced by "January." 2. point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. submit to the Minister of Energy annually by 15 March a list of the debtors under art. 14a, para. 4 and their individual energy savings targets; 3. A new item is being created. 18 and so on. 19 and 20: 18. organise annually by 31 March the preparation and publication of an analysis of the state of energy efficiency in the country and of the annual progress on the implementation of the policy and measures to increase energy efficiency, including the implementation of the objective under art. 14a, para. 1; 19. participate in the development of a long-term national strategy to support the renovation of the national building fund of residential and non-residential buildings by 2050; 20. organise the preparation of information on progress in implementing the policy and measures to increase energy efficiency for the purposes of reporting on the Integrated Energy and Climate Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria, pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2018/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the management of the Energy Union and climate action, amending Regulations (EC) No 663/2009 and (EC) No 715/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Directives 94/22/EC, 98/70/EC, 2009/31/EC, 2009/73/EC, 2010/31/EU, 2012/27/EU and 2013/30/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Directives 2009/119/EC and (EU) 2015/652 and repealing Regulation (EU) No 525/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 328/1 of 21 December 2018) and introduces it to the Minister of Energy; 4. Previously on "T." 18 becomes t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, as in para. 2, in the text before t. The national objective is replaced by the national objectives and the word is replaced by the national objective and in para. 3 in the text before t. 1 words................................................................................. 1 and 2s are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. According to § 11 there is a proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Lyubomir Bonev and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Boychev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 14a and 14b: Art. 14a. (1) To support the implementation of the national energy efficiency target under art. 13, para. 2, p. A scheme of energy savings obligations and alternative measures shall be introduced to ensure the achievement of a common cumulative energy savings target for final energy consumption for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030. (2) The general cumulative objective under para. 1 for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030 shall be defined as the accumulation of new energy savings of a minimum of 0,8 per cent per year of the annual final energy consumption averaged for 2016, 2017 and 2018. (3) For a 10-year period after 2030 new annual energy savings shall be realized, which shall correspond to the overall cumulative objective set out in para. 2. (4) The difference between the overall cumulative objective under para. 1 and estimated energy savings from the application of alternative measures shall be allocated as individual energy savings targets to the following debtors: 1. final suppliers, suppliers of last resort, traders with a issued licence for the activity, which sell electricity to end customers more than 20 GWh per year; 2. heat transfer plants and heat suppliers that sell heat to final customers more than 20 GWh per year; 3. final suppliers and natural gas traders selling to final customers more than 10 GWh per year; 4. traders of liquid fuels that sell to end customers more than 2000 tonnes of liquid fuels per year; 5. traders of solid fuels that sell to end customers more than 13 thousand. tonnes of solid fuels per year. (5) The energy savings achieved in the execution of art. 14, para. 1 after 31 December 2020, shall not be reported in the amount of energy savings required for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020. (6) When determining the overall cumulative objective under para. 2 the following values may be used to calculate energy savings in the amount: 1. times 0,7 per cent per year for 2021 and 2022; 2. times 0.75 per cent per year for 2023 and 2024; 3 times 0,93 per cent per year for the period 2025 to 2030 Art. 14b. (1) An alternative measure is any policy measure which leads to energy savings in the final consumption of energy other than the energy savings obligation scheme. (2) The alternative measures to be applied, the estimated energy savings from them and the responsible authorities for their implementation shall be specified in the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan and the Integrated Energy and Climate Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The National Energy Efficiency Action Plan and the Integrated Energy and Climate Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria shall include one or more alternative measures which shall meet the following requirements: 1. provide for at least two interim reporting periods and the implementation of the measure contributes to the achievement of the overall cumulative objective of energy savings in the final energy consumption by 31 December 2020 and for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030; 2. determine the responsibilities of the executive bodies, the participating and implementing persons; 3. determine in a transparent way the energy savings to be achieved; 4. the volume of energy savings to be achieved by a measure shall be expressed in the form of final or primary energy consumption by conversion factors according to the regulation under art. 18, para. 1; 5. calculate the energy savings from the implementation of the measure by methods and principles according to the regulation under art. 18, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 6. ensure monitoring of the results and provide for appropriate measures where progress is inadequate; 7. provide annual publication of the data on annual trends in energy savings; 8. provide for priority implementation of measures to increase energy efficiency in vulnerable customers, including households affected by energy poverty and, where appropriate, in social care services, social and integrated health-social services for resident care and social shelter services. (4) Alternative measures shall also meet the following additional criteria: 1. to provide for the introduction of a control system which includes an independent verification of a statistically significant share of the energy efficiency improvement measures for the alternative measures to which the requirements of para. 3, p. 2 - 6; 2. provide for the participating parties to submit and make public annual reports on the energy savings achieved, where applicable, on the alternative measures subject to the requirement of para. 3, p. 3; 3. the implementation of energy efficiency measures leads to the achievement of energy savings. (5) The scope and assessment of the effect of the alternative measures implemented shall be indicated in the annual accounts for the implementation of the national energy efficiency action plans and for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030. In the analysis under art. 11, para. 6, p. 18. (6) No double counting of energy savings from the fulfilment of the individual objectives of the debtors and the application of alternative measures shall be permitted. (7) Alternative measures shall be considered all energy savings generated as a result of national and European support schemes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u20	I open the debates on the name of the bill, as well as paragraphs 1 to 11. Is there anyone who would like to speak? Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u21	By Paragraph 11, I have a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u22	Well, we're right on it. Okay, I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of the Bill; § 1 by the version of the Commission; § 2 by importer; paragraphs 3 to 7 by the version of the Commission; § 8 by importer; § 9 by the version of the Commission; § 10 by importer; and § 11 by the version of the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 22. Paragraphs and the name of the Bill have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u23	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, i.e. 3, para. 10 words.............................................................................. 11, para. 6, p. 3a and 4a 11, para. 6, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 14, and the word "may' is replaced by "may'. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 15, and the word "may' is replaced by "may'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, i.e. 1 the words "synthesis" shall be replaced by the text before that. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, by: "1." in para 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 the word "may' is replaced by "may'; 2. in para. 3 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." European Union emissions standards for new passenger cars and new light commercial vehicles resulting from the application of Regulation (EU) 2019/631 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 laying down CO2 emissions standards for new passenger cars and new light commercial vehicles and repealing Regulations (EC) No 443/2009 and (EU) No 510/2011 (OB, L 111/13 of 25 April 2019) ;................................................................. 3. in para. 4 the word "may" is replaced by "may." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, i.e. 1 point.................................................................................................. 1...................................................................................... 2 is amended as follows: "2." In para. 2 after the words. 14, para. Article 4 (c) is amended as follows: 14a, para. 4 " and the words "transfers' of the certificates for "receipts' shall be replaced by "receipts of the relevant'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. Proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Lyubomir Bonev and Zhelyo Boychev: ..created § 21a: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and 1. A new para is being created. 3, 4 and 5: s (3) For the purposes of para. 1 the administrative structures and the executive bodies shall prepare annual plans for the renewal of at least 5 percent of the total built-up area of the buildings used by the relevant administration heated and/or cooled buildings. (4) The plans under para. 3 contain information on the planned renovation of the developed area in the following year and the necessary means to do so. (5) The plans under para. 3 shall be prepared annually by 1 September and made available to the Council of Ministers for inclusion in the budget forecasts for the following calendar year. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3, 4 and 5 become respectively. 6, 7 and 8.................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u24	I shall open the debates referred to in paragraphs 12 to 21 including, and on the proposal for a new paragraph of, the Parliamentary Representative Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs. Mr. Ermenkov's statement please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u25	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take note of our proposal, and I would just like to remind you that about five minutes ago you adopted in § 14, that the difference between the cumulative objective with which we define and the projected energy savings according to alternative measures is distributed between private sector and consumer debtors. Among other things, you have accepted that alternative measures must define the responsibilities of the executive bodies involved and implementing persons, and in a transparent way energy savings must be determined. That is also the point of our proposal. Because in the current article. 23, para. 1 of the Energy Efficiency Act writes: "To support the implementation of the national energy efficiency target for all heated and/or cooled buildings of state property used by the public administration, measures are taken annually to improve the energy performance of at least 5 percent of the total developed area. This text, as you can see, is wishful thinking. There are no special requirements in it. He's from the genre only food will save the world from starving death. There is nothing concrete, there is nothing that meets the points for having to be specific objectives and in a transparent way to be taken into account. It is therefore that we propose that the measures that the state must take on its own buildings be linked to specific renovation plans of at least 5% of the total built-up area, which buildings of this 5% will be renovated, in what way, what funds will be needed for this. We propose that these funds be included in the relevant institutions. As it is currently written in para. 1 The Law will carry out some purpose, but with what money, where the money will come from, how it will happen, is not specified. Once again, we have seen that the State distributes very well the obligations to non-State debtors and obliges them to take measures. Moreover, you will then accept some rather salty sanctions for those of those who do not fulfil their obligations, but will not accept anything because no sanctions are provided for those of the state institutions who do not fulfil their obligations. It is thus obtained that the State, instead of setting an example with its own policy on its own buildings in a way that will be clear, transparent and financed and will show how energy efficiency measures are being made, it again transfers responsibility to the private sector, to consumers and does nothing about its own buildings. In other words, she has written that I should take measures, but specifically what she will do, when she will do it, whether she will do it, what the consequences will be, if she will not do it, are not described in the Law. I will tell you what the consequences are, because if it fails to implement its alternative measures, this means that the cumulative objective will not be met, and that means that the European Commission will once again start imposing sanctions on us for failing to fulfil our obligations under European law. It is for this reason that we are proposing this text. As I can see, there is not much desire to be supported by the ruling majority, unfortunately. This is also the reason why we abstain from the texts of our proposed Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. We cannot support a policy of the state which is unilateral, which is not balanced, which is not linked to fulfilling its own commitments. We understand that the Bill is important, we understand that we are in a penal procedure and this is the only reason that makes us vote only abstention rather than resisting the whole of philosophy, because, again, I say, the state cannot be a stepmother for the private sector and not make any commitments in terms of its own obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I understand the logic of your proposal, but I want to make it clear to my colleagues that the Law clearly describes the commitment of both municipalities and state and state enterprises to making commitments and meeting the energy efficiency criteria, as well as estimates in the budgets of the relevant organisations to meet these criteria. I think one of the priorities of the government is renovation and energy efficiency, it is related to energy efficiency. Again, I find logic in your proposal, but these commitments with plans, with budgetary provision, are very clearly described in the Law. If they weren't signed in the Law, yes, it makes sense to come here, but I don't think they should be repeated as texts in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u28	Any other lines? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, I will read to you one more time slowly. 23, para. 1: To support the implementation of the national energy efficiency target for all heated and/or cooled state-owned buildings used by the public administration, measures shall be taken annually to improve the energy performance of at least 5 percent of the total developed area. "How are they undertaken, in what order, on which buildings, what results are expected, how will it be reported anywhere. Therefore, we propose very specifically to make plans that cover these 5%, to make it clear which building what it will be doing, how much it will cost, what savings will be, so that these savings can then be taken into account. Otherwise, we risk finding ourselves in the situation in which we wish to do something, but we did not provide it financially. We therefore write that the funds and plans must be provided to the Ministry of Finance in order to secure their funding. You know how it is with budgets, especially in the severe crisis we are in, and budgets are so cut that enough for everything else, just not lately to fix our buildings with small exceptions. That was the reason we suggested this thing. Once again, I understand that it does not want to be adopted at the moment, but I am convinced that the time will come and this will happen, because without plans on specific energy efficiency measures, with specific sites, with specific funding, guaranteeing this funding, reporting and then controlling whether this is being implemented, there is no way to take energy efficiency measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 12 and 13 by importer; 14 and 15 by importer; 16 and 17 by importer; 18, 19 and 20 by importer; Vote 88 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 21. Paragraphs have been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. Vote 88 MPs: 20, against 58, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote § 21 by importer, which I failed to include in the first group that we voted on. They voted 83 MPs: 67, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u31	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Chapter 2, Section III sets up a new Article. 24: Art. 24. The long-term strategy to support the renewal of the national building fund of residential and non-residential buildings by 2050 contains: 1. review of the national building fund of residential and non-residential buildings (national building fund) based on statistical samples and expected share of renovated buildings in 2020; 2. the definition of cost-effective renovation approaches, tailored to the type of buildings and the climate area, taking into account the appropriate intervention moments, if any, in the life cycle of the building; 3. policies and actions to promote cost-effective major renovation of buildings, including phase-by-step major renovation; 4. a review of policies and actions aimed at buildings with the worst characteristics, obstacles to the distribution of incentives and market weaknesses and the identification of appropriate actions at national level that contribute to reducing energy poverty; 5. policies and actions aimed at all public service buildings; 6. review of national initiatives to promote smart technology in buildings and communities, as well as the acquisition of skills and education in the construction and energy efficiency sectors; 7. expected energy savings and their benefits, including health, safety and air quality benefits; 8. opportunities to create conditions for investors' access to package solutions by combining projects, including through investment platforms or groups, and through consortiums of small and medium-sized enterprises; 9. mechanisms for reducing the perceived risk to investors and individuals in implementing energy efficiency measures; 10. opportunities to use public funding to attract additional private sector investments or to address specific market failures; 11. opportunities for directing investments to achieve an energy efficient public building fund; 12. establishing accessible and transparent advisory tools such as one-stop shop and consulting on energy issues related to appropriate measures to increase energy efficiency and financing instruments; 13. a roadmap with measures contributing to the achievement of a decarbonised national building fund and facilitating the cost-effective transformation of existing buildings in buildings with close to zero energy consumption, measurable progress indicators and indicative milestones for 2030, 2050 and 2050. Under Paragraph 24, I have a proposal for an editorial amendment. First of all, in t. 1 I will read the editorial proposal that I will make: ............................................... 1 after the words "decreasing', the energy consumption is added and the consumption is added and after the word "costs' is replaced by "to be used for'.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u32	I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u33	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, i.e. 2 is amended as follows: "2." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 is finally a comma and added to the persons referred to in Article 2. 43, para. 1 and 2, and the persons referred to in Article 2. 59, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's,
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u34	I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 22 and 24. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 22 by importer and § 23 by the version of the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: 66, none, abstention 8. Paragraphs 22 and 23 have been adopted. I am now voting on the amendment proposal in § 24, t. 1 After the words "decreasing', the energy consumption is added and the consumption is added and after the word "costs' is replaced by "for'. Vote 80 MPs: 70, none, abstention 10. Editorial amendment accepted. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 24 with the editorial amendment. Vote 77 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 8. Paragraph 24 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u35	The Commission proposes to create a new § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 2 the terms of the regulations referred to in art. 18, para. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the procedure referred to in Article 2. 18, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Under § 25, there is a proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Boychev under Article 25. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) The investment projects under para. 1 shall meet the following requirements: 1. take into account the technical, environmental and economic feasibility of alternative highly efficient installations and systems; 2. to enable the installation of self-regulation and separate temperature control devices in each room or, where justified, in a specially designated heating area of the separate part of the building, where technically possible and economically appropriate; 3. to provide for the design of buildings with close to zero energy consumption from a date specified by the Ordinance under para. 4. 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) Energy consumption indicators and energy performance of buildings, minimum energy performance requirements of buildings or parts thereof in order to achieve optimal cost levels, technical energy efficiency requirements and methodology/standards for determining energy consumption in buildings, including buildings with close to zero energy consumption, shall be determined by a decree of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. 4. The creation of para. 6: The energy performance requirements of technical building installations, proper installation and appropriate sizing, setting and control of technical building installations in buildings shall be determined by regulations on the design, implementation, control and commissioning of construction works issued by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works independently or jointly with the competent ministers. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 26, which becomes § 27, as in para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence. The first sentence shall be replaced by the second sentence by the second sentence. The second sentence shall be replaced by the second sentence by the second sentence. The Commission proposes to create a new § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 31, para. The following points are inserted The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 33. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 34, as para. 7 is amended as follows: . (7) Public service buildings which meet the requirements of art. 31a, not subject to inspection under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 41, which shall mean, 1 the words "in the beginning' shall be replaced by "before' the words "in the beginning'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 43, i.e. 1 after the words "In para. In the text before this entry, the text shall be added to the text. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 44. The Commission proposes to create a new § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, p. 2 words. 2, 3 or 4 3 or 4 The Commission proposes to create a new § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 words shall be accompanied by a declaration of absence of the circumstances under art. 59, para. 2 is replaced by the following: The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 43 which becomes § 47 as in para. The words "can't' are replaced by "can't'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 49, i.e. 1 abbreviation "ESCO" is deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 50, in c. 1 the words................................ are deleted...................................................... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 after the words..................................................................................... 14, para. Article 4 (c) is amended as follows: 14a, ) (a.k.a. the (b) c. 3 words with boilers of water shall be replaced by combined heating and ventilation installations and a comma shall be placed in front of them. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) The information referred to in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3, p. 2 shall be provided by 15 February of the year concerned and the information referred to in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 53. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 50 which becomes § 54, i.e. 1 is amended as follows: "1." In para. In cases where the energy efficiency test is carried out by third parties, the contracting entity shall replace the offerer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 56. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 53, which becomes § 57 as in para. 1, t. 3 the word "can" is replaced by "can" is replaced by "can" is replaced by "can." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 62. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 64. The Commission proposes to create a new § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103 words.............................................................................. 59, para. 2 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 61, which shall become § 66. Under § 62, there is a proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Boychev under Article 62. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 62, which shall become § 67: ................. Article 106 is amended as follows: Art. 106. (1) The owner of an undertaking, an industrial system and an external artificial lighting system which failed to fulfil its obligation under art. 57, para. 2, a fine from 1000 to 2000 BGN is imposed. or a financial penalty from 6000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) For violation of para. 1 re-run, a fine of 10 000 to 30 000 BGN is imposed. or penalty from 50 000 to 100 000 BGN The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 68. The Commission proposes to establish § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108 the word "Species" is replaced by "Species." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 71, by: "1." of which: Paragraph 1 (b) is amended as follows: 42 the word "may" is replaced by "may" is replaced by "may." 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." In Paragraph 2, a comma is finally placed and added to Directive (EU) 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 amending Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency (OB, L 328/210 of 21 December 2018) and Directive (EU) 2018/844 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2010/31/EU on the energy performance of buildings and Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency (OB, L 156/75 of 19 June 2018) supposed to be at the end of the restructuring period. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer for the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 66, which shall become § 72: ................. The requirements of the technical building installations shall be determined by the regulations under art. 31, para. 6 by 1 January 2025 Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Boychev under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 73: .............................................................................. The information referred to in art. 11, para. 6, p. 20 shall be granted to the Minister of Energy for the first time until 31 January 2023 Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Boychev under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 67, which shall become § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In the Energy Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 2, c. 5 words................................................................................. 14, para. Art. 4 and art. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 14, para. Art. 4, Art. 14a, para. Art. 4, Art. 15, 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38b is created. 7. In the case of a building with a floor property, all installed means of measuring the consumption of heat, cooling or hot water for domestic use and/or heat distributors shall be provided with remote readings, the final users shall be provided with information on the invoicing on the basis of actual consumption or consumption based on the readings of the heat distributor at least once a month. This information may be provided via the Internet and updated as often as the measuring tools and the systems used allow. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140 are created. 7 and 8: On installation of new funds under para. 1 are the same with remote readings. (8) Individual water meters for hot water with remote reading in the property of customers connected to a subscriber station in a building of floor property shall be supplied by the person under art. 139b or approved by it for use in the building. 4. A new article shall be created. 146: Art. 146. In the case of centralised supply of energy for cooling from a central source or district cooling system, the means of measuring the energy used for cooling shall be installed at the supply point: 1. to each individual building when supplying multiple buildings; 2. on each individual property when the cooling energy is supplied in a building.. floor property................................................................................................................. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149 is created. 3: . (3) Where a legal person who is housed in a separate property of a building.. floor property does not enter into a contract under para. 1, t. 3, the sale of heat shall be carried out in accordance with Article 3. 150, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 195th para is created. Mr. Chairman, I have an editorial proposal here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u36	Are you doing this now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u37	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u38	Okay, do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u39	Mr. Chairman, I have an editorial proposal. 6 to become al. 7. In the case of technical feasibility and economic appropriateness, the means of commercial measurement under para. 2 must reflect the actual consumption of natural gas and provide information on the actual time of consumption. "7." In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 28b: "28b." In the case of an individual contract, the contract shall be signed by the competent authority of the Member State in which the contract is concluded.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u40	I shall open the deliberations in paragraphs with a new numbering from 25 to 71 including; the name of the Section "Transitional and Final Provisions'; the text of § 66, which shall become § 72 in the version of the Commission; and the text of the new § 73. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the just-read paragraphs, as well as the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions." They voted 83 MPs: 67, none, abstention 16. Paragraphs and the name of the Section have been adopted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment tabled in the Chamber by Mr. Dimitar Boychev in § 67, which accepts a new numbering § 74: in this section. 6 para. 6 is replaced by para. 7. Vote 84 MPs: 67, none, abstention 17. Editorial amendment accepted. And now I am putting to the vote the text of § 67, which accepts a new numbering...................................................................................... Vote 89 MPs: for 68, against none, abstention 21. Paragraph 67, with a new numbering § 74, has been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u41	The Commission proposes to establish § 75: ................................................................................... Until 1 January 2027 the installed means under art. 140, para. 1 of the Energy Act, which are not capable of remote reporting, are redesigned in such a way as to allow for remote readings or are replaced by remote means. The Commission proposes to establish § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Until the entry into force of § 74, t. 2 concerning Art. 38b, para. 7 of the Energy Act, end-uses of heat, cooling or domestic hot water shall be provided with information on invoicing on the basis of actual consumption or consumption on the basis of the readings of the heat distributor at least once a quarter upon request or where end-users prefer to receive electronic invoices and, in other cases, twice a year, when in a building of floor property, all the measuring instruments installed are remotely recorded. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 77. The Commission proposes to establish § 78: ...... 78............................................................................ The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 7, item 7. 1, t. 3, on the creation of a new item. 18 and § 74, p. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u42	Thank you. I open the debates on the texts of the new § 75; the new § 76; § 68, which becomes § 77 by importer; and the text of the new § 78. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the texts of the read paragraphs. Vote 87 MPs: 65 against 1, abstention 21. The texts of the paragraphs have been adopted, thus amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, The bill has already been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u43	Thanks, guys! I also thank the Commission's collaborators for their work efficiency. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u44	Thank you, Mr. Boychev, for your endurance and sustainability. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR HEALTH DISCLOSURE. Report from the Committee on Health Mrs. Daritkova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In addition to the Act on Health Insurance, No 154-01-11, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 3 February 2021, adopted in the first vote on 12 February 2021. The claim for the supplement of the Insurance Act. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: The claim for amendment and supplement of the Insurance Act. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following 1. A new para is being created. 2: (2) In carrying out the control under para. 1 The Court of Auditors in the Report under art. 6, para. 5 of the Law on the Court of Auditors also takes an opinion on how to implement the mechanisms ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the NHIF under art. 45, para. 31 and 35, and the methodologies for their implementation. 2. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: . (3) The Court of Auditors shall send for information the Report under para. 2 of the Minister of Health. (4) Based on the Report of the Court of Auditors under para. 2 The Minister of Health may make a proposal to the Supervisory Board of the NHIF to amend and/or supplement the mechanisms ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the NHIF under art. 45, para. 31 and 35, and the methodologies for their implementation. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 5. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected. Transitional and final provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... (1) Exceptionally in 2021 in the event of a declared emergency because of the epidemic spread of infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 or 3 of the Health Act or in the case of declared exceptional epidemic situation due to epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act, the mechanism under art. 45, para. 31 does not apply to medicinal products derived from human plasma or from human blood-immunoglobulins included in the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 and 2 of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, paid by the NHIF: 1. fully or partially for home treatment in the territory of the country; 2. in hospital medical care beyond the value of the medical services provided. (2) The costs of the NHIF for medicinal products under para. 1 above the designated target funds in the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021, taking into account the share of the reserve in a decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund under art. 15, para. 1, t. 7 shall not be refunded by the marketing authorisation holders/their authorised representatives of the medicinal products for which the mechanism under art. 45, para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (3) The provisions of para. 1 and 2 shall apply until the emergency situation has been lifted, respectively, of the exceptional epidemic situation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. According to § 4, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u46	Thank you. I am opening the debates on the texts of the Bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote: the name of the draft law in the version of the Commission; a new § 1; the rejection of § 1 by importer; the name of the section supplier; the wording of § 2 in the version of the Commission; § 3 by importer; the rejection of § 4 and § 5 which becomes § 4 by importer. Vote 89 MPs: 71 against 16, abstention 2. The texts of the Bill have been adopted, and thus the Health Insurance Act has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR INDISTRIAL PARKS. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will be presented personally by Mr. Peter Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u47	Colleagues, we're starting with a hall pass. I propose, on the basis of our Rules, that we allow Stamen Yanev to become Deputy Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u48	Access mode in the hall. I'm voting to allow the Deputy Minister of Economy. Vote 81 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to take his place.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u49	Colleagues, it's a long bill, and I'm counting on the help of my deputies. The Industrial Parks Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - Basics. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter 1 be amended as follows: "Department I "The Object and Purpose ". The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Section I be amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. "Department II" "Principles". The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of Section II but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in the name of Section I. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. The creation, operation and development of industrial parks is based on the following principles: 1. publicity and transparency of the activities and information related to the establishment, construction, operation and development of industrial parks; 2. equality of industrial parks regardless of ownership, operator or investors; 3. competitiveness in the selection of an industrial park operator, which is created by the State and/or by the municipality; 4. State support for the creation of industrial parks and incentives to attract investment in industrial parks, in accordance with the legislation in force. "Department III "Industrial Park ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III, which shall become Section II. Under art. 4 there is a proposal received by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) Industrial Park is a separate territory located in one or more municipalities for which the construction, technical and organizational conditions for production activities are provided. (2) The territory of an industrial park shall be defined and regulated with a specialized detailed plan of the industrial park, hereinafter referred to as an IP POS, as a production site. (3) The territory of an industrial park shall not be less than 300 decares. (4) The territory of an industrial park may be: 1. less than 300 decares but not less than 100 decares where the industrial park specialises in high-tech activities within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 11 of the additional provisions of the Investment Promotion Act and is separate within a territory of a high-tech production zone within the meaning of the regulation under art. 13, para. 1 of the Law on Construction of the Area (ZUT) ; 2. less than 100 decares but not less than 10 decares when the industrial park specialises in high-tech activities within the meaning of § 1, item 2. 11 point (b) of the Additional Provisions of the Investment Promotion Act. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The PUP of the IP shall determine the structure of the territory of the industrial park, the construction areas and the areas of construction and the purpose of the land properties, according to art. 112 of ZUT. (2) The industrial park shall consist of regulated land properties intended for production activities. In the industrial park, regulated land properties and for other purposes are allowed for auxiliary and service activities related to the operation of the park, including traffic and transport and other technical infrastructure, for public service activities, for landscaped areas and for special sites, their total area cannot be equal to or greater than half of the area of the park. (3) When registering an industrial park, land estates which are subject to legal disputes for property rights shall not be allowed to be included in its territory. Under art. 6 has a proposal from the MP Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) An internal technical infrastructure shall be provided on the territory of an industrial park to serve only activities carried out on the territory of the park and its connectivity with the elements of the technical infrastructure under art. 64, para. 1 of ZUT. (2) An industrial park or part thereof may fall into a protected area subject to the requirements laid down by the applicable legislation. Under art. 7 has a proposal from the MP Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) The internal technical infrastructure of the industrial park shall include at least: 1. transport technical infrastructure of the industrial park; 2. water supply and sewerage network in the territory of the industrial park; 3. an electricity distribution network within the meaning of § 1, item 3. 22 or so. 24 is one of the additional provisions of the Energy Act. (2) The internal technical infrastructure of the industrial park may include other elements of the technical infrastructure of the park, in accordance with its operation and with the technical infrastructure elements to which the park is connected, respectively. (3) On the territory of the industrial park may be located elements of other technical infrastructure, including external energy supply networks and facilities under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 LUT, street nets and facilities under art. 70, para. Art. 1, art. 77 and 78 LUT and water and sewerage networks and facilities under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 ZUTs that are: 1. constructed before the registration of the park in the register under art. 21, para. 1; 2. technical infrastructure elements to which the park is connected, connected respectively; 3. defined with the entry into force of a development plan for construction and reconstruction of objects under art. 205, t. One and two ZUTs. (4) The transport technical infrastructure under para. 1, t. 1 is designed, built and maintained by the owner of the industrial park on regulated land properties for internal streets. (5) The networks of transport technical infrastructure, linear engineering networks of water supply and sewerage, electricity, heat supply, gas supply and electronic communications within the industrial park shall be designed and constructed according to the rules of the LOC for street networks and facilities of the technical infrastructure and shall be connected to the elements of the technical infrastructure outside the park. "Department IV......................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section IV, which shall become Section III. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The owner of the industrial park shall ensure the organizational, construction and technical conditions for the establishment, construction, operation and development of the park. (2) The owner of an industrial park may be the State and/or one or more municipalities, as well as a legal person registered as a trader within the meaning of the Commercial Law or their associations. (3) The State and/or one or more municipalities may participate in legal entities or their associations with a blocking quota under art. 57a, para. 2 of the State Property Act, respectively under art. 51b, para. 2 of the Municipal Property Act, where their participation is equal to or greater than 30 per cent. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. (1) An industrial park operator shall be a person carrying out the operations of the industrial park. (2) Where the owner of the industrial park is the State or the municipality, an operator may be: 1. the public undertaking of a commercial company, the sole owner of the capital of which is the State or the municipality; 2. concessionaire determined in accordance with the Law on concessions. (3) Where the owner of the industrial park is the state and one or more municipalities, or two or more municipalities, an operator may be: 1. a public undertaking with state and municipal or municipal participation in the capital; 2. concessionaire of a joint concession under the Law on concessions. (4) Where the owner of the industrial park is a legal person registered as a trader or association, the functions of an operator shall be performed by the owner or by another trading company. (5) Where the functions of an operator are not performed by the owner of the industrial park, the relationship between the owner and the operator shall be governed by a contract for the award of the activities of the industrial park, hereinafter referred to as the "service contract', which meets the conditions of art. 28. Where the operator is a concessionaire, the operations of the industrial park shall be awarded by the concession contract under the terms and conditions of the concession law and subject to the conditions of art. 28..................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. An industrial park investor is a trader within the meaning of the Commercial Law, which operates in the park on the basis of a business contract concluded with the operator under the terms of this law and the rules for the overall organisation in the industrial park. Under art. 11 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) Partner in an industrial park is a person who supports the operation and development of the industrial park under contract with the operator: 1. to provide scientific and appropriate services and innovations and/or professional training for the needs of the park, concluded with scientific, educational, professional, business or other organisations; 2. for the provision of services to investors concluded with a municipality, with a public authority or with a budget maintenance organisation or with a government office, as well as with persons who carry out the clearance of transport and customs documents, legal advice, security, assistance in issuing certificates of origin of goods, mediocre recruitment activities, assistance in issuing documents, banking services, social, medical and other public service activities. (2) The owners of technical infrastructure elements other than the internal technical infrastructure owned by the industrial park owner shall not be partners. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u50	I open the debates on the name of the bill; in the version of Chapter One; the version of Section I; art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 by importers; the rejection of Section II; art. 3 in the version of the Commission; Section III, which becomes Section II; Articles 4, 5 and 6 in the version of the Commission; art. 7 in the version of the Commission; the name of Section IV, which becomes Section III; art. Art. 8 to art. Article 11 as amended by the Commission; and 12 by importer. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the texts I have just read, along with the name of the Law and the Sections. Vote 87 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 16. The texts, the names of the sections, their renumbering and the texts of the articles you were familiar with have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u51	"Department V. Owned." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section V, which shall become Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13, as in para. 1 the word "sex' is replaced by "must'. Under art. 14 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) The owner of the property in the territory of an industrial park may sell or lease property to a user or establish limited property rights to him. The sale, renting and establishment of property rights of state or municipal property is carried out under the terms and conditions of the State Property Act, respectively of the Municipal Property Act. The sale, renting and establishment of property rights owned by a public undertaking of a commercial company, the sole owner of the capital of which is the State or the municipality, shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of the Public Enterprises Act and its implementing rules. (2) Deal by para. 1 may be carried out after the entry into force of an IPMP which regulates the property concerned and after the application of the property in the cadastral map and cadastral registers. (3) Deal by para. 1 shall be subject to entry under the conditions and under the order of Chapter 10a of the Cadastral and Property Register Act. Within three working days of the entry, the acquirer shall notify the operator. Within three working days of notification, the operator shall declare the entry of the transaction in the register under art. 21, para. 1. (4) A consumer who acquires rights on property in the territory of an industrial park shall be bound by the conditions and restrictions laid down by the rules for the overall organization in the industrial park and by the PUP of IP. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) With the contract of operation, the owner of the industrial park may authorise the operator to carry out the transactions under art. 14, para. 1. The rights of disposal and management shall be entered in the register of art. 21, para. 1. (2) When the operator is a concessionaire, para. 1 shall not apply. In these cases, the transactions under para. 1 shall be carried out only by the State, respectively by the municipality, under the conditions and under the terms of art. 14. Under art. 16 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The internal technical infrastructure under art. 7, para. 1, t. 1 is owned by the owner of the industrial park, and in cases of art. 13, para. 2 or where this is determined by the decision to create the operator's industrial park. (2) Internal technical infrastructure shall not be subject to a transaction under art. 14, para. 1 except for: 1. sale to the State or the municipality concerned, or 2. establishment of limited property rights of passage and passage under art. 192 and 193 of LU, or 3. establishment of limited property rights for the construction of energy sites under art. 62 of the Energy Act. "Department VI " Types of Industrial Parks ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section VI, which shall become Section V. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. According to production activities, the industrial park is: 1. A-type general in which there is no specialization of production activities; 2. B-type specialized in which one type of production and related activities or similar production activities are carried out; 3. C type specialized in which high-tech and related activities are carried out. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. According to the owner, the type of industrial park is: 1. state-owned where the State is the owner; 2. the municipality where the owner is one municipality; 3. joint.. where the owner is the state and one or more municipalities, and where the owner is two or more municipalities; 4. a private person, where the owner is a legal person registered as a trader or association, including in the cases referred to in art. 8, para. 3. "Department VII" "Police policy for industrial parks." Measures to stimulate industrial parks. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section VII, which shall become Section VI. Under art. 19 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. (1) State policy for industrial parks shall be conducted by the Council of Ministers, by the Minister of Economy and by the authorities of local self-government. (2) The Council of Ministers shall: 1. on a proposal from the Minister of Economy, adopt programmes and solutions to stimulate the creation and/or operation and/or development of industrial parks, hereinafter referred to as the 2. exercise the rights of the state in state industrial parks and in joint industrial parks with state and municipal participation; 3. on a proposal from the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works approves a list of key industrial parks with strategic importance for the balanced territorial development of the country, corresponding to the objectives and priorities of the strategic documents for regional and spatial development under the Regional Development Act; the list includes industrial parks listed in the register under art. 21, para. 1 and shall be drawn up on the basis of an up-to-date analysis. (3) The Minister of Economy: 1. implement the measures entrusted by an act of the Council of Ministers to stimulate industrial parks; 2. provide free information about the possibilities for setting up industrial parks; 3. control the compliance of the activities carried out in the territory with those defined in the IPMP; 4. build and maintain the Register of Industrial Parks; 5. issue orders for entry and removal of industrial parks from the register under art. 21, para. 1. (4) The Municipal Council shall: 1. adopt measures to stimulate industrial parks in the territory of the municipality; 2. exercise the rights of the municipality in municipal industrial parks and in joint industrial parks with state and municipal or municipal participation. (5) Where the owner of an industrial park is the state and/or municipality, the authorities under para. 2, 3 and 4 shall ensure that an assessment of compliance with State aid legislation under art. 21, para. 2 of the Public Finance Act. Under art. 20 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. (1) After entering an industrial park in the register under art. 21, para. 1 until removal from the register, the park shall be subject to a simplified administrative service regime for the construction and development of the park under the conditions of Chapter 3. (2) The owner of an industrial park and an investor may receive support under the terms and conditions of the Investment Promotion Act, as well as through national programmes and through the ESI Funds. (3) As a measure for stimulating industrial parks, the municipal council may: 1. determine preferential rates of local fees for technical and administrative services related to activities carried out in the territory of an industrial park; 2. exempt the owners and investors from local fees when the fees relate to the premises of the internal technical infrastructure and to the public service establishments in the territory of the industrial parks. "Department VIII " Register of Industrial Parks ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section VIII, which shall become Section VII. Under art. 21 has a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. (1) The Minister of Economy shall establish and maintain an electronic register of industrial parks which shall provide: 1. exchange of data, documents and information in connection with the registration and publication in the register by electronic means with a qualified electronic signature under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services; 2. public access through the Internet to the information under para. 2 and to the documents under para. 3, except where the information is protected by law or sensitive information. (2) In the register under para. 1 the following information is inserted: 1. Registration code; 2. name of the industrial park; 3. type and type of industrial park, as well as type of specialized production activities, when the park is type B, and type of high-tech activities for which the park is intended 4. data on eligible activities in the territory of the park; 5. location data (administrative address) and the area of the park; 6. identifications of land properties in the territory of the park on the cadastral map and cadastral registers; 7. data on the technical infrastructure built on the territory of the industrial park, including on its entry into service; 8. owner; 9. operator; 10. activities of operation of the park which are carried out by the operator; 11. rights of disposal and management granted by the owner of the operator; 12. data on investors - name of investor and type of production activity it carries out; 13. partners, where available, and data on the type of services they provide on the territory of the park; 14. changes in the circumstances under point 14. 1 s.13; 15. date of deletion of the entry and the basis for this. (3) In the register under para. 1 shall be published: 1. concept of the industrial park; 2. Rules for the overall organization in the industrial park; 3. detailed design plan of the industrial park with its amendments; 4. Updates of the documents under point 4. 1 5. Orders of the Minister of Economy to enter data and to publish documents in the register. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) Industrial Park, entered in the register under art. 21, para. 1 is deleted: 1. at the initiative of the owner; 2. when an act of a competent authority enters into force, it is established that activities are carried out in the territory of the park which are not eligible or do not comply with the spatial characteristics or specific purpose of the territory in accordance with the PUP of the IP or its amendment entered into force. (2) Where it is established that the operator has not stated the entry of changes or of an updated document within three months of the change or update of the document, the Minister of Economy shall inform the operator thereof. If the operator fails to fulfil its obligation within 30 days of notification, the industrial park shall be deleted from the register. (3) The deletion shall be carried out within three days of the entry into force of the Order of the Minister of Economy. (4) The order under para. 3 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. "Department IX............................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section IX, which shall become Section VIII. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. This law shall not apply: 1. for industrial areas, industrial parks and technological parks which are not listed in the register under art. 21, para. 1; 2. for the construction, operation and development of sites in territories and land properties which are outside the boundaries of industrial parks entered in the register under art. 21, para. 1 and are intended for production activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u52	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I open the debates on the read paragraphs and sections. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote: the texts of Section V, which becomes Section IV; the texts of art. 13 to 16 in the version of the Commission; the text of Section VI, which becomes Section V; Articles 17 and 18 in the version of the Commission; the text of Section VII, which becomes Section VI; the texts of Articles 19 and 20 in the version of the Commission; the wording of Section VIII, which becomes Section VII; the texts of Articles 21 and 22 in the version of the Commission; and the text of Section IX which becomes Section VIII; and the text of art. 23 in the version of the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 76 MPs: 59, none, abstention 17. The texts have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u53	Revoting, revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u54	Okay. Revoting, coworkers. Vote 87 MPs: 70, none, abstention 17. The texts read are adopted together with the names and the renumbering of the sections. I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u55	Colleagues, we're starting work. Mrs. Saveklieva, please proceed with Chapter Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u56	"Chapter 2" Creating an industrial park. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. "Department I " Proposal and solution for the establishment of an industrial park ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) Industrial Park shall be established by decision: 1. on a proposal from the Minister of Economy to the Council of Ministers for state industrial park and for a joint industrial park with state and municipal participation; 2. on a proposal from the mayor of the municipality to the municipal council for municipal industrial park and for a joint industrial park with municipal or municipal participation; 3. according to the founding act of the legal person, respectively the unification of the private industrial park. (2) To the proposal under para. 1 shall apply: 1. concept of the industrial park; 2. the business plan of the operator; 3. design of a project for the design of an IPAP or a detailed development plan for the territory of the industrial park; 4. draft contract of operation, except where the owner is also an operator; 5. draft rules for the overall organization in the industrial park; 6. land ownership acts included in the territory of the industrial park or information on the current land ownership identifiers of the cadastral map and cadastral registers. (3) The decision to establish an industrial park shall contain: 1. name of the park; 2. type of the park and, where it is type B, the type of production for which it is intended; 3. area of the park; 4. up-to-date land ownership identifiers in the territory of the industrial park of the cadastral map and cadastral registers, where applicable; 5. consent to the conclusion of a contract of operation, where applicable, with an indication of the name and ID of the operator; 6. approval of the concept of the industrial park and the rules for the overall organization in the industrial park; 7. other conditions conforming to the requirements of this law. (4) The decision to set up an industrial park shall be the basis for the conclusion of a contract of operation where applicable, and shall be a condition for the entry of the park in the register under art. 21, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. "Department II " Documents and contracts related to the establishment, construction and operation of an industrial park ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25, such as: "1." Text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The concept of industrial park defines long-term perspectives and objectives for the development of the park which contains: 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the words "target and task' shall be replaced by "target and task'; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the words of the technical networks closed are replaced by the internal technical networks. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28. Under art. 29 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: Art. 29. (1) The rules for the overall organization in the industrial park shall contain: 1. the terms and conditions for the design, construction and use of the internal technical infrastructure; 2.The terms and order for the acquisition of property rights or parts of properties located on the territory of the park; 3.The arrangements and order of construction in the territory of the park; 4. the terms and conditions for carrying out the services provided by the operator to investors; 5. enumeration of activities that are eligible in the territory of the park; 6. rights and obligations of the operator and of the users, including when erasing the industrial park from the register under art. 21, para. 1. (2) In determining rights and obligations in relation to para. 1, t. 3 preferences may be granted to individual investors and the conditions for their implementation are set out in the rules for the overall organisation in the industrial park. "Department III "Signing an industrial park and changes in the Register of Industrial Parks ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. Under art. 30 has a proposal of the MP Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: Art. 30. (1) After the conclusion of the contract of operation and where the operator is also the owner of the industrial park after the adoption of the decision establishing the industrial park, the operator shall apply for entry of the park in the register under art. 21, para. 1 by electronic means with a qualified electronic signature under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. (2) To the application under para. 1 shall apply the documents referred to in Article 1. 21, para. 3, p. 1 and 2 in electronic format. (3) Within 14 days of the submission of the application under para. 1 Minister of Economy: 1. issue an order to enter the industrial park in the register under art. 21, para. 1, or 2. inform the operator of the existence of irregularities in the application by: a) non-compliance of the area of the industrial park with the requirements of art. 4, para. 3; (b) absence of information under art. 21, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (c) non-compliance with the documents annexed to the application under art. 21, para. 3, item 1 and 2 with the requirements of this law; (d) submission of the application by a person who is not an operator; or (e) submission of the application without attached documents under para. 2. (4) When within 30 days of the notification under para. 3, p. 2 The operator has not removed the irregularities; the Minister of Economy shall issue an order for refusal of entry in the register under art. 21, para. 1. The Minister of Economy shall issue an entry order, respectively, for refusal to enter the industrial park within 5 working days of the expiry of the period referred to in the first sentence. The order shall be sent to the operator by electronic means and shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The entry of changes and the publication of updated documents shall be stated within three months of the change, respectively, from the date of the update, as para. 2 - 4 are applicable respectively. "Chapter 3" "Sustainment of Industrial Park". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32, as in para. 2 the words "Regulation (EC) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014' shall be replaced by "the Call for Electronic Document and Electronic Information Services'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33, such as: 1. In para. 2, p. 2 the words "50 percent" shall be replaced by "half." 2. In para. 3 after the words "SET' or "special' are added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34 as para. 5 is amended as follows: . (5) The refusal of the administrative authority may only be based on the legality and must be motivated. "Chapter 4" "Function and development of industrial park". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. "Department I.... and use of industrial park............................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Under art. 35 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35: Art. 35. (1) The operations of the industrial park carried out by the operator shall include: 1. management and maintenance of the internal technical infrastructure owned by the owner of the industrial park in accordance with the technical requirements laid down by the applicable regulations for the relevant technical infrastructure elements; 2. providing administrative and other services to investors concerning activities carried out in the territory of the park in accordance with the rules for the overall organisation in the industrial park and the relevant business contract; 3. providing assistance to consumers in the industrial park in connection with the administrative service of their activities by state and municipal institutions; 4. the conclusion of business contracts, partnership contracts and service contracts. (2) The operations of the industrial park may also include: 1. construction of elements of the internal technical infrastructure and construction activities for the development of the industrial park; 2. conclusion of contracts with partners to provide social, administrative and other service activities and services in the territory of the industrial park; 3. construction and maintenance of transport access and construction and maintenance of accessions of elements of the internal technical infrastructure of the park to available external technical infrastructure under art. 64, para. If applicable, 1 of the LULUCF. 4. conclusion of a service contract with persons holding a document for carrying out activities with waste under art. 35 of the Waste Management Act, the collection and transport of waste generated in the territory of the industrial park, to the relevant facilities and installations; 5. construction and maintenance of production and other buildings and facilities in the territory of the industrial park; 6. other activities at the discretion of the owner. Under art. 36 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: Art. 36. (1) Under the terms and conditions of the Energy Act, respectively of the Water Act and of the Water Regulatory and Sewerage Services Act, and in the absence of a person providing utilities, the operator may perform the functions of: 1. a closed distribution network operator and/or a closed distribution network operator within the meaning of the Energy Act; 2. Water operator within the meaning of art. 198o, para. 6 of the Water Act and Art. 2, para. 3 of the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act of the Water Supply and Sewerage Systems and Facilities of the Internal Technical Infrastructure. (2) The fact that the operator will perform the functions under para. 1 shall be indicated in the service contract. In such cases, if the operator is not the owner, property rights shall be established for the benefit of the operator on the elements of the internal technical infrastructure necessary for the issue of the relevant licence under para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37 and the words of the contract concerned shall be deleted. "Department II" "Development of Industrial Park". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 38: Art. 38. (1) An industrial park may be developed on production, support and public service activities carried out on its territory by: 1. expansion of the territory of the park; 2. restructuring of the park; 3. Reconstruction of the construction of the park territory. (2) The activities under para. 1 shall be carried out on the basis of administrative acts issued after the completion of the administrative proceedings applicable to each activity under art. 31, para. 2, subject to the conditions, in accordance with the procedure and within the time limits set out in Chapter 3. Under art. 39 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39: Art. 39. An extension of the industrial park may be carried out by amending the Industrial Park PUP in order to develop production activities, increase the volume and quality of the public service activities or increase the capacity of the transport technical infrastructure in the industrial park or the capacity and quality of the other elements of the internal technical infrastructure. Under art. 40 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 40: Art. 40. The restructuring of an industrial park may be carried out in order to develop production activities and to increase the volume and quality of public service activities or internal technical infrastructure by amending the industrial park PUP on the way and nature of the construction of separate regulated land properties or the rules and regulations of the industrial park PUP, including by: 1. formation of new and splitting or unifying existing regulated land properties; 2. a change of existing construction of one or more regulated land properties for the construction of new buildings and facilities for production and support activities, for public service activities as well as for another purpose related to the operation and service of the industrial park. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 38, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u57	Let's stop here, and then we'll look at the additional provisions. Hey, guys, any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote: the texts of the importer submitted by Mrs. Saveklieva; the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; and the rejection of the text of the importer proposed by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 14. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Procedure Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure, Mr President, is to extend the working time of the plenary until the adoption of this paragraph. 14 The Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Recognition of Professional Qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u59	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 93 MPs: 80 against 6, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We continue with the additional provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u60	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, i.e. 1 the words "supplied buildings" shall be deleted. Under § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with Article 2. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with Article 3. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of the Law, the Minister of Economy shall establish the register under art. 21, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. Within one year of the entry into force of the law, the Minister of Economy together with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall submit the list under art. 19th para. 2, p. 3. Under § 4, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with Article 4. 83. para. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ (1) The industrial zones and technological parks established at the date of entry into force of the law may be entered in the register under art. 21, para. 1 after the submission of the information under art. 21, para 2, the documents referred to in art. 21, para. 3 and a document certifying the agreement of not less than half of the investors holding the right to ownership of land in the territory of the industrial zone or technological park with the rules for the overall organisation in the industrial park and with the operator chosen by the owner, if any. (2) When the entry under para. 1 shall not apply the provisions of: 1. Article 4, para. Art. 2, Art. 13, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, such as: (a) the area may not be less than 200 decares; (b) the acquired on the date of submission of the application for registration of property rights in the territory of the industrial zone or technological park, including on elements of the technical infrastructure under art. 64, para. 1 of the LU shall be retained; (c) the investor and the operator shall not enter into a business contract where the rights and obligations of the investor and the owner of the industrial park are regulated in the purchase-selling contract/for other property rights acquired by the investor. 2. Article 5, para. 3 where legal disputes concerning property rights are for outstanding investment projects certified under the Investment Promotion Act. (3) The detailed plans of industrial parks, industrial areas, technological parks and other similar entities which are in operation, which meet the conditions of para. 1 to be entered in the Register of Industrial Parks may be amended in order to comply with the requirements of this Law under the terms and conditions laid down in the Law on Construction of the Area. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u61	Let's stop here. Are there any speeches? I won't. I vote: the texts of the importer submitted by the rapporteur; the editorial proposals made by the Commission; the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the rejection of a text and the creation of a new paragraph with a text on the Commission Report. They voted 99 MPs: 86, none, abstention 13. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u62	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov: In § 6 t. 1 is amended as follows: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 3 in cases where the property is included in the territory of an industrial park registered under the Industrial Parks Act or for the construction and operation of an energy plant for the production of energy from renewable sources. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u63	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm proposing an amendment to § 6, t. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions: In § 6 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." Art. 54, para. 3 is amended as follows: (3) Municipalities shall not be entitled to donate the properties acquired under para. 1. Municipalities may replace or contribute as a non-cash contribution to the capital of commercial companies acquired properties only in cases related to the realization of sites necessary for the permanent satisfaction of local public needs. The ban fits the accounts of the acquired properties.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u65	Thank you. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov. They voted 99 MPs: 11 against 11 abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by the MP Andrian Raykov. They voted 101 MPs: 93, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6 with the editorial amendments adopted so far. Vote 92 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u66	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MP Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Boychev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Energy Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 are created. 7? 12: . (7) The access and/or transmission prices via a closed distribution network or a gas distribution network shall not be subject to validation by the Commission prior to their implementation by the relevant operator of a closed distribution or distribution network. (8) The closed distribution network operator shall apply access and/or transport prices across that network that are not higher than access and/or transmission prices through the distribution network of the operator whose licensing territory is excluded from the territory for which an activity licence has been issued. (9) The closed distribution network operator shall apply access and/or transport prices across that network that are not higher than access and/or transmission prices through the distribution network of the operator whose licensing territory is excluded from the territory for which an activity licence has been issued. (10) Where, in the case of the issue of an activity licence, the territory of that network is not excluded from the territory of an activity licence issued, the natural gas export licence, as well as in the case that a closed distribution network is not connected to another network, the operator of the closed distribution network shall apply access and/or transport prices across that network which are not higher than the highest access and/or transmission prices across any licensing territory. (11) Any consumer of a closed distribution or distribution network may request the Commission to review access and/or transmission prices that the relevant operator of a closed distribution or distribution network applies and to establish prices of that operator for a specified period. (12) After the expiry of the term under para. 11 The operator of the closed distribution or distribution network shall apply the rules under para. 7.. 10.... 10............................................................................. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created a new t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. distribution of electricity or natural gas in a closed distribution or closed distribution network; (b) in para. 5 is created t. 4a: 4a. the distribution of electricity in a closed distribution network; 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 are created. 13 and 14: For the territory of an industrial park or a geographically separate industrial establishment, where the activities or production process of the users of that network are integrated for certain technical reasons or for safety reasons, or where the distribution of electricity or natural gas is mainly carried out for the owner, network operator or related undertakings, a licence shall be issued for: 1. distribution of electricity in a closed distribution network; 2. distribution of natural gas in a closed distribution network. (14) A licence for distribution of electricity in a closed distribution network and a licence for distribution of natural gas in a closed distribution network shall be issued by the Commission under the terms and conditions of the ordinance under art. 60. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 44 is . (5) A licence for distribution of electricity in a closed distribution network and a licence for distribution of natural gas in a closed distribution network may be issued to the same person. 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 51a: Art. 51a. (1) The Commission shall, on its own initiative, initiate proceedings to amend a licence issued for the distribution of electricity, respectively, for the distribution of natural gas in the territory of which an application for the issue of a licence for the distribution of electricity in a closed distribution network is submitted, respectively, for a licence for the distribution of natural gas in a closed distribution network. (2) The Commission shall inform the licence holder in writing of the opening of the proceedings under para. 1 amending the licence for the distribution of electricity or natural gas. (3) The Commission shall amend an existing licence for the distribution of electricity, respectively an existing licence for the distribution of natural gas, excluding from its territory the territory for which an application for the issue of a licence for the distribution of electricity in a closed electricity distribution network is made, respectively, of a licence for the distribution of natural gas in a closed distribution network if the person who submitted the relevant application fulfils the conditions for carrying out the activity. (4) The Commission shall rule by one decision in the proceedings under para. 1 and on the application submitted for the issue of a licence for the distribution of electricity in a closed distribution network, respectively for the issue of a licence for the distribution of natural gas in a closed distribution network. (5) If the application under para. 1 shall not meet the conditions laid down in Article 1. 43, para. 13 and/or the person who submitted the application does not meet the conditions of art. 40, the Commission refuses to issue licences and terminates the proceedings. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, t. 5 after the words the electricity distribution network operator shall be commaed and the closed 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 88a: Art. 88a. (1) The distribution of electricity and the operation of closed distribution networks shall be carried out by operators of closed distribution networks licensed for the distribution of electricity in a closed distribution network. (2) The operator of a closed electricity distribution network shall have the rights and obligations of an electricity distribution network operator except those under art. Art. 90, Art. 104a, para. 3. (3) The closed distribution network operator shall not be entitled to distribute electricity for the supply of domestic customers, except in the case of non-systemic use of the network by a small number of domestic customers working on a labour or other relationship for a user of the closed distribution network and located on the territory of the closed distribution network. (4) The operation of closed distribution networks shall be carried out according to the rules of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the (5) Closed distribution networks shall be considered to be distribution networks. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92 is created. 6a: 6a. the operator of a closed electricity distribution network; 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95a, para. 1 after the words "94a," para. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100, para. 1 after the word the Union shall be replaced by a comma and after the word the distribution agents shall be added the closed electricity distributions. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101, para. 2 after the words the distribution networks and the operators of the closed distribution networks shall be added. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 after the word "Secretary', the "Secretary' shall be added; (b) in para. 2 after the words 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 116b: Art. 116b. (1) The transmission network operator, respectively an electricity distribution network operator, shall be obliged to join a closed distribution network. (2) A closed distribution network operator shall be obliged to join electricity producers and customers located on the territory of the closed distribution network. (3) The conditions and arrangements for the accession of the objects under para. 1 and 2 shall be governed by art. 116a, para. 2 and 3. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 para. 1 is amended as 1 The electricity supplied to final customers shall be measured with the means of commercial measurement property of the transmission network operator, the operator of the relevant electricity distribution or closed distribution network located up to or at the limit of the customer's property. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: (2) The distribution of natural gas and the operation of closed distribution networks shall be carried out by the operators of closed distribution networks which have received a licence under art. 39, para. 1, t. 8..................................................... 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 171. 2 is amended (2) The use of gas distribution networks and closed distribution networks shall be carried out in accordance with rules for the management of gas distribution networks adopted by the Committee on a proposal from gas distribution network operators and closed distribution network operators. 17. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 171a: Art. 171a. (1) The closed gas distribution network operator shall have the rights and obligations of a gas distribution network operator except those under art. 183b. (2) The operator of a closed distribution network shall not be entitled to distribute natural gas for the supply of domestic customers, except in the case of non-systemic use of the network of a small number of domestic customers working on a labour or other relationship for a user of the closed distribution network and located on the territory of the closed distribution network. (3) Closed distribution networks shall be considered gas distribution networks. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174 the Union is replaced by a comma, and after the word "gas distributions" is added. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175, para. 1 is created a new t. 2: "2." operators of closed gas distribution networks; 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180, para. 1 after the word "gas distribution', a closed gas distribution unit shall be added. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2 a comma shall be placed after the words the gas distribution network shall be added to each closed distribution network and shall be added to each closed distribution network. (b) in para. 3 after the words the gas distribution networks shall be commaed and the closed gas distribution networks added. 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 192 the words "gas transmission and distribution networks' shall be replaced by "gas transmission, gas distribution and closed gas distribution networks'. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) A new para shall be created. 3: . (3) The measurement of the amount of natural gas for customers connected to closed gas distribution networks shall be carried out with means of commercial measurement (b) The current para. 3, 4 and 5 become respectively. 4, 5 and 6. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 197, para. 1 after the word "gas distribution', the gas distribution system shall be added and the gas distribution system closed. 25. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 197a: Art. 197a. (1) The transmission network operator, respectively a distribution network operator, shall be obliged to join a closed distribution network. (2) A closed gas distribution network operator shall be obliged to join natural gas customers on the territory of the closed gas distribution network. (3) The accession of the objects under para. 1 and 2 shall be carried out under the conditions and by the order of the ordinance under art. 196, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 199, para. 1 after the word "Clients" a comma shall be placed and the subjects of closed gas distribution network operators shall be added. 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 220, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 195, para. The information referred to in paragraph 28. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) To be created t. 11b: "11b." the site is a site or sites located in a separate territory which has a spatial development plan or scheme defined as an industrial or industrial area. b) To be created t. 24f and 24g: It's 24 o'clock. A closed distribution network is a network that serves to distribute electricity in the territory of an industrial park or a geographically separate industrial establishment where the activities or production process of the users of that network are integrated for certain technical reasons or for safety reasons or where the distribution of electricity is mainly carried out for the owner, the network operator or related undertakings in the territory of the industrial park or a geographically separate industrial establishment. 24g. A closed gas distribution network is a network that serves to distribute natural gas in the territory of an industrial park or a geographically distinct industrial establishment where the activities or production process of users of that network are integrated for certain technical reasons or for safety reasons or where the distribution of natural gas is mainly carried out for the owner, the network operator or related undertakings in the territory of the industrial park or of a geographical unit. (c) create a t. 26b: "26b." "Industrial Park" is an industrial park listed in the register under art. 21, para. 1 of the Industrial Parks Act. (d) c. 34b: (aa) in the letter "supplier', after the words "supplier' is added to the letter "supplier' and a comma is placed; (bb) in point (b) after the words "persons', a gas distribution network operator shall be added "including a closed distribution network' and a comma shall be placed. New § 8, proposed by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... For the activity distribution of electricity and/or natural gas in a closed distribution network or gas distribution network in a geographically separate industrial establishment put into operation until 2000 may be issued licence under art. 39, para. 1, t. 8 of the Energy Act under special terms and conditions defined by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the regulation under art. 60 of the Energy Act. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, i.e. The words "The Register of Industrial Parks" under "The Register of Industrial Parks" shall be replaced by the Register under Article 8. 21, para. 1 out of. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 the words "Securities and settlements' shall be replaced by "Securities, settlements and industrial parks outside the boundaries of the settlements and settlements'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 after the words "Short Zones', a comma is added and an industrial park is added. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 111 is (4) For an industrial park which is outside the boundaries of settlements and settlements, a special detailed development plan of the industrial park shall be developed in accordance with the Industrial Parks Act when the park is entered in the register under art. 21, para. 1 of the Industrial Parks Act. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134, para. 1 is created a new t. 7. "7." There are conditions for establishing an industrial park within the meaning of the Industrial Parks Act. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205, t. 6 after the words for the construction of the company, industrial parks are added under the Industrial Parks Act and a comma is placed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, i.e. 2 is amended as follows: 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 is created. 6: * When building industrial parks under the Industrial Parks Act para. 1 shall not apply. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. Proposal for a new paragraph by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on Energy from Renewable Sources (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 t. Six is 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 are repealed. (b) paragraph 12 is repealed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 3 words for the amounts collected under art. 29, para. 1 and for their expenditure, as well as information..... are 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 are repealed; (b) in para. 8 sentence first the words "some of the requirements of para. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: In these cases, the words "in this case' shall be replaced by "in this case'; (c) in para. 11 words................................................................................. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 9 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u67	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the texts of the importer; the editorial proposals made by the Commission; the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the rejection of the text of the importer proposed by the Commission; and the creation of a new paragraph. They voted 92 MPs: 83, none, abstention 19. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. We continue with the next item of our work programme: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO RECOGNIZE THE COURT OF AUDITORS THE EXECUTION OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS FOR COMPLIANCE IN THE CROSSING AND USE OF THE LAW AGREEMENTS ON PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS BY The people's representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs are importing. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Ilieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Decision on the Award of the Court of Auditors carrying out an audit of compliance in the conclusion and implementation of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by "Montajs" EAD for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020, No 054-02-93, submitted by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs on 11 December 2020. At a meeting held on 14 January 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Court of Auditors: Tsvetan Tsvetkov, Chairman, and Toshko Todorov, Vice-President. In the reasons for the draft decision, importers point out that in 2018, the Council of Ministers decided to grant 500 million. lv. for urgent renovation of dams and for this purpose the capital of a state consolidation company is increased. In the adopted decision 414 dams are explicitly recorded, which urgently need to be repaired. Two more dams were added to this issue. It became clear later that the state consolidation company "EAD" has entrusted the renovation activities of its subsidiary "Montaj" EAD, and for this purpose it has provided the funds allocated to it by the decision of the Council of Ministers. According to the importers, it is not clear in what form the state consolidation company "EAD" has entrusted the construction activities to "Montaj" EAD, which also raises a number of questions. Has a clear preliminary assessment been made and are the requirements of the selection of "Montage" EAD for the implementation of the repair activities of the dams referred to in the decision of the Council of Ministers met? Does the company have the capacity to carry out that activity, technical and human resources needed? How is the quality of repairs ensured? Does the company use subcontractors and what criteria are used to select such subcontractors? Are the relevant number of offers exquisite when setting the same criteria to different companies in order to ensure that the contracting entity's interest is maintained? The methodology for assessing the offers submitted by whom have they been drawn up? In what part of the valuation methodologies is the burden on the price and how is the quality of performance guaranteed? What documents demonstrate quality of performance beyond the announced selection criteria? Are there any contracts in which anexes have been concluded and what are the amendments and additions to these contracts? Due to the refusal of a state-owned consolidation company (SJD) and Montagei (SJD) to provide clarity on the prices, implementation and absorption of the funds allocated, the importers propose that an audit be carried out by the Court of Auditors. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:........................... 20 MPs........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and adopt a draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors an audit of compliance in the conclusion and implementation of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by "Montaj" EAD for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020, No 054-02-93, submitted by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs on 11 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u69	Could you also present the Project for a solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u70	Project! DECISION on the award to the Court of Auditors of an audit of compliance in the conclusion and execution of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by "Montage" EAD for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED Instructs the Court of Auditors to audit compliance in the conclusion and execution of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by 14, para. 1, t. 6 of the Public Procurement Act and their implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u71	Thank you. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u72	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to award the Court of Auditors an audit of compliance in the conclusion and implementation of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by "Montajs" EAD for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020, No 054-02-93, submitted by Rumen Vassilev Gechev and a group of MPs on 11 December 2020. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 20 January 2021 examined and discussed the draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors' audit for compliance in the conclusion and implementation of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by "Montage" EAD for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020, No 054-02-93, submitted by Rumen Vasilev Gechev and a group of MPs on 11 December 2020. The meeting was attended by: Tsvetan Tsvetkov, Chairman of the Court of Auditors, and Toshko Todorov, Vice-President. On behalf of importers, the draft decision was submitted by the Member of the National Assembly. In 2018, the Council of Ministers granted 500 million. lv. for urgent renovation of dams, and for this purpose the capital of a state consolidation company is increased. The Commission later entrusted the renovation activities to the dams of its subsidiary.Montagei. To this end it provided the funds allocated to it by the Council of Ministers. It is not clear the form of an award to "Montaj" EAD. The attempts to obtain information on the capacity of the contractor company; on the guarantee of the completed activities; on the subcontractors used and how they were selected; on the offers submitted and the methodology for their assessment; whether anexes have been concluded; the absorption of funds and others remain without result. In this regard, it is proposed that the Court of Auditors carry out an audit of compliance in the conclusion and implementation of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by After a vote with results, 20 votes for the Court of Auditors, with no objection and abstention, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors an audit of compliance in the conclusion and execution of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by "Montaj" EAD for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020, No 054-02-93, submitted by Rumen Vassilev Gechev and a group of MPs on 11 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u73	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Statements? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote your proposed draft decision. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal that point 12 of today's agenda be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u75	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 90 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: A SECURITISATION COMPANY CLOSURE SECURITISATION COMPANY SECURITISATION COMPANY SECURITIES. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of our Boards to put to the vote the admission in the hall of: Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Hristina Penditcheva, State Expert in the Directorate of the Financial Markets and the Financial Supervision Commission: Maria Filipova, Vice-President, Head of the Investment Activity and Milen Milev, Head of the Department of Legal Supervision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u77	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 92 MPs: 87, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u78	The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Day 1st." General. "Day 1st." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3. In the case of a special investment purpose vehicle, the investment vehicle shall be considered as a special investment vehicle for the purposes of this Regulation. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Two. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5. "Chapter 2" - Establishment, licensing and management of a special investment purpose company. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6 as in para. 1 the word "only' is deleted; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9, as in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 165, t. 1, 2, t. 3, the proposal first and last shall be replaced by: 165, t. 1, t. The amount of the capital and the nominal value of the individual share, i.e. the amount of capital and the nominal value of the individual share, i.e. 1 at the beginning is added the presentation of the activity and the presentation of the activity. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11, such as: "1." In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the words "and the other instruments of incorporation' shall be deleted; (b) c. 5 after the word "supplied" is added "supplied" or "supplied." 2. In para. 5, t. 3 after the word "supplied" is added "supplied" or "supplied." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18, as in para. 5 words.............................................................................. 157c Art. 157c. 157d (and finally added) as well as its implementing acts. ? Chapter 3? Requirements for the activities of a special investment purpose company??? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22, such as: "1." In para. 3, p. 3 the words "more than" shall be replaced by "over." 2. In para. 6 sentence second, the words which they manage and represent the company shall be replaced by the words referred to in art. 10, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26, such as: "1." In para. 1 sentence 2 is amended as follows: "For the provision of bank loan obligations to a subsidiary under art. 28, para. 1 additional approval from the general meeting of the shareholders of the special investment purpose company is required. 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28, such as: "1." In para. 1 sentence second, the words "to acquire' shall be replaced by "to acquire'. 2. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 114, para. 10 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities 114, para. 10 of the same law. 3. In para. 8 the words................................................................................................... 114, para. 10 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities 114, para. 10 of the same law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30. "Chapter 4" "Disclosure of Information." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31. "Chapter 5" "Currentisation and termination of a special investment purpose company." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34. This is the sum of the total amount of assets that shall be reported in column 060 of the CR SA template. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Title Three. "Chapter 6" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. Under art. 35 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35: "Definition" Art. 35. (1) The securitisation company shall be a special purpose vehicle for the purposes of art. 2, p. 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402. (2) A securitisation company shall be established as a joint stock company for securitisation. (3) The company of a securitisation company shall include a special purpose company. (4) The person who is not a securitisation company shall not be entitled to use in his name, in his advertising or in any other activity, a securitisation company, a special purpose company, a securitisation company, or an abbreviation, a securitisation holding company or other equivalent terms and expressions in Bulgarian or foreign language, meaning activity as a securitisation company. (5) The securitisation company shall be obliged to separate its liabilities from the obligations of the originator and sponsor. Under art. 36 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: The exposure value of assets that are exposures to corporates shall be reported in this row. Art. 36. (1) The underlying exposures subject to securitisation shall not be subject to enforcement. (2) Up to 30 percent of the underlying exposures subject to securitisation may be subject to a judicial dispute, but only if no more than three years have passed since the moment of securitisation of the relevant asset. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38, as in para. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39: Other requirements Art. 39. For simplified, transparent and standardised securitisations, the originator, the original lender, the sponsor, the securitisation company and the TSO compliance shall apply the simplification, transparency and standardisation criteria for securitisation of asset-backed commercial securities, respectively for securitisation other than asset-backed commercial securities as defined in the European Banking Authority guidelines. scrubbing, licensing and management of a securitisation company. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40, as in para. 1 the word "only' is deleted; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46 as in para. 8 in the text before t. 1 words "al." 4 and 5 and 5 are replaced by.......................................................................................................... One and five. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47: "Securities of the securitisation company' shall be reported in this column. Art. 47. (1) An application shall be submitted to the Commission for the granting of an operating licence as a securitisation company to which they apply: 1. the statutes of the company; 2. the data on the subscribed and paid-up capital; 3. the data and other necessary documents for the members of the management and control body of the company, respectively for natural persons representing legal persons, members of the board of directors or prosecutors; 4. the prospectus, respectively the final document for the securities offered under art. Article 7 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402; 5. a list of the names or names and particulars of persons holding directly or indirectly 5 or more than 5 per cent of the applicant's voting shares or being able to exercise control over it and of the number of votes they hold; the persons submitting written declarations on the origin of the funds from which contributions against the subscribed shares have been made, including whether the funds have not been borrowed and the taxes paid by them in the last 5 years on a model approved by the Vice-President; 6. the policies, rules and procedures under art. 53. (2) Where the data and documents submitted are incomplete or additional information or evidence of the correctness of the data is required, the Vice-President shall send a message to the company and shall set a time limit for the removal of findings and discrepancies or for the submission of additional information and documents which may not be shorter than one month and longer than two months. (3) If the message under para. 2 shall not be accepted at the correspondence address indicated by the applicant, the time limit for their submission shall run from the disclosure of the communication on the Commission's website. The disclosure shall be certified by a protocol drawn up by officials appointed by order of the Vice-President. (4) The Commission shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President, decide on the application within one month of receipt of the application and, where additional information and documents have been requested, within one month of receipt, from the expiry of the period under para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48, as in para. 1, t. 4 after the word "supplied" is added "supplied" or "supplied." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51. "Chapter 8" "Requirements to the activities of a securitisation company." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52, as in para. 2 the words................................................................................. Paragraph 7 (2), para. Article 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 7 (2), para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54. "Chapter 9" "Spatial compliance agent." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55, as in para. 2 the words to which the data and documents defined with the.. are replaced by the..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57. "Day 4th " Forced Administrative Measures and Administrative Criminal Responsibility ". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Four. "Chapter 10" - Forced administrative measures. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64. "Chapter 11" "Administrative Punitive Responsibility." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65, as in para. 1, t. 2 the words "the last" shall be replaced by "the second" the words "the last" shall be replaced by "the second" the words "the last" shall be replaced by "the second" the words "the last" the words "the last" shall be replaced by "the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70. "Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1 by: "1." In point (a), point (a) is (a) in the (b) in the letter "b" the words "outside the country" shall be replaced by "outside the Republic of Bulgaria" shall be replaced by "outside the Republic of Bulgaria"; c) in the letter "in" the words "in" are replaced by "in" in the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; "supplied' is replaced by The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Within six months of the entry into force of this Act, the Financial Supervision Commission shall adopt its implementing regulations. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 5, and the word "The ones" shall be replaced by the ones started and unfinished. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 7, and the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 8, as in para. 2 the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, by: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "When an investment company or an investment company is replaced by "When an investment company or a service company is replaced'. 2. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 196 t. 7 is amended as follows: "7." the special investment purpose companies and securitisation companies under the Special Investment Purpose Company Act and the securitisation company; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, i.e. point 4 (d) is amended as follows: .) (c).................................................................. 1 the words..21 and 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, i.e. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to The Commission shall support the wording of Paragraph 17, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 is deleted; The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In the Insurance Code (promote, SG No. ...) in the Transitional and Final Provisions § 10 is repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm The Code of Social Security (promise, SG...) shall make the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: P.O. Box 76.A. For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/61, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. The word "Securitisation" shall be replaced by "investors" throughout the word "Securitisation" and "Securities" shall be replaced by "Investing in." Under § 20 a proposal has been made by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with Article 20. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. The law on credit institutions (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 is created t. 6: It's six. the powers to: (a) Article 29 (1) (e) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 laying down a common framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simplified, transparent and standardised securitisations and amending Directives 2009/65/EC, 2009/138/EC and 2011/61/EU and Regulations (EC) No 1060/2009 and (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 347/35 of 28 December 2017) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2017/2402', to comply with the requirements of art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402, where an institutional investor is a credit institution; (b) Article 29 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 for compliance with the requirements of art. 6 - 9 of that Regulation, where the sponsor is a credit institution; (c) Article 29 (3) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 for compliance with the requirements of art. 6 - 9 of that Regulation, where an originator or original creditor is a credit institution; (d) Article 29 (5) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 for compliance with the requirements of art. 18 - 27 of that Regulation where a sponsor or originator is a credit institution. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, para. 1 is created t. 12: ..12. policies, rules and procedures under art. 30 paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 where the bank is an originator, sponsor or original securitisation creditor and for the assessment and management of the risks arising from securitisation, including goodwill risks. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 7, p. 2 the words "outside the cases where it has already been provided' shall be replaced by "inclusive'; (b) the creation of para. 18: When a bank finds that, in its capacity as sponsor, originator, original creditor or institutional investor, its administrators or other employees of the bank have committed a breach of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402, the BNB may apply a measure under para. 2 or yes: 1. Forbidden temporarily to the originator or sponsor bank to notify under art. 27 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 that a securitisation complies with the requirements set out in art. Art. 19, art. 22 or art. 23 s 26 of the same Regulation; 2. prohibit the temporary holding of office as a member of the management or control body of the bank or of any other person believed to be responsible for the infringement. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 152b, para. 1 and 2 the words "or art. 33, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 33, para. 1 or 2 or Regulation (EU) 2017/2402. 5. In the additional provisions: (a) Paragraph 1 shall set up t. 58.. 62: "58." "Securities" is a transaction or scheme within the meaning of art. 2, p. 1 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402. 59. "Initiator" is a person within the meaning of art. 2, p. 3 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402. 60. "Sponsor" is a person within the meaning of art. 2, p. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402. 61. The first debtor is a person within the meaning of art. 2, p. 20 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402. 62. An institutional investor is a person within the meaning of art. 2, p. 12 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402. (b) in § 4: (aa) The current text becomes para. 1; (bb) The creation of para. 2: This law lays down measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 laying down a common framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simplified, transparent and standardised securitisations and amending Directives 2009/65/EC, 2009/138/EC and 2011/61/EU and Regulations (EC) No 1060/2009 and (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 347/35 of 28 December 2017) .?.......................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Colleagues, I am voting on the read texts by Mr. Boychev, starting from the name of the Law, going through all the texts to the text of the importer for § 21 inclusive. They voted 91 MPs: 84, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENCY. Importers are Vezhdi Rashidov and Toma Bikov, 17 February 2020. Mr. Bikov, would you like to introduce us to the Commission Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u80	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency No 154-01-16, submitted by the MPs Vezdi Rashidov and Toma Bikov on 17 February 2021. At a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 17 February 2021, a Draft Law on amendment and supplement of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency was discussed, No 154 01 16, submitted by the MPs Vecdi Rashidov and Toma Bikov on 17 February 2021. The meeting was attended by: Bulgarian Telegraph Agency On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Mr. Toma Bikov. Under the current legal framework, the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency distributes information and ensures the receipt of information primarily for payment. The Bill aims to distribute information of public interest free of charge. Also BTA to distribute its own products free of charge with free access to all persons in Bulgaria and abroad. In order to ensure the free dissemination of information and free access to information through BTA products, it is necessary to approve an additional transfer under the BTA budget for 2021 in accordance with art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act. The reasons state that the most important result of this legislative change will be the stronger countering of false news. The opening of free access to BTA information products will allow Bulgaria to expand the Agency's capabilities by continuing to develop it not only as a national but also as a regional agency. The opinion received by the Ministry of Finance informed that the necessary funding from the State budget for 2021 could be provided through restructuring of other costs and transfers. People's representatives Vezdi Rashidov, Anastas Popdimitrov and Maria Tsvetkova took part in the discussion as well as the Director-General of BTA. On behalf of the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria, a question was asked where the possibility of restructuring other costs and transfers is expected in a possible, upcoming update of the budget. The representative of the Ministry of Finance said that in the state budget there are estimated funds for newly established structures that have not started operations since 1 January this year, and as a result of these savings funds will be provided to BTA if the Bill is adopted, and this will be possible in 2021. Following a vote, the MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media with 12.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. I'm opening the debate. I don't see any speeches, colleagues. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the first reading, Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, No 154-01-16, submitted by Vecdi Rashidov and Toma Bikov on 17 February 2021. Vote 81 MPs: 76, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u82	Madam President, if I may, two procedures. One procedure shall be based on art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Mr. Kiril Valchev, Director General of BTA to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u83	Okay. First, let's vote on this procedure for Mr. Valchev's admission to the Chamber. Vote 75 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Valchev to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u84	And the second procedure, because there are no proposals between first and second readings, to vote on the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 77 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u86	The Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency (BTA) was amended and supplemented by the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency (BTA) § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." publish, without charge, official acts and communications of their activities in the relevant quality of: (a) the President and Vice-President of the Republic of Bulgaria; (b) the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria; (c) the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria; (d) the President of the Constitutional Court; (e) the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation; (f) the President of the Supreme Administrative Court; (g) the Prosecutor General; (h) Members of the National Assembly; (i) persons representing budgetary organisations within the meaning of § 1, point (c) 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Public Finance Act; (k) persons representing at national level: (aa) non-profit legal entities; (bb) institutions of religious communities; (vc) political parties; (d) representative organisations of employers and employees at national level; (l) the Chairs of the People's Chitalishtes; (m) the persons representing: (aa) organizations of Bulgarians outside the Republic of Bulgaria whose activities are aimed at preserving and developing the Bulgarian linguistic, cultural and religious tradition; (bb) institutions of the European Union and international organisations of which the Republic of Bulgaria cooperates or cooperates with them, as well as their official offices in the Republic of Bulgaria; (n) other persons representing organisations carrying out activities under special protection and encouragement by the State under the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency considered that the official acts and communications of their activities comply with the requirements of para. 3 and the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency has the opportunity to distribute them. 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." ensure free access to its own information products as exceptions for fair access are eligible for: (a) products containing works subject to protected rights of third parties; (b) specialised procurement information products; c) archive material after expiry of a period and with order of access, which shall be determined by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency; (d) Works of the publishing, printing and production activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. 3. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) The texts and communications under para. 1 must be of public interest and may not contain information of a commercial nature which aims to direct or indirect advertising of the activity of natural or legal persons, goods or services, and should not contradict the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. § 2. Article 7, para. 1 is amended as follows: (1) The Bulgarian Telegraph Agency shall be entitled to receive and disseminate the necessary information from all budgetary organisations within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Public Finance Act, if the information does not contain any secret provided by law. § 3. Article 8 is amended as follows: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. They're creating an al. 2, para. 3 and para. 4. (2) The Bulgarian Telegraph Agency shall be obliged to store the information it publishes for a period of not less than 3 (three) months from the day of its distribution. (3) In case in the term under para. 2 a request for a reply or a claim is filed against the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the information shall be kept until the case is closed. (4) A person who claims to have been affected in information of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency shall have the right to access the relevant archive and a copy of the information made on its behalf. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 t. 3 shall be completed as "3." precise reproduction of public statements, as well as the acts and communications that the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency distributes freely and free of charge under this law. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 are created new t. 10, t. 11 and so on. 12: ..10. lays down the form and other requirements for acts and communications that the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency distributes freely and free of charge under this Law; 11. validates the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency; 12. lays down the time limits for the backup of the information products and the order for access to the archive materials of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. § 6. Article 20, para. 1, t. 2 point (s) is amended as follows: (a) sale of information and other products for which it is not obliged to provide free access; (b) Transitional and final provisions § 7. The Bulgarian Telegraph Agency provides free distribution of messages and free access to its own information products under the conditions of this law within one year from the entry into force of this law. Within the same time limit, the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency establishes the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and lays down the form and other requirements for the acts and communications that the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency distributes freely and free of charge under this law, as well as the time limits for the backup of the information products and the order for access to the archive materials of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. § 8. The necessary funds for 2021 to provide financial support for the free distribution of acts and communications and free access to information through products of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency under this Law shall be approved as an additional transfer under the budget of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for 2021 under Article 2. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act on a proposal from the Deputy Prime Minister with functions in the field of culture. § 9. The activities of system integration within the meaning of art. 7c of the Law on Electronic Governance in the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency can be implemented in accordance with § 45 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance (promised in the Official Journal. 94 of 2019, in force from 29.11.2019, dop., p. 102 of 2019, in force from 29.11.2019)
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u87	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the just read texts from the name of the Law to § 9 including, by importer. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: PROJECT OF THE GENERALATION DECISION OF STATE MONEARY PRESSURES TO THE BULGARIAN STATE AND THE NATION Here you are, Mr. Bikov, to brief us on the report and on the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u88	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision on the award of state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 102-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2021. At a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 18 February 2021, a draft decision on granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation was discussed, No 102-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2021. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov The draft decision was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov. The draft decision is based on art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Persons for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. The law regulates state monetary prizes for special merit to be: life, periodical and one-off. By Decision No 90 of 3 February 2021, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to grant state awards for a period of 3 years for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation of 65 persons amounting to BGN 500. And 350 leva. for their outstanding achievements and for their overall contribution to the field of culture. On 4 February the Culture and Media Committee sent a letter to the Ministry of Culture to update the list of awards persons in relation to § 6a of the Law on Awards for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation. As a result, the Council of Ministers, by Decision No 119 of 12 February 2021, withdrew its proposal to the National Assembly for the persons referred to in paragraph 1. 5 and 30 of the list of winners, which is now from 63 people to deserved Bulgarian artists, winners of awards at the Golden Orpheus festival. Of them 40 persons in the amount of 500 BGN. and 23 persons in the amount of BGN 350. During the discussion the MPs Vecdi Rashidov, Krasimir Velchev, Nona Yotova and Anastas Popdimitrov raised questions about: the criteria for proposals for awards; the different amount of the prizes; are other proposals for awards envisaged; the composition of the committee for assessment of the proposals for awards made. As a result of a unanimous vote, the Committee on Culture and Media proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision to award state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian state and nation, No 142-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Mrs. Milkova, will you introduce us to the draft decision? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u90	Madam President, honourable Members! "Project" DECISION granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Individuals for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation HAS DECIDED 1. Grants a state monetary award for a term of three years for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation of: 1. Alexander Alexandrov Kiprov in a size of 500 BGN. 2. Alexander Dimitrov Petrov in a size of 500 BGN. 3. Annie Varbanova Varbanova in the amount of BGN 500. 4. Asen Konstantinov Dragnev in the amount of BGN 500 5. Atanas Nedyalkov Kosev in the amount of BGN 500. 6. Bogdana Ivanova Karadocheva-Dimitrova in a size of 500 BGN. 7. Vanya Kostova Kostova in a size of 500 BGN. 8. Vasil Mihailov Naydenov in the amount of BGN 500. 9. Veselin Marinov Todorov in the amount of 350 BGN. 10. Vladimir Todorov Zahariev in the amount of 350 BGN. 11. Vladimir Totev Totev in the amount of BGN 500. 12. Genoveva Kirilova Naydenova in the amount of BGN 500. 13. Gencho Dimitrov Vatovski in the amount of 350 BGN. 14. Gergan Todorov Gerganov in the amount of 350 BGN. 15. Georgi Kostov Georgiev in the amount of BGN 500 16. Georgi Georgiev Stanchev in a size of 350 BGN. 17. Georgi Mihaylov Markov in the amount of BGN 500. 18. Georgi Tsankov Denkov in a size of 350 BGN. 19. Dariana Bogomilova Genova in the size of 500 BGN. 20. Diana Anastasova Dafova "Dafova" in a size of 350 BGN. 21. Ekaterina Asenova Mihailova in the amount of BGN 500. 22. Etienne Herzl Levy in the amount of BGN 350. 23. Zhivko Slavov Kolev in size 500 BGN. 24. Zdravko Tsokov Zhelyazkov in a size of 500 BGN. 25. Ivan Alexandrov Pendachanski in the amount of 350 BGN. 26. Ivan Stefanov Tenev in the amount of BGN 500 27. Iliya Angelov Minkov in the amount of 500 BGN. 28. Ilija Ivanov Karayanev in the amount of BGN 500. 29. Yordan Petrov Karadzhov in the amount of 350 BGN. 30. Yordanka Ivanova Hristova in the amount of BGN 500. 31. Kamelia Kirilova Todorova in the amount of BGN 500. 32. Kiril Kirilov Marichkov in the amount of BGN 500. 33. Konstantin Hristov Markov in the amount of BGN 500. 34. Kristina Dimitrova Dimitrova in a size of 350 BGN. 35. Christian Atanasov Boyadzhiev in the amount of BGN 500. 36. Krum Lubomirov Kalayev in a size of 500 BGN. 37. Lyubomir Alexandrov Georgiev in the amount of BGN 500 38. Margarita Nikolova Chranova-Boycheva in a size of 500 BGN. 39. Margarita Stoyanova Radinska in the size of 350 BGN. 40. Margreta Ivanova Nikolova in the amount of BGN 500. 41. Marika Nikolova Ivanova in the amount of BGN 500 42. Mimi Ivanova Pislinska in the amount of 350 BGN. 43. Mitko Genchev Shterev in the amount of 500 BGN. 44. Mihail Lubomirov Yonchev in the amount of 350 BGN. 45. Mustafa Arifov Chaushev in the amount of BGN 350. 46. Nayden Stanev Valchev in a size of 500 BGN. 47. Nedyalko Asenov Yordanov, BGN 500 48. Nelly Markova Rangelova in the amount of BGN 500 49. Orlin Alexandrov Goranov in the amount of BGN 500 50. Panayot Dimitrov Panayotov in the amount of BGN 500. 51. Peyo Todorov Peev in the amount of BGN 500. 52. Petko Georgiev Petkov in a size of 350 BGN. 53. Petar Asenov Tsankov in the amount of BGN 500 54. Petar Kirilov Anastasov in the amount of BGN 500. 55. Petya Kostadinova Buyuklieva-Nikiforova in the amount of BGN 500. 56. Developed by Petrov Popov in the amount of 350 BGN. 57. Rumen Spasov Soushilov in the amount of 350 BGN. 58. Svetomir Dimitrov Tsotsorkov in a size of 350 BGN. 59. Stanislav Yordanov Slanev in a size of 350 BGN. 60. Stefan Georgiev Diomov in the amount of BGN 500 61. Stefan Mihailov Dimitrov in a size of 500 BGN. 62. Stefka Ivanova Berova in a size of 350 BGN. 63. Stefka Melkon Onikyan in a size of 350 BGN. 64. Haygashod Azad Agasyan. in the amount of BGN 500. 65. Hristo Vassilev Lambrev in a size of 350 BGN. The awards are for their outstanding achievements and for their overall contribution to culture. The implementation of the Decision of the Minister of Culture shall be delegated.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Milkova. Colleagues, I give the floor for speeches. Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm gonna say something that's gonna look a lot like what I said when we voted pensions for the artists. There's been a much bigger scandal in society here. Of course, it was about the criteria why one is given 300, why another 500? What is this committee, mysterious, in the Ministry of Culture that no one knows about? I think as long as there is no state policy on people of art, on what happens when they are already some age, until then there will be this chaos some will be dissatisfied, because there are people who do not enter these lists at all, there are, as you can see, some different rewards. Now I've been listening to exactly how much and I can't figure out what the criteria are for giving one person 300 to another 500? That is what I said in the Commission, and my opinion is that there should be a comprehensive state policy on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Popdimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I take the floor to express my outrage that such a wonderful occasion the award of some distinguished artists has become a huge scandal in our society, crystalizes, has gone beyond the audiences and groups of artists and has climbed on the Bulgarian screens, gained popularity, has become unpleasant and has even led to the disruption of the relationships of some of these colleagues. What kind of criterion is a participant in the Golden Orpheus? And all who are proposed are participants in the Golden Orpheus? No! For example, Adamo, Philip Kirkorov, Alla Pugachova, Riki has been entrusted, Muslim Magomaev, Al Bano and Romina Power, 20 more such names. Are we gonna reward them? Alla Pugachova brings the big prize. Why don't we give her 300 leva? And her? It doesn't make sense to subtract one and the other one doesn't. On that note... [[Reply from the OP: "They are not Bulgarians. "]] I am not illiterate and when I read the name, I see that they are not Bulgarians. However, thank you for your information. In this regard, I have even a specific question to the President of the Committee on Culture and Media in our Parliament. I want to ask him: why did you allow the Ministry of Culture to send some lists that turn out to be false, then replace them with others, where it turns out that half of the people match, then with a third, which turned out to be missing, and others are gone? And in all that time without any clear criterion, neither for the cause nor for the size of the so-called prize. In this regard, Mr. Rashidov, I really want to ask you: was there no way that all this madness, this whole scandal, could be avoided? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Rashidov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u96	Happy birthday, Madame Chairman. If you'll allow me, I'll address my colleagues as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u97	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u98	Colleagues, first let me thank my colleagues on the left. They had a really reasonable replicating when we discussed these things in the Commission. Yes, of course, there's a scandal, it's not a secret, we're all witnessing it. What I want to thank them for, however, ended up behind the artists themselves. Because artists don't have any faults, but they just created an opportunity to really have such a problem. Of course, we have debated that 60 people are not all of the Golden Orpheus. We did not understand why the Golden Orpheus, although a balance was more useful for Bulgarian artists and perhaps a more peaceful way not to create such unrest. What I will support my fellow Members on the left, yes, one must, of course, be careful when there is a concept. The whole life of one Kiril Marichkov, with whom we grew up, or one Stefan Dimitrov, or Bogdana Karadocheva, Vasil Naydenov But what's good, and we've come to a good end, is that artists still have one small opportunity, and it doesn't matter that there was a scandal, and I think that these artists, having this little opportunity, should get their benefits, because, I said it and I'll say it again: the pandemic limited the opportunities of the economy, in Europe, I follow them, all budgets are built up, including culture. What is good, what the government did and accepted almost finally, of course, is that the unprecedented 41 million went to the cinema in a severe pandemic and crisis. Yes, the good thing is that wonderful Bulgarian artists should receive some aid because the pandemic did not pass anyone. I hope that the next parliament will have a clearer policy of handing out these awards, not only because of the scandal, because we received them and I presented them to the Commission letters from the Union of Artists, letters from the Union of Writers, letters from the Union of composers, letters from the Balletists. This is what makes us, if there is also a small mistake, to be more sensible next time and to apply to your proposal, we need a clearer concept in order to be able to respect our wonderful talents and artists. So today I suggest that we do not harm and punish the artists themselves, let us accept the criticisms that are being made, as decent people, and indeed in this severe pandemic, at least at the end of this Parliament, to allow artists to live a little better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I vote on the draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Guys, we've got one more point left. Procedure Mrs. Alexandrova. You're gonna surprise us?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Please, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the vote a reduction of the period of the proposals between the first and second votes of five days, first, of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 102-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 February 2021, adopted on 24 February 2021 on the first vote; and second, of the Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2021, also adopted on 24 February 2021 on the first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u101	I'll vote them separately. First, the procedure for reducing the period of five days of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Vote 75 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the second procedural proposal for the Civil Procedure Code again to reduce the period between first and second readings. Vote 75 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, half an hour's rest. [[GERB lines.]] 15 minutes? [[GERB lines.]] I'm withdrawing my offer of rest, colleagues. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because we have another point. [[Applause from GERB]] I can see the gym wants us to move on. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RECOGNITION OF PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS. Mrs. Damyanova will introduce us to the Second Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u102	Thank you, Madam President. "Report on the second vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021, adopted on the first vote on 4 February 2021. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law for recognition of professional qualifications (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. Proposal of the National Representative Venka Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7a, para. 2 the words "common interest' shall be replaced by "public interest'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Venka Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Part Two, art. is created. 23 a.m., 23 a.m., Art. 23a. (1) Before introducing new or amending existing provisions in a legal, regulatory or administrative act limiting the exercise or access to a regulated profession, the recognition authority shall assess proportionality in accordance with the rules laid down in that law. (2) The scope of the assessment under para. 1 shall be proportionate to the nature, content and effect of the provisions to be introduced. (3) Each of the provisions of para. 1 shall be accompanied by a detailed explanation allowing to assess compliance with the principle of proportionality. (4) The considerations for which a provision is considered justified and proportionate shall be supported by qualitative and, where possible and appropriate, quantitative elements. (5) The Recognition Authority shall ensure that the assessment under para. 1 shall be carried out in an objective and independent manner. (6) Following the adoption of the new or amended provisions in the laws, regulations or administrative acts restricting the exercise or access to a regulated profession, the recognition authority shall monitor their compliance with the principle of proportionality where it duly takes into account any new circumstances that occurred after the adoption of the relevant provisions. (7) Where specific requirements concerning the regulation of a profession are laid down in a separate act of the European Union and that act does not provide for Member States to choose the exact way in which they are to be introduced into their national legislation, the rules for the assessment of proportionality laid down in that law shall not apply. Art. 23b. When adopting new or amending existing provisions in a legal, regulatory or administrative act restricting the exercise or access to a regulated profession, the recognition authority shall ensure that such provisions do not introduce direct or indirect discrimination based on nationality or on a place of residence. Art. 23c. (1) The Recognition Authority shall ensure that the provisions in a legal, regulatory or administrative act restricting the exercise or access to a regulated profession which it intends to introduce and the amendments it intends to submit to the provisions in force are justified by public interest objectives. (2) The Recognition Authority shall examine in particular whether the provisions of para. 1 are objectively justified on grounds relating to public policy, public security or public health, or on imperative grounds of public interest. (3) The considerations of a purely economic nature or purely administrative considerations shall not constitute imperative reasons of public interest which justify limiting the exercise or access to a regulated profession. Art. 23 years old. (1) The Recognition Authority shall ensure that the provisions in a legislative, regulatory or administrative act restricting the exercise or access to a regulated profession which it introduces and that the amendments it makes to the provisions in force are appropriate to ensure that the intended objective is achieved and does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve that objective. (2) To this end, before the adoption of the provisions of para. 1 The recognition authority shall consider: 1. the nature of the risks associated with the objectives identified in the public interest, in particular the risks to the recipients of services, including consumers, to professionals or to third parties; 2. whether the existing rules of a special or more general nature, such as those contained in the law on product safety or consumer protection, are insufficient to achieve the intended objective; 3. the appropriateness of the provision as regards how appropriate it is to achieve the intended objective and the extent to which it actually reflects that objective in a consistent and systematic manner and whether it removes the identified risks in a similar manner as comparable activities; 4. the impact on the free movement of people and services in the European Union, on the choice of consumers and on the quality of the service provided; 5. the possibility of using less restrictive means to achieve the objective of public interest; 6. the effects of the new or amended provisions where they are combined with other provisions limiting access to the profession or the pursuit of the profession and in particular how the new or amended provisions combined with the other requirements contribute to the achievement of the same objective of public interest and whether they are necessary to achieve it. (3) The recognition authority shall also consider the following elements where they are relevant to the nature and content of the provision to be introduced or amended: 1. the relationship between the scope of activities involving a profession or which are reserved for it and the required professional qualification; 2. the relationship between the complexity of the tasks concerned and the need for those carrying out them to have certain professional qualifications, in particular with regard to the level, nature and duration of the training or experience required; 3. the possibility of obtaining professional qualifications in other ways; 4. whether and why the activities reserved for certain professions can or cannot be shared with other professions; 5. the degree of autonomy in the exercise of the regulated profession and the impact of the rules on organisation and supervision as regards the achievement of the intended objective, in particular where the activities related to the regulated profession are exercised under the supervision of a qualified professional who retains his responsibility; 6. the development of science and technology, which can effectively reduce or increase asymmetry in the availability of information among professionals and consumers. (4) For the purposes of para. 2, p. 5 where the provisions are justified only for consumer protection reasons and where the risks identified are limited to the relationship between the professional and the consumer and therefore do not adversely affect third parties, the recognition authority shall assess in particular whether the objective can be achieved by means of measures that are less restrictive than the maintenance of certain professional activities. (5) For the purposes of para. 2, p. 6 The recognition authority shall assess the effects of the new or amended provision in combination with one or more requirements, taking into account the fact that these effects may be both positive and negative, and in particular the following elements: 1. preserved activities, protected professional title or any other form of regulation within the meaning of § 1 and § 2a of the additional provisions; 2. obligations for fulfilling requirements for continuous professional development; 3. rules relating to the organisation of the profession, professional ethics and supervision; 4. compulsory membership of a professional organisation or body, registration or authorisation regimes, in particular where these requirements imply the holding of a particular professional qualification; 5. quantitative restrictions, in particular requirements limiting the number of authorisations for the exercise of the profession or establishing a minimum or maximum number of employees, managers or representatives having certain professional qualifications; 6. requirements for a specific legal form or requirements relating to the holding or management of a company to the extent to which those requirements are directly related to the exercise of the regulated profession; 7. territorial restrictions, including where the profession is regulated in parts of the territory of the country in a way other than the way it is regulated in other parts; 8. requirements limiting the exercise of a regulated profession jointly or within a partnership, as well as rules on incompatibility; 9. requirements for insurance cover or other means of individual or collective protection in the field of professional responsibility; 10. requirements for knowledge of languages to the extent necessary for the exercise of the profession; 11. requirements for fixed minimum and/or maximum remuneration; 12. requirements regarding advertising. (6) Before introducing new or amending existing provisions, the Recognition Authority shall also ensure compliance with the principle of proportionality of the special requirements relating to the provision of services on a provisional and random basis as provided for in Part Two of this Act, including: 1. automatic temporary registration or formal membership of a professional organisation or body; 2. a declaration which shall be submitted in advance pursuant to art. 13, para. 1, documents required under art. 13, para. 2, or any other equivalent requirement; 3. payment of any fees necessary for administrative procedures relating to the exercise or access to a regulated profession that the service provider owes. (7) The provisions of para. 6 shall not apply to measures designed to ensure compliance with the applicable terms and conditions of employment that Member States apply in accordance with European Union law. (8) Where provisions concern the regulation of healthcare professions and affect patient safety, the recognition authority shall take into account the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of human health. Art. 23e. (1) The Recognition Authority shall, by appropriate means, provide access to information to citizens, recipients of services and other interested parties, including those who do not exercise the profession, before introducing new or amending existing provisions in a legal, regulatory or administrative act restricting the exercise or access to a regulated profession. (2) The recognition body shall adequately ensure that all relevant stakeholders are involved and shall enable them to express their views. Where applicable and appropriate, the Recognition Authority shall conduct public consultations in accordance with the Law on Legislative Acts, Administrative Procedure Code and other applicable laws. Art. 23f. (1) Recognition authorities shall take the necessary measures to promote the mutual exchange of information with the competent authorities of other Member States on the particular way in which they regulate a profession or on the effects of such regulation. (2) The recognition bodies shall communicate to the European Commission and enter into the database of regulated professions under art. 59 (1) of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications, the provisions limiting the exercise or access to a regulated profession and the grounds for which those provisions are deemed justified and proportionate. (3) The recognition authorities and other interested parties may submit comments to the European Commission or to the Member State which communicated the provisions and considerations for which they are considered justified and proportionate. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9, and in it shall be replaced by the text before that. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. According to § 11, there is a proposal of the MP Venka Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 3: "3." the theoretical training was carried out by health and other competent persons at universities, higher education institutions recognised as equivalent or in vocational schools or through vocational training programmes for nurses; 2. Previously on "T." 3 becomes t. 4 and is amended as follows: "4." the clinical training was carried out in hospital care facilities or other medical facilities under the supervision of teaching nurses and with the participation of other qualified specialists, resulting in training nurses acquiring skills: (a) as members of a team and in direct contact with healthy or sick persons and/or communities, to organise, provide and evaluate the required comprehensive healthcare based on the knowledge, skills and competences they have mastered; (b) to work as a team, to lead a team and to organise comprehensive healthcare, including health training for individuals and small groups within medical/health establishments or in the community; (c) to assume the responsibilities associated with nurse care by participating in the activities of the relevant unit suitable for their training; 3. Previously on "T." 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MP Venka Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected. According to § 14, there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs from the National The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, in which the words............................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. According to § 20, there is a proposal of the MP Venka Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. point 20 is amended as follows: It's 20. "Imperial considerations in the public interest' are the maintenance of the financial balance of the social security system, consumer protection, service recipients and workers, ensuring good administration, ensuring the integrity of trade transactions, combating fraud and preventing tax evasion and tax evasion, preserving the effectiveness of fiscal supervision, transport safety, environmental and urban protection, animal health, intellectual property, protection and protection of national historical and cultural heritage, social policy objectives, cultural policy objectives and considerations recognised as such in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 2. They're creating a t. 24 - 26: It's 24 o'clock. The activities of dental medicine are the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of anomalies and diseases of teeth, mouth, jaws and surrounding tissues. 25. The term "Protected professional title" means a form of regulation of a profession in which the use of a title in relation to a professional activity or a set of professional activities is directly or indirectly bound by laws, regulations or administrative provisions with the possession of a particular professional qualification and where the misuse of that title is subject to sanctions. 26. "Saved activities' is a form of regulation of a profession where access to a professional activity or a set of professional activities is directly or indirectly reserved under laws, regulations or administrative provisions for regulated persons holding a certain professional qualification, including where the activity is shared with other regulated professions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. Proposal of the National Representative Venka Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish an additional provision. Under § 22, there is a proposal of the MP Venka Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss This law introduces the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the verification of proportionality before the adoption of new regulation of professions (OJ L 173/25 of 9 July 2018). and requirements of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications (OB, L 255/22 of 30 September 2005) .?.......................................................................................................... Proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the "Transitional and Final Provisions'. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... In the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. (c) Paragraph 3b shall be inserted in the additional provisions: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) Academic positions under this law may be opened in the scientific groups of museums under art. 28, para. 4 of the Cultural Heritage Act. (2) The procedures for taking up academic positions under para. 1 shall be held under the terms and conditions of this Law by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the corresponding academic position shall be taken on employment in the scientific group of the museum concerned. Proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24: .................................................................................. The persons who, at the entry into force of this Act, hold academic positions in employment in scientific groups of museums under art. 28, para. 4 of the Cultural Heritage Act, are entitled to be entered in the register under art. 2a of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Dear Mr President, I would like to make a technical version in § 1 at the end of the text which restricts the access to or the exercise of regulated undertakings. This is in line with the editorials in the text that are made further.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-25.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're starting a vote. First, I put to the vote the editorial amendment in § 1, proposed by the MP Milena Damyanova. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Now I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs. Vote 88 MPs: 3 against 74, abstention 11. Mr. Mihailov's offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts proposed by the Commission together with the editorial amendment adopted in § 1. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. I will introduce you to parliamentary control reports on Friday 26 February 2021: 1. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MPs Ercan Ebatin and Sevim Ali; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 2. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer a question from the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question written by the National Representative Georgi Alexandrov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to three questions with written answer from the MPs Yavor Bojankov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Violeta Zhelev; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to three questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Alexandrov; Krasen Krastev; and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Julian Angelov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to two questions from the National Representative Maria Tsvetkova; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to a question by the National Representative Violeta Jeleva. Due to an urgent commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev will not participate. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, Justice Minister Desislava Ahladova will not participate. The next regular plenary session on 26 February 2021 shall be held at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
