ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. National Assembly Work Programme for 4 August 2021: There is no proposal from the parliamentary group. It's under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "1." By GERB-SDS: Draft decision to establish a Temporary Commission to clarify all facts and circumstances for the implementation of the SRS by the Ministry of Interior in relation to Bulgarian citizens participating in the election campaign and election process for the 46th National Assembly. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. There is no proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 2. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria: Draft decision for submission of a report by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers - Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs. Proposals from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Stand up BG! We're coming! 3. Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The Committee for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 4. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning the actions and omissions of the competent Bulgarian authorities in relation to the sanctions imposed on Bulgarian natural and legal persons by the Office for the Control of Foreign Assets (OFAC) of the United States Ministry of Finance on the basis of the Global Law on Liability of Human Rights. Importers - Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs. 5. Hearing of the President and the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the consideration and validation of the business plans of the water operators and the formation of prices of water supply and sewerage services through the method of the upper limit of prices. 6. Hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Georgi Todorov on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the concession at Sofia Airport. Importer Ivaylo Mirchev. 7. Hearing of the Minister of Energy Andrey Zhivkov on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the legal basis and the reasons for the release of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding EAD. 8. Hearing of the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency Alexander Dunchev on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the management of hunting farms, hunting bases and hunting concessions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers "Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs. 9. Draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities in the territory of the protected territory................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. 10. Hearing of the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov and the Chairman of the Bureau for Control of the SRS on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly concerning statements of illegal wiretapping of politicians and citizens by the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. 11. Parliamentary control under art. 107a of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly 12. Parliamentary control under art. 95 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Stoycho Katsarov's hearing did not include him in the program, as he applied for a paid annual leave. Regarding proposals received by Desislava Atanasova and Anna Alexandrova, they are identical for inclusion as a point of the Report of the National Bureau of Control of the SRS on the activities carried out in 2020. The proposal is inadmissible under the Rules of Procedure. The report has been submitted to the previous parliament. At the Conference of Presidents, we have decided that all reports which have been submitted to a legal requirement should be distributed following the formation of the relevant committees and to start looking at them in the appropriate order by submitting reports by committees and draft decisions. With regard to the proposal for the Kolokita (Kolokita) of Zhecho Stankov and a group of MPs, it is already included in the Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u3	And just get it over with before we vote on the program. There is also a proposal from Dessislava Atanasova under art. 53, para. Eight of the subs, it's already included in the program. Two proposals have been submitted from Maya Manolova as well. It has no right as a Member of the National Assembly to submit a proposal, so it is inadmissible for a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. There are no committees, you know, there are public consultations currently under the rules in force, so the procedure has not been exhausted or the deadlines have expired. And a second proposal is from it.. for a report by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Also in accordance with art. 92 of the Rules of Procedure have the request to be from a board or at least 48 Members of Parliament, so that again and this proposal is inadmissible. We are going to vote on the Program for the Work of the National Assembly from this point. 3 to t. 12, as I read them to you, as the first two points are not subject to vote. Vote 215 MPs: for 199, no objection, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Mr. Balabanov, do you want me to read the bill and then I'll give you the floor? Draft and draft resolutions from 28 July to 3 August 2021: A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importers. "Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. A bill to amend and supplement the Health Act. The representatives of the National Assembly Alexander Simidchiev, Tanya Koycheva, Atanas Slavov and Nadezhda Yordanova. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act. The representatives of the National Assembly Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The committee for the preparation of the Draft Rules for the Organization and Activities of the 46th National Assembly. Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on Value Added Tax "The People's Representatives Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education "Cornelia Ninova" MPs and a group of MPs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Taxes on Incomes of Natural Persons "Cornelia Ninova" and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021. Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. A bill to supplement the Value Added Tax Act. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning the actions and omissions of the competent Bulgarian authorities in relation to the sanctions imposed on Bulgarian natural and legal persons by the Office for the Control of Foreign Assets of the United States Ministry of Finance on the basis of the Global Law Importers - Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs. Draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities in the territory of the protected territory................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. Importer Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology "Zürich "Swiss," Federal Polytechnic Institute in Lausanne, Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski" and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Decision on the determination of the KEWRC's report on the implementation of the business plans of the water operators for the period 2017 - 2020 and the approval of their business plans for 2022 - 2026. Report on the implementation of the privatization and post-privatization control process before the period 1 January 31 December 2020. Importer "The Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. Here you go, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the Political Party, there is such a people and we are making a procedural proposal today's plenary session to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio because, colleagues, today is extremely important. Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u5	Thank you. Please vote on the proposal so made. Vote 181 MPs: 142 against 8, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Please activate BNT and BNR cameras. Here you are, Mr. Stanev. For a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u6	Honourable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! After the convening of the National Assembly on 21 July 2021, the Political Party has undertaken all necessary and transparent actions to present its priorities and sectoral policies with potential partners and ideologically close political parties. We held meetings of expert groups with representatives of the Democratic Bulgaria. We're coming!...and BSP for Bulgaria. A number of consultations in the area of justice, economics, finance, health, social policy, education and agriculture were held by sectors previously requested and wished by them. After the meetings, it can be said that in a number of sectors we have achieved complete understanding and serious similarity. We have full coverage both in the set goals and in the way they are implemented. So there is such a people, a democratic Bulgaria, a stand up BG! We're coming! and BSP has in the following sectors: In the sector, "Justice".. removing specialized courts and prosecutions; introducing a working mechanism for early termination of the powers of the Prosecutor General; real judicial reform through structural changes in the Supreme Judicial Council; reform of the Prosecutor's Office to ensure control of all its acts directly affecting the interests of citizens; real electronic justice in order to achieve a quick and fair process. In the sector, the economy is changing the Commercial Act in order to legally secure the various stages in the financing of start-up companies; tax incentives for start-up small and medium-sized enterprises, creating more than a certain number of jobs and meeting certain conditions; removing barriers to doing business and achieving an integrated and joint digital environment for serving citizens and companies through one point; building a data economy and open finance; achieving regional decentralisation; creating regional economic zones and reducing fragmentation of markets by promoting competitiveness; supporting entrepreneurship and building an export-oriented economy; detailed mapping of local resources, demographic and geographical needs; strategy for achieving a harmonious development and mobile connectivity of regions with a catching-up development; achieving fiscal equivalence; attracting highly qualified foreign personnel in line with the needs of the Bulgarian economy and facilitating the procedure for Blue Maps; using green technologies to achieve a circular economy; seeking a reduction in the budget deficit in the framework of the mandate, while at the end of its budget to be balanced; attracting high level of capital support for the needs of small-scale fiscal incentives and large-scale savings in terms of energy savings; increasing energy savings; improving energy savings; increasing efficiency; increasing efficiency and risk savings in terms; increasing efficiency in terms; increasing efficiency; and potential savings in terms; increasing efficiency and potential savings in terms; increasing efficiency and potential savings in terms; increasing efficiency and potential savings in terms; and potential savings in terms; increasing efficiency in terms; increasing efficiency in terms; and potential; and potential in terms for the process in terms; and potential; increasing in terms for achieving in terms for achieving the implementation of the process; lv.; the introduction of VAT back-up for the sectors of the "Fruids and vegetables" and "Bio-production" sectors for providing a competitive advantage to Bulgarian producers; fiscal decentralisation of part of the revenue from corporate tax and income tax of natural persons in the central budget of municipalities; the cancellation of interest on deposits and insurance payments; the return of the maximum threshold for budgetary expenditure "36 " 38% of the gross domestic product; the establishment of a transparent and accessible platform to citizens for the production of public procurement criteria, their award and execution; the clarification of the activities of the BBRs; transparency and priority financing of small and medium-sized enterprises; the reorganization of the Commission for Financial Supervision and Development of the Capital Market. In the healthcare model reform through the adoption of a new Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act; the creation of e-Health; the elimination of the model of clinical pathways and their replacement with diagnostically related groups; the establishment of an effective hospital outpatient assistance and a general state system for prevention of socially significant diseases for Bulgaria; emergency measures for changing the rules of work of the National Health Insurance Fund; the establishment of an effective National Emergency Assistance System with a included unit; emergency measures for preparing medical institutions to overcome a possible fourth wool. In the field of social policy, the introduction of an indeterminate minimum for all workers; tax benefits for children, support for young families to a third child of working and insured parents, as well as for parents students; transfer of pensions and guaranteeing a minimum standard of living and social support to elderly citizens; effective and transparent management of the capital pension fund in order to increase profitability and increase the percentage of insurance to the so-called second pillar; social support to people with disabilities based on their needs. In the sector "Education" "Sustaining and developing institutional expert project potential in the institutions that administer and create science; effective integration of minority communities in the educational process; establishment of scholarships for students from minorities; construction of kindergartens where necessary; precision of texts in the Higher Education Act with a view to reducing the number of higher education institutions in Bulgaria; increasing academic exchange students between the countries of the European Union and the Republic of Bulgaria; establishment of scientific clusters from educational institutions working with a common academic exchange. In the sector.......................................................................................................................... And for the final outcome of the meetings held and the hard positions you have requested for sectoral policies, please accept the above-mentioned joint and approved base priorities as the work of the parliamentary group represented by me, as well as the proposed composition of the Council of Ministers. We have repeatedly exposed to you, as well as to the Bulgarian citizens, the sovereign that a political party has been such a people.There is a consistent project aimed at disappearing the corruption model of government over the past 12 years. If you consider these objectives to be common between our parliamentary groups, we will expect you to support our proposed Council of Ministers. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u7	Thank you, Mr. Stanev. We are continuing with the agenda of the first item: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE EXAMINATION OF ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE SRS OF THE Ministry OF Interior WITH REGARD TO BULGARIAN CIVIL CIVILS, PARTICIPATING IN THE PRESBUTION CAMP AND THE SELECTED PROCEEDING PROCEEDING FOR THE 46th PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 23 July 2021. Mrs. Atanasova, you're welcome to present the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDS on the basis of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly proposes to set up a Temporary Commission to clarify all the facts and circumstances for the implementation of the SRS by the Ministry of Interior in relation to Bulgarian citizens participating in the election campaign and election process for the 46th National Assembly. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission to clarify all the facts and circumstances for the implementation of the SRS by the Ministry of Interior in relation to Bulgarian citizens participating in the election campaign and election process for the 46th National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED I. Set up a Temporary Commission to clarify all the facts and circumstances for the implementation of the SRS by the Ministry of Interior in relation to Bulgarian citizens participating in the election campaign and election process for the 46th National Assembly to clarify: 1. Have the Ministry of Interior applied the SRS to Bulgarian citizens participating in the election campaign and election process for the 46th National Assembly? 2. On what grounds is police harassment and illegal pressure on members and sympathizers of certain parties to influence election results for the 46th National Assembly? 3. Enlightenment to the public of officials who ordered police arrests, illegal detentions, searches and searches during the term of office of Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov. 4. Clarification of the reasons and reasons for the conversion of the warning protocols under art. 65 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior in a tool for pressure and uncontrolled repression of citizens in the implementation of their political rights. II. The temporary committee is set up on a parietal principle of three from each parliamentary group. III. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: The President: Members: IV. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of 3 months.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I am opening the debate on the proposed draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group will support the establishment of the Temporary Committee of inquiry. On our part, we propose to extend the subject of the Temporary Commission and to bring it in its title: "Project for a decision to establish a Temporary Commission to clarify all the facts and circumstances of police pressure and harassment on members, activists and sympathizers of political parties and candidates for MPs, including the implementation of the SRS by the Ministry of Interior in relation to Bulgarian citizens participating in the election campaign for the 46th National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u11	May I have your offer, Mr. Hamid? [[The National Representative Hamid Hamid shall submit the proposal to the President.]] Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u12	Madam President, colleagues! We will agree with the proposal of our fellow Members to expand the Commission's activities because, in fact, the purpose of this committee is without dreams and without a single woman said to come out all that was going on during this notorious election campaign for the 46th National Assembly. [[Reply from the BSP for Bulgaria: "A" for the 47th meeting? "]] Famous, why? I don't know. I don't know. Some coworker called for the 47th meeting. Maybe he's coming. These are your decisions, and we're talking about the 46th. The forty-sixth National Assembly was elected in a situation of unacceptable, unexpected and unpredictable pressure from the Ministry of Interior. On top of that, this pressure after the formation of the 46th National Assembly has become a platform for bragging from this ministry. The Minister of Interior of Bulgaria will quote it, no matter how uncomfortable it is for me to do so, said in an official press conference: "We have arranged this National Assembly. Colleagues, the disappearing, the attack on sympathizers participating in the election campaign, candidates and so on, of one party or two parties, of one person, is something that once happened, it will necessarily repeat itself in relation to other parties, other political parties, other sympathizers, other citizens who want to express their political opinion, political bias. This committee is the only option, in my opinion, to end the posters by the Minister of the Interior or anyone else or political persons and to show to the Bulgarian citizens that everyone, absolutely everyone, has the right to have their political biases, to participate in the political processes and that this constitutional right is guaranteed by the rules of the game. Because when the Ministry of Interior starts making elections, when the Minister of Interior starts boasting that he has made the elections and has elected the National Assembly, believe me, his envoy can knock on any one of your doors, and on every door of every Bulgarian citizen when you are on the other side of his baton. Whoever he is. And that's why, so there wouldn't be any speculation: but now these guys are insulted, or afraid, or scared, and that's how we did it, and we wrinkled them... No! Let such a committee gather all the documents, the notorious warning protocols, which we are already convinced and will prove in this committee that they have been illegally printed only on one side, without the second mandatory part of the protocols with the declarations of submission of a copy, or refusal to provide a copy which is illegal, which is breaking the law and the people... We'll get them together, we'll ask the Ministry of Interior for them on this committee. We'll ask the Ministry of Interior to provide us with all those protocols that this minister says: "Well, what protocols, show them, you don't have them, do you?" [[IBGMW lines.]] Colleague, at the very least, it's rude of you to yell at me from there! [[Relations from IHB and IBGMW.]] Let me finish, colleagues. I don't see in this room which one of us, which one of you would be worried about the truth, to come up with this truth. Not Manoil Manev or anyone else to exercise from the stand, but to come out the truth in a report of the Commission presented to the MPs adopted in this Chamber and made public to the Bulgarian citizens, as is the order of each commission. That's when we didn't turn it into a tribunal or turn it into what it was... There was a desire to call citizens, a courthouse. No, to gather with the power that has given us our choice as MPs, to gather all the documents, to meet with the people who were under this pressure, to meet with the people who were doing it, to find out who ordered it, to find out, to hear so much about special intelligence means, are such funds used during the election campaign, what types, who wanted them, in what order? That is the purpose of this committee. And I appeal from this tribune to you to support it. We in this meeting, and in the previous short meeting, showed that many things are done through such committees. Now let's do one thing that's extremely important. The future of politics, of making politics with democratic means, has been suppressed. And if we pass it now, it will continue to be crammed. Today I hear that some of you between parties are fighting, you don't get along and so on. Where's your guarantee that tomorrow you won't like the Home Secretary and you being the subject of this thing? Huh?! Think about it before you press the button. And those who are used to it, I don't remember anyone who's used to not getting up and telling the truth from this tribune. That's what we want. This is what we want you to come out and tell the truth: what are you used to, when are you used to, who has done it? Let's find out. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u13	Thank you, Mr. Manev. For lines? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Manev, you want the truth. Here, I will tell you the truth from the work of the Minister of Interior in the campaign Forty-sixth National Assembly. Neighborhood of the district of Botev in 24 electoral district, 8 sections with Roma population. For the forty-fifth National Assembly with Minister Terziyski, 1912 votes GERB, 80% of all voters vote for GERB. For the forty-sixth National Assembly, only two months after 4 April, in the same 8 sections.. 121 votes for GERB. [[Applause from IHN.]] That's the result, Mr. Manev. That's the truth. But this is the truth not only in the district of....................... that is the truth throughout Bulgaria. What did you do in two months that you lost 1,700 votes? Do you realize that? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] This is what has been done, Mr. Rashkov, it has been done by the caretaker government that limited you to this vote from which you were bringing in MPs without their support. And you've been doing a lot of it for 12 years. And for 12 years you have managed Bulgaria in this way with some 150 000 votes that you did not deserve. Here, you have now received your real support - 65 MPs, or 63. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u15	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line, Mr. Mihalev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u16	It is clear to us from "Democratic Bulgaria" that all these facts should be investigated. You have to see if there's been a wiretap, have such militia techniques been done against protesters. There's gotta be a committee, but there's a board for that. It is meticulous that all the cooing between GERB and DPS is. I'm sorry, but you're not gonna get through with this militia shit. We will not support this committee. She's got a portfolio, she'll deal with the investigation of these facts, and we'll find out what and how it was. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] But with these tricks that are currently being played, and this ball that you are handing out GERB and DPS will not pass!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u17	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Manev, there is a word called "peace." It is good for you and the Political Party GERB, and the SDS to have a little humility. Twelve years, how did you manage the country? And I have the right to say it, because by order of your Minister of Interior and the right hand of Mr. Borisov, Mr. Tsvetanov has entered my house. In front of my kids who didn't have seven years! I don't know if anyone else has ever felt this way. And if you're talking about a police boot, yes, I've seen it from your department. How many companies were under the dictatorship of your interior ministers? How many things happened in our country thanks to the police department? And right now you're talking about the office, about the Minister of the Interior, at the very least, it doesn't suit you! Your entire political party doesn't suit you. With all the actions that Bulgarian citizens saw during this 12-year government. And that's why it's said that we have to put an end to this government and dismantle this model of governance. It's not random talk. There's no reason people went out on the street. You obviously don't realize the sign that's being given. So let's put an end to this police matter and not transfer things that have happened from the sick one to the healthy head. Let's go forward and really stay that in history if we want the country to go another way. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u19	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u20	In fact, colleagues, from what you have done to me as lines, you have repeated what I want to say to stop in order to end a phenomenon, whatever it is, whoever did it, it must be shown to everyone. I understand that you're tense and that you're comparing Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Rashkov, you're probably right. Hundred percent! However, there is one small detail - Mr. Tsvetanov is not an insurmountable factor in politics in Bulgaria. Mr. Rashkov, even less! Neither of the transgressions nor of the other must remain hidden. For one, we showed it to no hidden, no sacred cows, no sacred faces. End of story. For the phenomenon, however, you have confirmed what I say: if we do not make such a commission, the phenomenon remains against you, or against others, or against us. That's the difference. That is what we are saying. Let us make a committee to show that this phenomenon is disgusting. My colleagues there, I don't mind that there's a portfolio committee. First of all, she's not here yet. Secondly, as far as I understand it will be extremely wide with its name National Security Committee, I think it is the new...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u21	No, no. You're not familiar with the final version.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u22	Okay, I don't know. I haven't seen her, she's not here yet. When she does, we'll see her. But the fact that a committee of inquiry is going to deal with one particular case is going to interfere with the work of the big committee? Absolutely not! Finally, should I be responsible for the neighborhood? Didn't she go to Sofka's party to do some pep talk? [[Radio.]] No, I don't remember. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I'm asking. I'm not a specialist.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u23	Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u24	And if some voices have gone somewhere, I don't know if they haven't, because one of the most famous Bulgarian folk singers is doing a party campaign there. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u25	Mr. Chenchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u26	I don't know about that. I'm talking about the last election, mate. And I'm asking, so. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u27	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u28	Just one more word. Just one more sentence, guys. We are turning an extremely serious proposal for an extremely serious defect shown in democratic elections into a circus again. And you're doing it not because you're convinced there shouldn't be such a committee, I'm sure of it, you're doing it just to spite it. Understand the time of politics in spite of it! [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u29	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Here's a statement, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u30	And I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u31	For a statement, first Mr. Hadjigenov asked for the floor. Mr. Tsonev, do you want the word after that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr. Manev that politics should end in spite of it. And I think we should all agree on that. I have only one correction "It is not a woman said" and Boyko Borisov said it. Don't call him that, he's touchy. [[Laughter and applause from IHN and IBBNI.]] With regard to the fact that we should not do anything against each other, I think that those who are willing to support such a committee will not be narrow-minded people and we will give the opportunity to the two of your representatives on the other committee for the violence and eavesdropping that did not come in on your behalf, we will give you two seats, take them too. We're not doing anything against each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. They have these places there, so any moment they want to borrow them, they can submit their names to the MPs. - What's the line? I don't think so. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u34	Thank you, Madam President. DPS are very consistent on this subject and I will tell you why and what we mean. The theme of the use of state power and public authorities is that we have put it for many, many years. Even when we talk about the model that we want to build, we say that we want to build the model in which the state authorities are turned into bats, forest, all kinds of control bodies, the NRA and so on, into locations. We have videos of the forest beating with metal rods during an election campaign. Here GERB's fault is enormous. I would like to ask the new parties who want to scrape this model: can this model be scraped with the same funds? Because, fellow Members of the BSP, during this election campaign, this happened again in many places. When we went to the President for consultations, we did not talk to the President about anything else, but only about this long before GERB thought to bring in the Commission. We told the President that these cases have been described in detail, that for them we have witnessed that mayors who legally participate in the electoral process have been called and have signed declarations that they will not participate in the electoral process, that police violence has been beyond any measure, that under the mask fighting the bought corporate vote there has been unlawful interference in the electoral process. We want, we told the President, and we will insist that every case be dealt with in the Bulgarian Parliament. No, honourable Members, in the portfolio committee because, if it were in the portfolio committee, there should also be police violence during the protests, but we voted for a committee for police violence. Then, Mr. Hadjigenov, do you remember what you said to me? We wanted this to be included in this committee, and you said: "No, not in a separate committee, so that violence during the protests would not be blurred, and that violence would be considered in a separate committee. " Why the double arsin now? The subject of hypocrisy again. Why? Come on, if we're gonna break the pattern, let's break it down with democratic means. If there will be transparency in the actions of the authorities in one case, there will be transparency in another case. If we're going to be consistent, let's do it. If not, we will talk again about hypocrisy and talk about something even worse, that democracy cannot be restored by undemocratic means, that justice cannot be restored with injustice. Read the fat book. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. For lines? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u36	Mr. Tsonev, it's a very nice speech about hypocrisy. You're usually right. As it is hypocritical of GERB to speak against police violence, given that one of their MPs is responsible for beating people, it is similarly hypocritical for you to talk about the pressure of foresters because foresters in mixed regions are a function of DPS. [[(Replication of MP Desislava Atanasova: Who is responsible?]] [[DRF lines]] It's a fact. I've been around Kardzhaliski, I've been there a lot. It is no accident that you in Kardzhali lost the elections exactly from the people there is such a people in Kirkovo and in the whole region... [[Heckling]] See the votes in Kardzhali which is the first political force in Kardzhali. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I'm talking about Kardzhali about the city, not the region. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Forests are a function of DPS in these areas and harass people at the lowest domestic level, of the kind, not to give them, to threaten them that they will not give them wood during the winter. So, yes, if there is a cabinet and it is supported by the parties that we hope will be supported, there will be a serious revision of the foresters in these regions. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u37	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Tsonev, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (JV) arose as a party defending the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens. In recent decades, it has established itself as one of the images of the oligarchic model of government. In my electoral district, Stara Zagora, in the April 4th elections, the DPS received almost 18,000 votes. In the elections, 11 July, the DPS received 9,000 votes less. I do not know if this is due to an ongoing repression, but it is a fact that just before the elections Thursday and Friday, the mayor of the municipality of Gurkovo was arrested and is charged with buying votes. He was arrested with the participation of the DANS and the D.A.'s office. If we call Minister Rashkov, can he give us information? I don't know. I will personally ask him about this because it is important when using repression in the electoral period, is it about repression in favor of a political force or is it about establishing facts? You can count on me to ask Mr. Rashkov personally what is the situation in Gurkovo? What's going on with this case? Is it a form of repression, or is it a form of stopping the bought vote? The result is 9,000 votes less for the DPS in the 27th Mir "Stara Zagora." Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u39	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For a third line? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u40	Mr. Tsonev, honourable colleagues, when I return to the year 2019, speaking of electoral repression, I also have much to tell, and stories which I have never said publicly, but which has not been specifically under the impact and repression of the DPS, he does not really know what you are capable of. If I return to 2019 in the local elections in Veliko Tarnovo region, Mr. Tsonev, and ask you: what was the role of your colleague Kamen Kostadinov in the electoral process, I can tell you how I saw this electoral process being dragged in the morning, noon and evening on false signals in police, interrogated my loved ones, my family, persecuted by various convicted criminal entities, with cameras, microphones and so on. If I ask you, Mr. Tsonev, what was your party's role in all these events, I think the answer is very unpleasant for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u41	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! So far, I've heard nothing but grounds for a committee. So far, I've heard nothing but grounds for a committee! If this has happened in Gurkovo or Stara Zagora, let the facts be clarified. Yes, the minister, other officials, and to see everything. We don't have any fear of that. Why do you refuse to set up such a committee, then? To correct you, Mr. Yordanov, in Kardzhali the first political force in the city and in the district is DPS. [[Applause from DPS.]] And one more thing to correct you, there was no forest during the time of GERB neither in Kardzhali nor in any other mixed area. [[Noise and cheering:]] You should know this and check it now when you enter the government, because what Mr. Borisov does to us is now doing to you. Now he sends you somewhere that someone's behind you? That's how it was done for us. There are rumors that they're there, but they're not there. Mr. Bojankov, what you have for Mr. Kostadinov on the committee. Vote now for committee and ask how DPS 2019, when it was not in power, has been used to you. Which authorities were assigned by the DPS to get you used to it? All these things you say in this committee, not now hypocritically saying that this and that, but there will be no committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u43	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To put it mildly, I am amazed at the insolence of the proposal for this committee as proposed. With my respect to Mr. Manev, who I have already witnessed several times, indeed everything that has been said so far can be said about all the elections that have passed. But that is not the proposal of the committee, Mr. Manev. The commission's proposal is to investigate repression for the 46th National Assembly elections. I would ask you to remember a partial election in 2009, which in my hometown of Razlog, no one will ever forget. If we are talking about pressure, I can tell you that some companies then handed hundreds of notice of dismissal to their workers in order to win GERB these elections. [[Heckling]] 2009, yes. I can tell you that back then the headquarters was downtown and there was civil protection, police, tax, NRA, anything you can remember. Personally, I've appealed dozens of acts, dozens of acts, I've appealed to people who put up posters. Therefore, I really think that this model should end. But everyone should be investigated. If there is to be such a committee, if it is to be adopted, it should concern all violations of all elections and not violations of elections for the 46th National Assembly. Because it's like Stalin complaining about someone slapping him. Do you understand? This is the sound of GERB's complaint about pressure being put on them. This, Mr. Manev, you as a prominent person who deals with and understands the police, you know that prevention is something that is advisable always. One protocol for warnings of persons who have some kind of fame is not pressure, Mr. Manev. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Manev, do you want the floor for a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u46	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u47	- What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unlawful use of state authorities Tough words. Now let's explain what's behind them. A protocol on the SVR, which, by its deep nature, cannot legally say because the language does not turn to me, represents a legal nonsense in which on two sides a person and back, especially for Mr. Manev, obliges the person who signs the declaration, notice, to comply with the law. It was called repression. On the other hand, we have a huge amount of use of the SRS last year, part of them is already clear that they are illegal against Bulgarian citizens and I can tell you this from the first person, as far as I am an instigator, organizer and leader of an armed uprising, a terrorist and what you can think of two more files created by the Attorney General. I'm already in charge of the Commission, it's a little early. There is a list of persons and there, interestingly, there are no people from GERB. There are, however, of all others, including a prosecutor from the City Prosecutor's Office, this is also interesting why. Mr. Tsonev, you're right. There should be a committee. But for purely principled reasons, this disgusting collaboration, excuse me, between GERB and DPS in this committee is unacceptable to me. This isn't personal. I agree that all such cases should be investigated, but not in this case. Mr. Tsonev, this is my personal opinion. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u49	Tell me who's in it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u50	Mr. Bikov, this is GERB. We're not GERB. We are here to not have GERB anymore, because over the years it has become clear... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, that's right. When we talk about an interior minister who has made elections, naturally, the name of Tsvetan Tsvetanov comes up. Yes, he is no longer a factor in politics, but not thanks to you, but thanks to us. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] That's right, yes. So the effect of Boyko Rashkov actually shows something very good. It shows what law enforcement looks like. Yes, this is unknown to GERB. It is very clear to me. This is called the enforcement of the law equally and accurately and is not repression. It is a repression when they beat protesters when they are kidnapped from the street; when they are listening to Bulgarian citizens because they will forcefully overthrow the power. And yes, some of these people are still in the GERB group. It's a repression! Signing a flying piece of paper that obliges you to observe the law that you must obey under the same law is not a repression. That's pathetic! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u51	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. [[Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Mr. Manev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Hadjigenov, this is exactly what we wanted when we discussed your proposal for the Commission that you are leading. You turned back then and said: "We will support in a separate committee, and we gentlemen have agreed personally on behalf of our colleagues not to make an editorial proposal to expand the scope of your committee. And then you wouldn't see the disgusting collaboration, you would just see that we really want this to be investigated. I'll let my colleagues decide if you were correct when you diverted. As with the next point, we will see how correct and unfair the colleagues were, who said: let there be a committee only for the "Rosenets" and let us not divert the attention, but for the "Bujaka" there will be a separate one, and then quietly refused to sign it, knowing that we have 29 MPs, and for a commission there will be 48 signatures. It's not hypocrisy, it's not just like that! Nothing personal, like you just said. [[Applause from DPS.]] However, if your idea, I ask you seriously, for an interior minister is this minister, you should know that Bulgarian democracy has a serious problem. This cannot be an idea of Bulgarian Interior Minister! Let me say it from this stand, so you know what I mean! [[Applause from DPS.]] This is the last one who can be a model, even with his behavior here, with the nervousness, with all the outbursts of narcissism that suggest this would have happened. And what happened is called a re-van-shi-zum! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u53	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u54	Mr. Hadzhigenov, if you allow me, when you answer to Mr. Tsonev, you may ask him: why is it necessary to create so many committees in parliament to duplicate the work of the prosecution? Because, in fact, we should be reforming the prosecution to deal with all this matter and not being involved in all these claims. Because they say there are a lot of violations in this room. Any examples are given, but the prosecution is an unchanged participant in all these claims. Well, let's, speaking of hypocrisy, reform this prosecution and not turn the National Assembly into some kind of government and national control body to... [[Reply from DPS.]] Ours is the reform. There is no doubt about it. And besides, you can explain to Mr. Tsonev that we told him that a committee for the Bhujaka-kun, when it is brought into the Chamber, we will support and that is exactly what will happen. But giving them signatures didn't have to, because they collected them. Except he got them GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u55	We gave it to you first!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u56	We'll discuss that when the committee comes. [[Applause from DB.]] There were lines about some defender, Mr. Bikoff, isotzade? [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u57	Mister... Personal explanation, let's follow the procedure. Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Hadjigenov, I want to replicate you: there is no need for such a commission. What he needs is a change in the Penal Code to expand the composition of the crime. During the elections in Stara Zagora we made a list of voters who were submitted to us by various citizens, participants in the elections from Zinka the shopkeeper to Soulyo, paulyo and you remember. The truth is, however, that this criminal contingent or people who have contacts with the criminal world are the lowest levels. They're run by mayors, MPs. The same mayor of Gurkovo, who was arrested for several hours, I don't even think he was arrested, had stopped the water of the Roma neighborhood with the argument of who to vote for. And if we have to aim at someone, it's not at the low levels, of course, but at those who control them; those who give them the money; those that are related to corruption practices, because if there is no money, there are no votes! It's very clear. Therefore, honourable Members, personally, I am extremely pleased with the work of the Ministry of Interior in these elections. If there is any pandemic in Bulgaria, it is not the CIVID "This pandemic belongs to the buyers of votes. There are vote buyers who change one car in each election. There are people for whom this is a profession. And this battle cannot be done any other way than with the Ministry of Interior, except with force, not with repression, of course. And those protocols they signed, I'm sorry, they really aren't any repression at all! So I don't know who the next Interior Minister will be, but he certainly needs to continue what the Ministry of Interior is doing right now. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Mr. Hadjigenov, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u60	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the one hand, the accusations of revenge on the part of GERB, which ruled officially, are somewhat justified. However, when they come from the DPS, who claim they have not ruled, they are perplexed, Mr. Tsonev, that you have either ruled or not. If you didn't rule, then there's no rematch. Like fellow Member Hristo Ivanov, we would also support a committee for the "Budzhaka" "No one has asked us for signatures," otherwise we would have signed. I find the request to set up exactly this type of committee, just as supported, interesting. I'll tell you why. Do any of you ask yourself the question: what the hell is the Chief Prosecutor doing in the Republic of Bulgaria? Because the things we're talking about, weren't they crimes? Aren't they actually crimes? Why should Mr. Tsonev investigate these disgusting acts? Why? Why should Hristo Ivanov do it or me? Why? Isn't that the job of the Attorney General? What's the Attorney General doing right now? He's standing on Borovets at the D.A.'s station?! Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u61	There's a penal code!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u62	There's a penal code, you say, Mr. Karadayi. Yes, there is, and he doesn't bother anyone...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u63	And the commission will investigate the police actions.. how far they have reached the prosecutor's office and how many cases have been set up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u64	Mr. Karadaye!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u65	Thank you for your consultation. That's very kind of you. In fact, let's go back to the Penal Code. That's the D.A.'s job because it's about crimes. Permanent crimes, which, as Mr. Kadiev pointed out, are committed decades and committed by everyone. And every D.A. here, we're not just gonna hit Geshev every D.A., somehow conveniently misses all those except those in power, then turns against them. So if you'll excuse me, it's not the prosecution's job. The same prosecution is now investigating us as perpetrators of an armed uprising. And since today is obviously my day of free legal counseling, the text in the Penal Code. 95 of Chapter One was created in 1968. It was never used, ever, ever! In the previous Penal Code was used one single time, if memory serves, this is the case against the burning of an armed uprising in the early 1950s, if memory serves me right. It's never been used again! Would you like to make a comparison now, parallel? On the one hand, someone signs a flyer on which he writes: "Secret the law! "; on the other hand, there is a huge OPG (organized criminal group), exploited are a huge amount of SRS, the entire resources of the Ministry of Interior are harnessed to work against the peaceful Bulgarian citizens "SRS," each service, including those who do not work, such as the Internal Security of the Ministry of Interior, work this. And at the same time, did you see there was a repression against GERB?! This is the moment when I shed a tear of tranquility without an apology. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u66	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u67	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u68	Mr. Tsonev, who? Mr. Ivanov made a line, and the line is an objection, not a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u69	Yeah, but it was against me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u70	Here you go. I'll compromise. [[Noise and lines.]] The line is generally an objection to speech. He didn't make a statement. [[DPS lines.]] Yeah, I understand, but the personal explanation is basically...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u71	All right, Madame Chairman, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u72	Yes, in the manner of conduct you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u73	The way you're leading it, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u74	The line is not against Tsonev! Speaking of which...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u75	Got it. Yes, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u76	If we're gonna move...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u77	That's how the Rules of Procedure are signed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u78	...by procedure, I agree. You should then, Madam President, make a note to Mr. Hristo Ivanov that his statement is not a line to Mr. Hadjivanov, but a line to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u79	Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u80	Hadjigenov, I'm sorry. I'm gonna give you a shirt for messing up your name. You have to tell me what size you're wearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u81	Pink, like the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u82	So when you do not follow the Rules, Madam President, we will not be able to participate in the debate fully, because of what Mr. Hristo Ivanov said as a reply to me, if it were by the Rules, I would have answered with a duplicate and I would have been able to tell him that we provided the committee in question first to their party because we do not have 48, and with them we can submit, and because they declared from this tribune that they agree only not to be the two committees in one. So that's the hypocrisy we're talking about. And that's why I asked for a personal explanation, but since it's in the form of another procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u83	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u84	...okay! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u85	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. We continue with further comments. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are witnessing a democracy of hypocrisy! [[Applause from DB.]] Temporary committees shall be set up in the National Assembly with a subject of competence of other state authorities. Committees in the National Assembly shall be set up with a specific subject in which, with the argument that another committee should have, shall not include acts and omissions of its own. That's the double standard, that's the hypocrisy we're witnessing. And as a rule, with these committees, someone is trying to turn the National Assembly into a People's Court. Specifically on the subject of the committee. We of this tribune, both in 2011 and 2013 and 2015 and 2019 in the elections, have raised the issue of fair, transparent, free, democratic elections and have indicated the intervention of the state authorities and the state apparatus for producing an election result of the respective rulers at that time. Including a video footage taken with a cell phone, for physical beatings by park rangers that were guarded by the police. But here's the extent to which it comes when you talk about disabling a vicious model, but you use the same pattern to a much greater extent. The demountation of the model "GERB" as you say, or as we call for a restoration of statehood, normality in politics, restoration of democracy, cannot and should not be done with undemocratic methods and instruments. The assumption of a clear violation of the rights of citizens protected under the Constitution, and by a repressive state apparatus, is now a rematch to a certain part of the country's citizens, and in this case, your conduct and action, in my opinion, is also a request for dictatorship. Different arsins lead to that. That's the request right now. Why? Because we have paid a very high price for democracy in Bulgaria. We are very sensitive to the subject of the protection of democracy in Bulgaria and we are called to defend democracy, regardless of what and who we will face. Hence, from this tribune, I would like to say that whether such a commission is adopted or not, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we will use all the parliamentary funds and tools to clarify every particular case in the elections in question, the repression of a party apparatus, party activists, covered behind the curtain, a fight against the purchase of votes. Yeah, we're going to eliminate this vicious practice fighting votes buying, aren't we, ma'am? But, on the other hand, using it as a front to bully an entire party apparatus and structures and all activists and citizens involved in the electoral process is no longer a democracy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u87	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. One moment, Mr. Hadjigenov. Mr. Georgiev, I beg you very much, with the coffees outside. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo! "]] Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u88	Thank you, Madam President. This time I'll be very brief. Mr. Karadayi, democracy is guarding itself outside, in the square, not the Council of Ministers. Thank you, Madam President. [[Laughter and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u89	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. For a second line? Mr. Mitov? Oh, no. Second line? I won't. Mr. Karadaye, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u90	That's a short line. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Hadjigenov, don't teach us about the square we have proved it in time. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering by DPS: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u91	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. For other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u92	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Listening to the debate, I have the feeling that everyone is entitled to the legitimate right to be the holder of the label, the Democrat and the guarantor of this right. I also feel that the parliamentary tribune has long since become as if in the last instance not of the law, but of the opinion of certain individuals, representatives of political parties or of the Council of Ministers. So, gentlemen Democrats, on all sides of this House, the parliamentary platform should not be the last instance for members of the National Assembly with their addresses, findings or speeches or for members of the Council of Ministers. All of us, ensuring that we respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and are guided by the interests of the people, we are probably aware that we represent the entire people, not just our own voters. So, gentlemen, by supporting the establishment of such a commission, you will directly meet the norms of the Constitution, because you will protect all those over 650,000 Bulgarian citizens who are not your constituents in the last two choices, but also those who have been repressed, persecuted, detained. If we want to talk about democracy, if we want to defend it all together, we will do it systematically as we did from GERB when we voted to set up the committee of inquiry, which should investigate all the facts and circumstances regarding the protests of last summer, all the actions and omissions of the police authorities and their orders. Because we GERB give a clear account, and we have always done so, that we do not extend a political umbrella over anyone. If someone overstepped their rights, they're responsible. [[Sighs:?!]] We have proved it, gentlemen, do not react violently with the vote to set up this committee. We have supported twice in the 45th, and now in the 46th National Assembly, Mrs Manolova's Commission on Revision, precisely because we are aware that all data, facts and circumstances must be known to the public and that everyone should be responsible for actions and omissions. We voted in favour of the proposal of our colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" for the creation of the Commission "Rosenets" once again with the clear awareness that the facts should be publicly known. That's how democracy works, that's how parliamentaryism works when there's no double archin when there's no hypocrisy. And now we expect the same from you, because otherwise you cannot put a label on the House of Democrats, no matter what part of the House you are in, because you cannot forget that there is a mandate and things are changing. There's no telling which hypothesis it'll ever be in. But I hope that none of us, in any mandate, will allow what happened in the last election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, here are all the data on signs of repression by candidates for MPs, members, sympathizers of the Political Party GERB, advisers, municipal councilors, mayors of settlements. [[Shows the signal document.]] And if anyone claims to have done quite legitimately police actions, it has nothing to do with repression of individuals who have self-deprecated as members, sympathizers of a political party, but is some kind of normal process. I will not agree with him because, including against fellow MPs who are in this room, there is a clear repression, and they are not people of the criminal contingent, and they are not buyers of votes. Finally, we at GERB have always felt that we need the vicious, malicious practices related to the electoral process to be exposed and support the actions of the state authorities in the fight against these vicious practices, but we do not support the Ministry of Interior for one month to use as a bat and a repressive apparatus against a particular political party, and this is the Political Party GERB. And if you consider yourself Democrats, and if you continue to defend the rights of all Bulgarian citizens, you should support the establishment of this committee. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Chenchev, then Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u94	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, thank God you don't have access to democracy. There has never been a democracy in your government. You can't talk about bats. Everyone in the room knows, everyone outside the room knows, you talking about bats is... You are talking about democracy and protocols that concern compliance with the law, given that you were carrying sacks of ballots during elections, is to put it mildly untenable. As far as the committees are concerned, I will always react, and now I react to the committees. Here is hypocrisy, and it is with you again, because when you made committees and all power was centered in your hands, you, on the principle of the roller of the majority that you had in the 44th National Assembly, you put the chairmen of committees of your people, of your parliamentary group or of your parliamentary majority, and nothing derived from these committees, but absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u95	What are you going to do now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u96	To put it mildly, some of the meetings were turned into a circus, an absolute butaphory. And everyone knows that. So no sweet eyes here from this tribune. I also agree with Mr. Hadjigenov because I don't know what kind of repression you can talk about when they catch a peaceful citizen, extract him under some columns and beat him. And you're talking about repression. A citizen who protests, extracts and beats him up. Point, there is nothing more to say about a point that is guilty of taking responsibility. That's it. So much for committees, democratic principles, that much. Twelve years we've seen democratic principles, we've seen bats, we've seen everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u97	We saw it, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u98	Now it's time for this to just stop and scratching is not in the sense of you continuing...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u99	Mr. Chenchev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u100	Thank you, Madam President. ... You keep doing democracy as you understand it. Democracy is the way people want it, not the way you understand it, and you will feel it very soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Atanasov, come in. Third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u102	Thank you, Madam President. I am provoked by this statement. Mrs. Atanasova, I am glad that by going to opposition, you have understood what democracy is. [[Laughter and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And do you know why I'm going out here on this stand? Because it is good that we from "Democratic Bulgaria" since we were created have always talked about that the National Assembly is the supreme authority of government, as recorded in art. 1 of the Constitution. And it is good that you have now thought of that we must restore the name of Parliament and of parliamentaryism, but I am going out on this stage to remind you of something to everyone, including those who are watching us. I'll never forget a scene that was taken right here in front of the stands. Your leader, then Prime Minister, entering the Chamber, that was a long time ago, because he has not stepped foot in parliament in the last two or three years, turned to the MPs and told them that they are idlers, so we should treat democracy, but it is good to remember them. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u103	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, if there was a mistake in your speech, it was related to the fact that you tried to convince your colleagues from the parties of the change from BSP, Mrs. Manolova, Mr. Atanasov, to support this committee at all. We, from the beginning of this Parliament, are in favour of all the committees that are being proposed in the previous Parliament. It's a matter of thinking a little more. Colleagues of these political formations are currently at one of the lowest political levels of thinking, this is personal thinking. That is, if GERB offers it, then we are against it, they say something, we will say that Boyko Borisov is bad. Thanks to this low level of Mahlena they have already fought with each other, they already hate each other. They can't talk to each other, they can't talk to each other because they say, "But we won't, we can't talk to the other." But when the other guy gets here, he can't either.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u105	Mr. Bikov, your line is Mrs. Atanasova's.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u106	It is not the problem, Mrs. Atanasova, that they will not support the committee, the problem is that they will do nothing, that is the bigger problem, and that is precisely because of this way of thinking in DMCS style. We're repeating the same mantras here until we go crazy... [[DB lines.]] He'll be with you from behind, Mr. Ivanov. You'll have it! [[Laughter in GERB-SDS]] Mark my words!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u107	Mr. Bikov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u108	Thank you, Madam President, for your patience with me again. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u109	A hole, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Chenchev, I don't see you in the room, but you can still hear. In the management of GERB, Mr. Chenchev, BSP showed extremely good results in elections. So you won presidential elections during the management of GERB. I mean, GERB's repressive apparatus, and GERB's bats, as you put it, I put it in quotes, of course, because it sounds unserious, I don't see how they got in your way? [[IHN lines]] The fact that you are not enjoying particularly definite election results lately, I attach it to another, that already in a government which is formed by the bearer of change, you are a third political party, also probably not due to democratic elections, but to another, but this is your topic. Mr. Atanasov, it is wonderful that the topic and the discussion of democracy are coming back here again. [[(Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov:]] Not in 12 years, I'll fix you. This conversation we had together, Mr. Atanasov, not only here in plenary, when you were part of the Reformation Block and we were partners, but outside the National Assembly when we protested together, but your current partners said that the protests were paid, and they wore sweatshirts for Plamen! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So the discussion about democracy is nice to come back and part of this conversation is that we are all convinced that by defending democracy, we must protect the rights of all Bulgarian citizens not only those who want to very much disappear, but of everyone. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Atanassov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u112	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor in the manner in which I ask you then, when imitations are made from the parliamentary tribune, to take away the floor of the one who allows it, regardless of the fact that he has graduated from the NATFIZ. Thank you. [[Laughter and applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u113	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I turned immediately with a remark to Mr. Bikov and he even finished his line. Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u114	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Parliamentary committees have shown, the temporary parliamentary committees have shown their strength in the Forty-Fiveth and Forty-sixth National Assembly, and this does not make us surprised by the fact that GERB, DPS and all the others suddenly asked for parliamentary committees on different topics. But the slightest problem of the now requested parliamentary committees is that it is not principled. She's not principled! Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u115	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u116	We remember various cases of repression over the years, remembering how businesses were pressured to vote for a certain political power, then GERB did not want a parliamentary committee. We remember the NRA entering several companies to investigate them after they turned out to be participants in the protests. Then, and then GERB did not ask for a parliamentary committee to investigate these actions. We remember how a mayor of GERB was beaten in GERB's office in Dobrich, a village mayor, was beaten and then GERB again did not ask for a parliamentary commission against this repression. Therefore, colleagues, I say that your request for a parliamentary committee is unprincipled. However, if you go along the line to ask for parliamentary committees for any pain of Mr. Borisov, perhaps you should complete the subject of this parliamentary committee with the drone that the President had managed to enter the villa to investigate Mr. Boyana Borisov. Maybe this should get into the subject too, to make the circus full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u117	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? Mr. Manev, come in. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u118	No, I'm not going to attack any colleague, I'm just going to make a line to my colleague that, in fact, with wits and talk all day here, I don't know how many hours have passed since the beginning of our meeting, I don't want to watch, you all said the same thing, including you, a colleague: yes, there is repression, yes, it's not wrong to have repression, because it has always happened! And we want a committee to finish the subject: was there, how many, who applied them and who commanded them? That's the theme. The other rhetorical exercises, by comedy, don't make sense of them clearly and accurately. There were colleagues who put their name democratic over there, I see it, colleague. Democratic! He says democracy is democracy, but you must eat the tree! That's what democracy is! Come on now be democratic, be there what you were, new, different and go out and say: here we will make a committee and everything will become clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u119	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Delchev, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Hamid, Mr. Hamid!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u120	Mr. Manev, your reply has once again proved that your request for this committee is unprincipled. It is not based on any facts and on any circumstances, because we have not heard such facts and circumstances from this tribune, as we have not heard such facts and circumstances when giving a press conference from different villas and from different houses to the Prime Minister. But let me remind you that the truth will still be revealed. You can participate if you want, you're not a member, I don't know if you're a member or not. There are two such other committees, both for the SRS, and a Temporary Commission for Eavesdropping and Repression, if you wish to participate and there to become part of the revelation of the truth, but no, your pain is different. You want to have your committee, you want to have your tribune from which you expose your people that others do what you did 12 years! You wanted to prove to us one more time... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u121	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u122	...that the thief shouts, "Hold the thief!" [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Don't be nervous, Mr. Manev, the truth will come out eventually. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u123	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I'm trying to get the conversation back where it started, and I hope that maybe after that we can move on to a vote. When one committee was drawn up, it was achieved in a dialogueal regime that, in order not to overwork it with the subject of action, it should also be supported by this committee. I remember very well the exchange of this dialogue between the DPS and the colleagues from "Yes, Bulgaria." It's about something pretty clear. Undoubtedly, since there have been elections in Bulgaria, there have been vicious practices. This committee will most likely help to clarify them as a mechanism how they happen. For example, I can't understand the resistance of "Rise up!" in a situation, let's say that in the Burgas election district it was your candidate for an MP who was caught buying votes. Don't you care if he's been repressed? Maybe he's the innocent guy? He was a candidate for a parliamentary member of the list. Personally, I'm interested in knowing what happened to this story, and I'm saying it without getting mad at you, I'm interested, because when you were arrested for 24 hours, the mayor of Bata, without any procedure being made with him, this man was just held for 24 hours. He wasn't interrogated, nothing was signed, not even an inventory of his belongings. We want to find out why this happened? Why this man, who is the fifth term and has never been a loan shark before, is not a Roma baron, mayor of the fifth term, held 24 hours without any procedural actions at least by any means. None and then released without any explanation. So this committee could really enlighten the mechanisms for buying votes. But here several colleagues of you said that this is the industry.. the buying of votes in Bulgaria, and I think that, saying this thing, we are actually making a diagnosis of the Bulgarian political life, which is quite bitter. After the entire political class of Bulgaria is currently represented, with few exceptions, in this Assembly, we actually state that a large part of our compatriots remain completely untouched by the policies we offer them and prefer to sell their vote. I think this is a much bigger conversation than how exactly Rashkov or any other minister in his place is trying to stop this practice. Its very existence is the big problem, and it is perhaps what it is worth talking about for a long time. Therefore, if you will allow me, Madam President, I am also making a procedure to end the debate and proceed to a vote with this speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u125	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. I will not put your procedure to the vote because you do not have such a legal basis in the Rules of Procedure. Any lines to Mr. Dilov? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u126	Madam President, honourable Members! Please extend the time of the Rules Group and allow me to say a few words in connection with the debate that is developing. You claim, after 12 years, honourable colleagues from GERB, that you have introduced all kinds of innovations in the purchase of votes, with a parliamentary committee to resolve once and for all the question of how to stop this wicked practice. It seems to me that this is an over-ambitious task that even you can't do. We know about some of the practices, but not enough and perhaps not necessary. Is there a member of parliament standing up? Who was involved in the campaign and accused of buying votes? There is such an MP and, as there is such an MP, the group in Burgas and Mrs. Manolova, the chairman of the coalition, immediately and in minutes, impressed elegantly but categorically that the person leaves. He's got law enforcement. The judicial authorities will rule. If there's any data, if there's no data, if there's any prerequisites for anyone suspecting him of anything, whether he did it or not, please let justice rule. Our parliamentary group and our coalition have shown unambiguously and categorically that if someone, somewhere, has created doubts even with the fact that they are going to wave more around the Roma than they are supposedly normal, they will have done the bill. In Sofia, the management of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and DANS all week called out a person because he thought he should be eliminated from the campaign for votes for our coalition. He called me on the first day and said, "But it's not possible. These people keep me from campaigning. These people have nothing on me. They tell me that there are anonymous signals. " - I told him the following: There are or there are no anonymous signals, whatever it is for everyone, it will be for us too. Yeah, they called him every day. Friday they called the candidate to keep her all day. Please, after we have created such a practice with the buying of votes, and you, by the Political Party GERB, I say for the honour of Parliament...............................and not because we have any participation in this, we must eradicate this phenomenon. It includes a preventive activity that can never be measured exactly on the line, but it involves, above all, our desire not to win unfair elections and votes. And when it starts with our goodwill, to wonder you, the authors of the most innovative buying practices, what commission to create to explain to someone how innocent you are in your own eyes, be so kind as to spare us this effort. Be as innocent as you want in your eyes. The public opinion is so horseshoeed that you are the buyers of votes, honourable gentlemen of GERB, who are most refined and unobtrusive that you can do nothing and ten committees to do to you, and Parliament 50% of the time to deal with your committees. If you want, let's stop this work that won't do you any propaganda. For your party activists, have party meetings, explain to them how innocent they are and what repressors and dictators everyone else are, headed by Minister Rashkov. I think this will do you a better job. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. A line? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u128	Actually, Mrs. Doncheva, exposed, huh? Horseshoes? That's the secret to the whole thing. This is about something else. This man, your acquaintance, part of your campaign, part of your party, I don't know what he was arrested for. If he is innocent, make it clear that these measures are used against anyone, that when a Boyko Rashkov comes, he can crush anyone. He's buying! There's a line. [[Heckling]] There's a line. [[Heckling]] You know it better than I do. You too. There's a line. When you arrest him, you charge him, you put him in custody, you do what you want, but when you get him used to it and you beat him up, and you humiliate him every day, like you said, that's what this committee needs to clear up. Yes, I use this word, Mr. Atanasov, because for you every word is weak, because it is important, as you said just now, that the tree should play. It's important for the Democrats to play the tree. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u129	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Second line? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Doncheva, I have always been under the impression that you are a good lawyer. I still think we are in the rule of law, the rule of law, a republic where the presumption of innocence or innocence applies. At the beginning of my speech less than half an hour ago, I urged not to label, categories, to define some people, whether they are Democrats, whether they are criminals. Why do you follow that rashkovski command from the parliamentary tribune to issue sentences? Or is Tsvetanov like that to you? [[Laughter and excitement.]] Mrs. Doncheva, you're a lawyer with quite rich parliamentary experience and legal experience, aren't you? That is why we propose to clarify all the facts and circumstances and support the efforts of the state authorities, but they are not sufficient. Because if we want to eradicate this phenomenon, we need to work together, no matter who buy votes or when, and we need to work together, including through the use of parliamentary mechanisms, as is our proposal to set up this committee. Otherwise, it is a facade democracy, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u132	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u133	All right, here we go. What in the way of conduct? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u134	I've got the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u135	There could be a third line, Mrs. Doncheva. I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u136	Dear Mrs. Atanasova, when you have created and developed to the peaks the phenomenon of buying votes, your request today that the phenomenon must be eradicated will be perceived as a Pharisee at all times and anywhere in the world. Spare us the effort. I'm explaining to you with words simple and lifelike, available to you to understand. You will really, in some time, have to humble yourself and let some other people root out the phenomenon. You can't be bearers of death how to root out something we created, developed and achieved worldwide achievements. It's not working! [[Heckling]] You, Political Party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u137	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u138	You should also be aware that when a speaker of this tribune broadcasts in the manner of speaking and in the content of how 10 times repeats, you will be eating the tree.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u139	You said it. Tatiana Doncheva. Aggression, aggression! You will achieve nothing more than to instill aggression...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u140	Mr. Manev, I beg you for tolerance!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u141	...not to say that you will fight the phenomenon. I can't tell Mr. Manev that even in the way he replicated from place, he suggested the same thing, and then you will never be perceived by the people who look at you as peaceful people who realized their colossal error. So, my dear, give others the role of factors that will fight the eradication of vote buying. There's nothing more you can do about it. You can't transfer anything from the sick head to the healthy head and you can't get cherubs out, so that's the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u143	Madam President, I would like you to tell my esteemed Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova that from this tribune it is not good to be hypocritical. She just said that the presumption of innocence should apply. When they had charges on this case years ago, I had a flash drive of Mrs. Atanasova's speeches...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u144	Mr. Genov, the manner of conduct is related to a specific disorder of order.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u145	...and I want you to tell her that. Tell her that because she's hypocritical now. We're talking about the presumption of innocence. Isn't that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u146	What's the specific violation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u147	And she was talking about it. When is she sincere now when she says that, or three or four years ago, when she and her colleagues were giving me a pound of sentences? So let the Bulgarian voters, if they are watching, hear about the great hypocrisy that was leading today in the motives for setting up this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u148	Thank you, Mr. Genov. They watch, listen, and draw conclusions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u149	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner in which you are being led. I ask you to interrupt the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who, in his speech, does not even know the point at which the debate is being debated. Let us return Mrs. Doncheva to know that it is a question that the parliamentary group of GERB proposes a draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission to clarify all the facts and circumstances for the implementation of the SRS by the Ministry of Interior in relation to Bulgarian citizens participating in the election campaign and the election process for the 46th National Assembly, and not all these volitions that she has made and the suggestion once again. If she is the President of the National Assembly, I ask you to interrupt her when she has no respect for her colleagues from this tribune. Although at times apparently with the Minister of Interior from the squares water and draw, work in the National Assembly is important and responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u150	Mr. Ivanov, I think you're crossing the line too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u151	And not to make accusations from this tribune, because she, as a lawyer, should at the very least respect the principles of innocence. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. And that wasn't the way to lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u153	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u154	Mrs. Atanasova, you have a personal explanation for Mrs. Doncheva's statement. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] But Mr. Genov does it the way he does it. There's no way in which to conduct it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u155	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u156	Personal explanation, but his wasn't a statement. By procedure, you can't make a personal explanation. You can make a personal explanation of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u157	What did he do?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u158	He did the way he was led.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u159	And do you think it was right to allow it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u160	I let him go, but I made a note that it wasn't in the way of keeping it, and it stopped.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u161	Then in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u162	Okay, the way you're leading it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u163	Thank you, Madam President, although I was going to use the procedure of personal explanation. Mr. Genov abused his right to use a procedure in the manner of conduct, pointing out and demonstrating knowledge of some past and previous period when I commented in my speeches. Mr. Genov, I have always, always maintained the right that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, which, however, does not cancel the fact that you were charged with buying votes. Is that right? That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u164	Mrs. Atanasova, please take the lead!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u165	The fact that you're innocent proved to be later, after a few years, in court proceedings. Make another reference, see carefully never, Mr. Genov, I have not delivered sentences from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take occasion from the words of Mr. Hadjigenov: where is democracy defended? Democracy is being defended everywhere in the Council of Ministers, both in parliament and in every ministry, in every institution. Democracy is a division of authorities, democracy is a rule of law, democracy is a protection of human rights. Democracy is every element of our public life, including when we look at abuse of power when we look at abuse of powers, in the case of the Ministry of Interior by Minister Rashkov. This should interest us by assumption and any arguments of the type: "What have you ever done?"....................... or conjecture of this, or Tsvetanov what he had done are untenable. The issue here is that we, in this House, can start working as MPs and as a parliament that is interested in every aspect of democracy and how our institutions evolve, see our deficits and start correcting them. We can talk until tomorrow about who has ever done what, we can go back to the early 1990s, we can have lines to the gentlemen on the left and to the gentlemen on the right, but if we are going to take the work of the National Assembly seriously, we need to see how it is possible to evolve the institutions, to establish the facts, and then in this House to adopt rules that cannot be further abused. Mr. Delchev explained that we had no evidence. It's full of evidence! There they are with specific names, with specific problems. [[directs to the left of the hall]] If this is about what these people were called for, it was some kind of protocol, no! To be called to the police to sign a declaration that you won't break the law is insane! Every day by that logic, they can call citizens to sign statements to the police that they won't commit murder or that they won't commit theft. This is insane! The law is the law, it must be observed, it is clear. To be called to the police that I will not commit a crime is insane! It is a repression and it affects the election process and influences the election process during the campaign. It must be clear how we, through committee, will establish the facts and circumstances and we will make it possible to put an end to such practices in the future. That's how institutions evolve, that's how democracy is protected! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u168	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Here you are, Mr. Baychev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u169	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Mitov, as regards the powers of which you are so keenly interested, yes, they have such powers, to use them, and I would say for the purpose of this, it is written in the Ministry of Interior Act. I think it was art. 56, if I am not mistaken for the memory of drawing up a police report, note when there is sufficient evidence to commit a crime or to violate public order, i.e. those people whom Mrs. Atanasova shows, there has been evidence that they are about to violate public order or commit a crime. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u170	Mr. Baichev, your line is Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u171	I'm telling Mr. Mitov, yes. I'm moving on. I am sure that another proof has been missed, which I advise you to add, namely, the instructions of colleague Ivan Totev how to make the ballots to be invalid. [[Loud noise.]] You mean he'll be objective right now. It's not gonna happen, it's not gonna happen! You're breaking the legal order and you want to buy elections. It's the truth! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u172	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u173	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! George Orwell. The book is written as a warning, not as a playlist. It is impressive how GERB know democracy point by point, point by point. It is impressive how they have been on the list for the destruction of democracy for the past 12 years. Now that they no longer have the opportunity to kill democracy, they scream in fury: You kill democracy! No, ladies and gentlemen, we are yet to show what democracy looks like, something that has not been done in our country. It hasn't been done! So be so kind as to behave at least a little bit. I know it's not possible. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u174	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mitov, because it was mentioned here and you mentioned the evolution of the institutions and how in this House we should accept... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u176	Mr. Manev... [[beeping loudly]] Let Mr. Mitov hear his line anyway. Please take your seats and please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u177	Thank you, Madam President. We have many texts in the Penal Code that simply do not apply for one simple reason: the prosecution always acts as a focus of those who are forced to... It's a fact. We will not be able to compensate for this huge hole in Bulgaria's legal order with committees. I recently watched one of Mr. Borisov's daily shows rarely do it to myself, but there I almost shed tears when he said well that the court remained independent. After that phrase, do you remember her: "We catch them and they let them go!" "Do you remember this fundamental phrase for Bulgarian democracy and the long war Mr. Borisov waged through various ministers of justice and internal affairs against the judges' independence?" We have now come to the conclusion that the court is independent! And thank God! Now let's make sure that the prosecution is able in all this matter to bring them in before the independent Bulgarian court and to deal with the justice system and the parliament to deal with its work. I suggest that we return to it and get to the point of adoption of our Rules, because it is very important, which is informally, without doing any procedure, please, let us move on to the next points. Thanks. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u179	One thing is clear: it is good that we come to the conclusion that in the end we must establish facts and circumstances and give them to the justice system to continue from there to deal with them and to see who is wrong and who is right. Here, I will not take any part in the subject of who would buy votes, who would not buy votes. This is a deficit in our democratic process, which we will have to root out together. I have a problem with the following: the idea is constantly abused that: You, mass by GERB. There is such a people, and other political parties are constantly urging us to stop labeling. Come on, do it yourself, please! Let's all do it, let's stop labeling whole groups of people, because we can't constantly explain how GERB and GERB are many people, and in the last elections after all the repression, many people voted for GERB over 600 thousand. people, with this low turnout and these repressions. Let's stop explaining how GERB or anyone else, with this mass perception are such or such! If there is someone who has gone outside the law, who has done something wrong to be found, to be responsible, but can not stick labels to hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. This is my request to both Mr. Hadjigenov and everyone else. There is no such thing as: you from GERB. There are specific people, specific circumstances, specific wines if it is established.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u180	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. You for what procedure? [[Reply of the National Representative Ivan Totev.]] Who, Mr. Mitov? [[Reply of the National Representative Ivan Totev.]] You can't make a personal explanation to Mr. Baychev because he was in line. You can only do Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u181	I'll give him Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u182	You and the way you keep...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u183	As you wish. [[Loud noise and lines.]] To the BSP colleague, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u184	But all you have to do is tell me what the violation I've committed is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u185	You? That you didn't interrupt him when he was telling the truth. Since the colleague in exactly one or two speeches after Mr. Genov came out, to which speech Mr. Genov told or explained the presumption of innocence, and only two statements after that we heard that we had a similar accusation of something which at least then was taken out of context and then, naturally, all investigations showed that there was no such thing. I didn't want my first outing in the 46th National Assembly to be about that, but let's clear this up. Of course, what can be referred to Mr. Genov can also be referred to at this time. That's all I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u186	Thank you, Mr. Totev. For other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u187	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I listened very carefully to the speeches so far for more than two hours. Many truths and many untruths have been said, but I am going out to the stand to say that I am amazed at the cynicism of the importers. Perhaps not exactly the word "cinism" of the importers to submit such a proposal, because in our newest 30-year history after democracy, Mrs. Atanasova, something good is happening in Bulgaria and a government, although it is a government, is fighting against an extremely vicious phenomenon. It may be a cliché what I say, but buying votes I do not know what other way to call it. And all of a sudden, when there's the will to fight this phenomenon in our political and electoral lives, some importers who've practiced this thing the most. [[strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS]] They're bringing in a proposal like this...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u188	Mr. Gokov, there are rules on who, when and how can submit draft decisions, so please, no qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u189	Of course it is. I do not take away the right of importers, only I have the right to categorize their submission of a proposal as I choose.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u190	You can't qualify him like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u191	Absolutely, yes. My constituents have given me the right to categorize all actions of all political parties, as I choose from my moral point of view. So I appreciate this introduction by looking at it and appreciating it as cynicism, because in this way, this temporary committee, the people who offer it, do not aim to reveal facts and circumstances and to defend the interests of innocent people, but to wave their finger at the minister of the service. And not so much to minister of service Boyko Rashkov, but rather to all the next ministers in all governments, that whoever dares to do such an investigation, see, we will form a temporary committee to investigate the facts and circumstances so as not to dare oppose the purchase of votes, which is clearly convenient for those who submit this proposal. I may not be right in this case, but I see nothing else in this proposal except what I said. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u192	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. For lines? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go, Mr. Manev. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Let's keep it that way... [[Loud noise.]] Mr. Manev, I think I made a remark to Mr. Gokov. Maybe something in particular you can tell me? [[Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Okay. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u193	Colleagues, I wanted to make a line for Mr. Gokov. GERB's proposal is not cynicism, it is a test, consider it a test. Last week, the right side of the room requested a committee to investigate the events and possibly police violence during the summer of last year, and we supported it. Now we ask: "Colleagues, will you agree to make a commission to investigate possible police violence during the elections" and you say: "No, we will not support it!" "Great, perfect!" That was the point! That's it! Colleagues, look, I've always thought about it and I don't know if you're going to share it, and I'm going to win the one who first stopped the violence in this country, who first stopped being a bully. Are you aware of this thing or not? This could be you, this could turn out to be GERB in the 47th National Assembly. You cannot stop it, and this country will not be reconciled as long as Bulgarians continue to harass Bulgarians, whoever they are, in any way, with any methods. Let's get this shit in our heads. Violence will stop and whoever first stops it will be a winner and he will save Bulgaria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u194	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. For a second line? I can't see. Here's your coat, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Cholakov, although most of your line was not directed towards me, but towards the people's representation, I would like to tell you that I would perhaps support such a committee, only that you have very improperly guided it to investigate some of the actions of a person for the elections to the 46th National Assembly. Well, take her to all the folk meetings, take her to buying votes back in the time that you've managed for 12 years, and then we'll support her. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] But now for the last one, for the concrete actions directed against Boyko Rashkov to support you ideas And the only line that was addressed to me for some test and to all the MPs, yes, a test, we have repeatedly subjected you. You weren't in the previous 44th National Assembly, many times we tested you on different occasions, with different committees, with different suggestions, you didn't start testing yourself or at least you didn't pass the test.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u196	When did we reject a committee?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u197	So don't test us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u198	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Manev, I'm asking for a specific violation of order...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u199	Specifically, short and specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u200	...of the procedure in today's session.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u201	Extremely short and extremely specific. Madam President, please take the protocol later.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u202	Stenogram.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u203	Yeah, the transcript. And if Mr. Gokov has given an insulting qualification to the MPs, I quote what he said, apply the Rules not with a remark, but punish him in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u204	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the discussion that has just taken place, several things have become clear. First there was fierce resistance against the formation of a temporary committee to establish certain facts and circumstances related to alarming phenomena in Bulgarian political life in recent years. The reason for this committee is something very specific, which has happened recently, but the conclusions of the committee's work could help us avoid all these practices in the future, regardless of who is managing them and who is implementing them. It is not clear why there is such a cruel resistance by those who have tabled a proposal for a temporary committee in connection with such violations and have promised that they will vote when such a proposal is tabled in this House so that we do not aggravate their committee. It is not clear why, here I quote some of the pre-speakers, accept this discussion and this proposal as a division of roles. It is also unclear why we should all agree with the statement made by this tribune that the suggestion has already been made and we should agree with it whether it is true or not, whether it is true or not. I haven't bought votes, and I haven't been involved in the practices of the last 12 years...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u206	Don't swear, don't swear!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u207	...nor in the practices that are currently in one form or another someone is trying to investigate. And I think there's nothing wrong with all of us finding out what happened, why it happened. Isn't that what this committee is all about? However, what we owe to Bulgarian citizens and what I count on all of us to take as a decision is fair and fair to enable this committee to identify the violations that have been committed, if any. And one more thing. I see reactions in this room, and I see people who might be suggesting something, maybe they're having doubts. They will have the opportunity to prove their assumptions and doubts, I sincerely hope. I also sincerely hope that we do not forget why we are here in this Parliament, because if we declare that temporary committees are unnecessary, I am proposing that we stop the action of all those we have voted on so far. Apparently their target is advertising, campaign, or just circus, show, script. I don't know. If the goal is not to establish what really happened and to create some good practices in our parliamentary life, perhaps there is no point in temporary committees. Of course, I cannot make such a decision, you will take it when you vote. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u209	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! We have listened to many speakers, and I am surprised why once again in this National Assembly there is that situation that has always occurred when those who are in charge change, whether it is after one or two mandates. Suddenly there is a pressure in those who want to take power to do exactly what other political parties did before. Colleagues, if you will do what GERB did before then, there is no need to change the management. The question arises: why do we only deal with temporary committees? Colleagues, for the simple reason that the parties that are still called parties of change have not done what is necessary to form a government and take over the entire political formation with the government. And today, from this tribune, I hear about principles, principles, principles! Colleagues, when principles are above laws, everything has already broken up in this country. We come to the question of how and how these elections were held. If with this committee we do not clear those doubts, because GERB lived with the feeling of them they always felt that there was corruption, a sense of corruption, they now feel that something else was wrong. But why do you, colleagues who first come to power, do not want to clear up the problem of buying votes during elections? I believe that some have feelings, others with doubts, and somewhere with reality this is a fact. And we, like the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, have often, as we have just told you, since 2000 and what year have we been explaining and demanding from this tribune how and in what way are the elections being bought? As in Italy, one sneaker is given in advance and then the other sneaker. And you can see right now that there is such a problem. But this time, the problem is the pressure from power structures only over certain political formations. So you're happy because the pressure wasn't on you, and I'll tell you how and how the pressure was carried out. They call the mayor, make him sign a document on the basis of which he will not participate in elections, but this is the mayor's main and legal obligation to hold elections. [[Arrival in GERB-SDS.]] The second thing. When you gather a group of minorities, especially of Turkish origin, and press it and get it to sign a document, that period occurs in his consciousness when he really forced himself to sign documents. In this way you influenced the results of these elections. I'm sorry, you should be sad, not that your voter doesn't know you, the bad thing is that you don't know him. And one more thing. I have always said that during elections we appear in elections in order to bring down power, they ask the question: "Why? " Simply! To come to power, to take power, not the Soviet Army Cup. That's why we're going to elections! And why the pressure from the force structures, colleagues? I am far from thinking that the Minister of Interior has personally ordered, so let us make this committee. Let's see why the mayor of the village of Muldova was asked the question: "Why would you want to take the power?" That's why we want to take power. Otherwise, the problem of buying the votes is if we don't start from this room with a temporary or a permanent committee, if we don't come up with those laws that will minimize the pressure, the influence of the power structures on the electoral process, there will be a situation where we are at the moment where we still wonder if there will be a government, who will support, whether there will be a coalition, or if there will be no coalition. The main thing that goes on the right side is the fault of the DPS! You're lying, guys! We have neither participated in the law on the election of the Attorney General nor the Supreme Judicial Council. This is a bill by Mr. Hristo Ivanov, according to his bill. [[Noise and lines.]] We have never hidden from you, as the other day Prime Minister Boyko Borisov said that you are involved in the government of the country...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u210	Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u211	...with your ministers, even your President Plevneliev. Colleagues, my request is: you as Democrats, so-called Democrats...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u212	What happened to Kostov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u213	... As long as you're telling lies about DPS, we won't stop telling the truth about you. [[Applause from DPS.]] And so, as you are currently wondering whether to support such a committee, harming the Minister of Interior, harming democracy, harming democracy, because if we do not cross the pressure, I am completely convinced of the person whom Mrs. Manolova removed that there is no guilt and was accused. If he's not convicted, let him come to this committee and tell himself the truth. Colleagues, I call on you: if you want the National Assembly to have the authority that we all care about and wish, if you want to govern the state by democratic methods and by law, let's start here, let's ask all those who know or don't know, doubt or feel why they have been buying votes so far, why pressure has been put on those who have never bought votes. That's why we care, colleagues, for nothing else! I call on you: we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, only want to expand not only the use of the SRS during the election campaign, we really want to go down even deeper to see why only certain political formations were pressured, their structures, on their mayors. If any of them are affected by you, let us hear them too, but, colleagues, keep up with the time. Support committee, even though it was proposed by that political formation, which during the long years for one reason or another we all remained with the feeling that it was buying votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u214	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Let's run out of procedure. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Hinoski, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u215	Madam President, honourable Members! Two and a half hours already we are discussing a point that I think has run out in all aspects. This is not the main agenda of the Bulgarian society because today we have fires on the energy exchange, bankrupt businesses, ladies and gentlemen. I propose an end to the discussions and a transition to more important topics on the agenda of the Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u216	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. I think I said it a little while ago, and you have no legal basis to end the debate until the time of each parliamentary group is exhausted. The debate continues. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u217	Madam President, honourable Members! I listened carefully to all the speeches. I want to tell you that there shouldn't even be such a debate about whether there is such a committee or not. When it comes to whether there is a political type of repression against a certain political force, it is a violation of democracy. Democrats can't be against such a committee! When you claim to be a Democrat and when, on the one hand, they tell you that there is political repression, even a priori you have to vote for this committee. This cannot be a question of both a set-up and a discussion. [[Applause and lines from DPS: "Bravo! "]] We should vote on this thing. It's a matter of principle. How can the Bulgarian Parliament discuss a question related to the imposition of political repression?! That's not acceptable at all! If you think democraticly, you would never allow it as a way of thinking, you would never allow a hypothesis to vote against this committee. On the contrary, you will always support such a committee to show that you are a Democrat to show that you are what you claim to be in Bulgarian society. That's not you! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u218	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. A proposal has been made by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. Would you like me to read it to you again? Yes or no? No. The proposal is for an addition after the word "instructions" in the name of the decision and before that. 1. Please, voting mode. They voted 201 MPs: for 85, against 48, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. Please show the results in groups. We're going to vote on the draft decision... Do you want a re-vote? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u219	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest that the point be reworded for one main reason...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u220	Not the point, but Mr. Hamid's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u221	The proposal for the establishment of the Commission to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u222	Mr. Hamid's proposal. We have not yet passed the vote on the main draft decision. Rethink Mr. Hamid's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u223	I propose that Mr Hamid's proposal be reworded for one main reason - part of his colleagues did not seem to understand this from both the debate and the way it was voted, what this proposal was for. This is not about buying votes, which has been in Bulgaria for at least 30 years. Because if some say that GERB created this practice, I will remind you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u224	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. It has become clear what your procedure is. Please don't come to the point. We've closed the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u225	Okay, can I say two sentences to argue? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u226	No, you can't say two sentences. You were in procedure, you asked for a re-vote, we understood the procedure. We're moving on to re-voting. [[National Representative Desislava Atanasova gives a sign that she has not voted.]] Cancel the vote. Mrs. Atanasova couldn't vote. Let us give each Member of the National Assembly the right to exercise his right to vote. Revoting, coworkers. They voted 212 MPs: for 83, against 64, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. Please show the results in groups. We are going to vote on the draft decision as presented by Mrs. Atanasova. Please, voting mode. Vote 215 MPs: for 82, against 69, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Please show the results in groups. Thank you. That's why the decision wasn't accepted. Are we going to the next point or do you want a break? Abort to 12.15. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u227	Colleagues, we continue with a second item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO RECOGNIZE A REPORT FROM THE GRAND PROCURER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importers suppose Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs on 27 July 2021. Who will present the draft decision? Mrs. Yordanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u228	Colleagues, I present to your attention a proposal for a decision of the National Assembly in the following sense: Project! DECISION submitting a report by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Article 91 in conjunction with Article 91 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria shall submit to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened with regard to Criminal Procedure (Criminal Procedure) for the period 1 January 2020. " 30 June 2021"
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. I'm opening the debate on this point. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u230	Honourable Members, you know that two weeks ago information was given here that the Bureau for the Protection of Persons Threatened in criminal proceedings for the last year protected exactly zero such persons. In this regard, we propose this decision to see what the Bulgarian taxpayer's money is spending on when it is not spent on what it is intended under this law. We see that the recent years are constantly taking place all kinds of prosecution actions against heavy organized criminal groups and it turns out that there are no individuals who are protected in connection with these investigations in connection with the investigations. Why? We want to see whether the money that is intended to protect persons in danger of criminal proceedings is not spent primarily and solely on the protection of the Attorney General and, if so, to take the relevant legal initiatives to end this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u231	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u232	Madam President, honourable Members! The possibility for the Attorney General to submit other reports, as described in the Constitution on Law Enforcement and Penal Policy, is actually the only possibility for the Assembly to exercise some control, some accountability rather, I would say, to the Prosecutor General, but a very palliative measure is this. Why? Because both at Constitutional level and at the Law on the Judiciary level and at the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the procedure is, I would say, with too low intensity you submit your report, examined by the Committee on Legal Affairs, presented to Parliament, ten minutes of speech of the Chief Prosecutor, issues of Members of the National Assembly and that's it. In fact, it is precisely the lack of real opportunity that the Assembly can exercise some control, some accountability with regard to the Attorney General that is the big problem of our constitutional model, because there is no possibility of mutual control and deterrent of the authorities. The Attorney General can control anyone, and no one can control the Attorney General. And if our parliament, the 46th Assembly, wants to have real public legitimacy, democratic legitimacy, especially against the backdrop of this low election result, against the backdrop of 40% voted, the only chance this legitimacy to gain is if we finally decide to do our job as a parliament, as an institution and as a society, not to have an authority in our country, and he was the chief prosecutor, who was outside or above the law and above the Constitution. In fact, with the procedure we're importing, we're going to test how far we can go. I remember in the 44th National Assembly there were literally two or three people, one of them Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Bozhankov, who dared to ask questions to the Attorney General, and that's where everything was exhausted. We must become really the rule of law, and the chance to do so is when we introduce accountability and responsibility of the Attorney General. And I will give you only one fact from the report of the Attorney General for 2020 on the implementation of the law. According to data, there is a falling intensity of exercise of functions, that is, fewer people are guarded and protected by the Bureau of Defense. However, competitions have been held for the appointment of 60 new staff at the Bureau. Falling intensity of powers, less guarded, but 60 appointed new employees! That's the kind of out of control we're talking about, that's the kind of thing that needs to be put to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u233	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. I just want to ask you, as you are importers of the draft decision.. I am reading it now...................................................................................... At what time do you want the Attorney General to present the report, as the draft decision has been proposed, he may propose to submit it next year? I'm asking you, while the debate is under way, to consider a deadline in which you want the Attorney General to submit the report. Any other speeches? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u234	To give my colleagues time to agree on what deadline to offer, and to move a little. Indeed, this desk has become a personal guard of the Attorney General and is part of the entire infrastructure of abuse of power, of uncontrollability, of reprehensibility, which has been built over the years within the judiciary along with specialized justice, along with what KKCONPI has been turned into somehow centered around the office of the Attorney General, as well as to say he, who enjoys total out-of-control. But they did turn this thing into their own private NTAC. The fact of reducing the number of protected witnesses is extremely disturbing because the forms of complex criminal activity, especially those related to corruption, are being successfully persecuted by the use of protected witnesses, and this is a global practice. The very fact that there are no such protected witnesses is that this desk, so to speak, protects one person and this is the Attorney General, and it is a really institutional perversion that we have to end. We have introduced a bill, colleague Hadjigenov has a bill to end this situation. But I still want to bring in, what's her name, something positive. Mr. Gheshev will have a chance to benefit from the services of this desk from now on. I hope that there will come a moment when he will become a protected witness, he will be ready to tell about how he was actually installed, what instructions from whom he received them and how he performed them for his role in the Eight Dwarves, an extremely important journalistic investigation, which never received any institutional adequate response. [[Applause from DB]] So that Mr. Gheshev should not be concerned about the Bureau will continue to serve him, but now in another capacity. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u235	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u236	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making an editorial proposal after the expression "Bulgaria" to add "in two-year term."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u237	Okay, 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u239	Okay. Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal made after the word "Bulgaria" to be added in 14 days. Abort the vote, there is no quorum. We're moving on to a roll call. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Simeonova Varbanova- here Alexandra Krasimirova Sterkova- here Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov- here Alexander Blagovestov Todorov- absent Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- absent Alexander Velislavov Todorov- here Alexander Victorov Rashev-- here. Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- absent Alexander Stykov Markov-- here. Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Alper Azizov Muradov- absent Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- here Andrey Nikolaev Mikhailov- here Anita Petrova Kocelova- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- missing Antoinette Andonova Stefanova- here Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- here Armaan Agop Babikan here Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bajram Yuzkan Bajram here Bilyan Borimirov Karshovski- here Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- here Boyko Lubomirov Kletchkov- here Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- absent Borislav Dimitrov Sandov- here Burhan Ilyazov Abase- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valeri Plamenov Lachowski- here Vasil Dimitrov Apostolov- here Vasil Yordanov Georgiev- here Велизар Матев Шаламанов- here Ventsislav Mihailov Asenov- here Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- here Vladimir Marinov Marinov- absent Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev- here Vladislav Panchev Panev- here Galina Ivanova Tavalyka-Georgieva- absent Galina Ivancheva Dimitrova- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Zaharinin Popov-here Georgi Yordanov Ganev-here Georgi Milchev Chepishev- here Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Gunner Nihat Ahmed here Daniel Valeriev Georgiev- here Danny Stefanova Canazireva - absent Daniel Pavlov Mitov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Deliana Valerieva Pesheva- absent Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva- here Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Jekova Taneva- absent Desislava Tsvetanova Tsoneva- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov- here Dimitar Angelov Ivanov- absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Yordanov Yanev- here Dimitar Petrov Syarov- here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Gradev-- here. Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here We're going back to voting. I think we already have a quorum so we don't waste time counting. I put to the vote Nadezhda Yordanova's proposal for a 14-day deadline for submitting the report by the Prosecutor General. Vote 154 MPs: 149, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the draft decision with the proposal already adopted. They voted 145 MPs: 143, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. With this point two of our today's program has been exhausted. Moving on to point three: PROJECT OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Mrs. Vasileva, please report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Report on the draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, submitted by the Commission. Ruler for the organization and activities of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the text on the name of the Rules of Procedure. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text for art. 1 The Commission shall support the text for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u241	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put the name of the Rules to the vote, together with art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. Vote 180 MPs: 180, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u242	"Chapter 2" Constitution of the National Assembly and changes in the management. The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter 2. The Commission shall support the text for art. 3. The Commission shall support the text for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u243	I shall put the name of Chapter Two to the vote, together with art. Art. 3 and Art. 4. Vote 177 MPs: for 177, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u244	Under art. 5 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1, t. 2 after the word "proposal" is added to a parliamentary group or a "member" group and the words "one third" are replaced by "one tenth." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u245	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 185 MPs: 38, against 124, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Please vote art. 5 as reported by Mrs. Vasileva on the Commission. They voted 183 MPs: 164, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u246	The Commission shall support the text for art. 6. The Commission shall support the text for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u247	Are there any speeches? I can't see. Please vote. They voted 173 MPs: for 173, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u248	"Chapter 3" "Leadership of the National Assembly". The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The President of the National Assembly in the exercise of the powers under art. 77, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 78, p. 1 of the Constitution: 1. distribute the bills and other proposals submitted to the National Assembly between its committees according to their subject; 2. certify the content of the acts adopted by the National Assembly; 3. certify by its signature the stenographic minutes of the meetings of the National Assembly; 4. exercise control over the issue of the Official Gazette; 5. determine the seats in the Chamber for the Members of Parliament, divided by parliamentary groups, for the members of the Council of Ministers, the President and Vice-President of the Republic; 6. ensure the order in the plenary; 7. organise the establishment, implementation and reporting of the budget of the National Assembly; 8. provide the necessary conditions for the activities of the committees of the National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly; 9. approve the classification of the positions in the National Assembly and the number of administration in the National Assembly; 10. appoint and dismiss the Secretary-General of the National Assembly with a period until the election of the President of the next National Assembly, the staff to the President's office, as well as the staff to the chambers of the Vice-Presidents and the parliamentary groups on their proposal; 11. establish rules for the work of the administration of the National Assembly; 12. establish rules for the organisation and order for carrying out verification of the declarations of parliamentary officials under the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and for establishing conflict of interest; appoint a commission of officials in the administration of the National Assembly, which, based on an assessment of the corruption risk or signal, carries out checks; 13. lay down the rules on the internal order in the buildings of the National Assembly and the use of the material base; 14. control the internal and external security of the National Assembly, which is placed under his authority; 15. monitor compliance with these Rules; 16. performs other functions assigned to him by the Constitution, the laws and these Rules. (2) The Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly shall assist the President and carry out the activities assigned by him. (3) The President of the National Assembly shall, in consultation with the Conference of Presidents, appoint by written order the Vice-Presidents who shall take part in the management of the National Assembly meetings for the relevant week. (4) When the President of the National Assembly decides to entrust the Vice-Presidents with continuous implementation of activities under para. 1, it shall issue a written order to distribute these activities to each other. (5) In the absence of the President of the National Assembly, he shall instruct one of the Vice-Presidents to replace him and, where not done, he shall be replaced by the Vice-President, who shall be broadcast by the largest parliamentary party or coalition. (6) In the event of the Chair's participation in the deliberations on a matter, the meeting shall be chaired by a Vice-President appointed by him. In this case, the President may not lead the meeting before the vote or the conclusion of the discussion on this matter. (7) The President of the National Assembly may establish advice on specific topics for the purpose of analysis and concrete proposals under the legislation. The organisation, activity and composition of the councils shall be determined by rules established by the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u249	Report the remaining members to Chapter Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u250	The Commission shall support the text for art. 9. The Commission shall support the text for art. 10. Under art. 11 There is a proposal from the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Atanas Slavov, which is withdrawn. A proposal from MP Iva Miteva, which is supported. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. The Quaestors of the National Assembly: 1. carry out the orders of the President to maintain order in the Chamber and on the balconies thereto; 2. assist the Secretaries of the National Assembly in counting votes in open voting, in the technical organisation in secret voting and in voting with the computerised system outside the cases under art. 60, para. 3 assist them in preventing the vote by foreign card; 3. ensure that only MPs, members of the Council of Ministers and persons admitted by the National Assembly are present in the plenary; 4. carry out the orders of the President to maintain order in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I would like to consider the proposal in art. 8, p. 10 regarding the Secretary-General, and I think, Madam President, that you, as a long-standing civil servant, will understand me. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 116, para. 1 civil servants are performers of the will and interests of the people. In the performance of their ministry, they are required to be governed only by the law and to be politically neutral. With the proposal you have made in a working group, you propose that the President of Parliament appoint and dismiss the Secretary-General of the National Assembly by the deadline until the election of the President of the next National Assembly, i.e. you introduce him to a term of office at the best of four years. The principles governing the public service are legality, loyalty, responsibility, stability, stability, political neutrality. The text thus envisaged violates both the principle of stabilisation and political neutrality. The meaning and role of the Secretary-General, and it is no coincidence that those who remember, a number of recommendations in the negotiation process for accession to the European Union in Bulgaria were in terms of stability and political neutrality of the public service, and the Secretary-General are the ones who need to ensure continuity between political leadership and administration. In fact, with this text, the Secretary-General, who is a senior civil servant, is aligned as a member of the political cabinet to the President of Parliament. And I think this will neither lead to stability nor will it lead to the political neutrality of this civil servant. So my suggestion is to remain the old text that was once art. 8, p. 12: appoint and dismiss the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, the officials to the President's office, as well as the staff to the office of the Vice-Presidents and the parliamentary groups on their proposal. I really do not believe that this is the right decision and this will not lead to calm, stability, legality and political neutrality of the employees in parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. I want the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u255	I have explained to the Commission very thoroughly what this supplement requires in this point. First of all, the employees of the National Assembly are a slightly special category of employees, since under the Administration Act and the Civil Service Officer they apply to the state administration, in so far as the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have not decided otherwise, moreover, that it is of the rank of law. That is why the employees of the National Assembly enjoy the name "Parliamentary employees." You know that their status is very different. Most of them are in employment; in the committees they are in employment. That's what I'm talking about. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8 and the place where the Secretary-General is placed, he is placed really equal to the staff in the parliamentary groups, in the cabinet, that is, you see that he was not originally placed where the parliamentary staff are at the end of the parliamentary regulations. On the other hand, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly himself, in accordance with the Rules of the National Assembly, has a slightly more special function, unlike the Secretary-General in the ministries, because when the National Assembly is disbanded and there is none, then in this case the Secretary-General shall exercise the powers of President of the National Assembly. Given that the National Assembly may be the most political body in the country, I think that it really should be handled differently here. It is a fact that in this case the amendment is provoked by a specific case with the Secretary-General appointed by GERB in 2009, who was released, he was paid benefits, then returned to the National Assembly, was sent by agreement to the Ministry of Justice, released by your President of Parliament Tsveta Karayancheva and now again appealed. So he got over $30,000. lv. compensation, now a second time is expected, since you know that these exemptions usually lead to some vices in them, it will be restored again and again the National Assembly, if it does not want to work with it, should have to pay over 30.. 40 thousand. lv. compensation. I don't think it's right. What we have spoken in the Commission is that perhaps we really should conceptually think about it, because in the National Assembly we can solve the problem and given the figure and peculiarity of the Secretary-General here can happen, but this problem, believe me, is seen with enormous power in the executive power, especially in the regulatory bodies. I'm hearing about colossal amounts being paid for benefits right now, and they were paid off years ago. So you really need to do an examination and decide how... I am not saying that the chief secretaries should not be civil servants, yes, they are the directors of the administration, they are the highest civil servants, and perhaps they should remain such, but some mechanisms must be considered to prevent and limit any abuse further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. The line, Mrs. Atanasova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u257	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Miteva, outside the context of this case, with an apparently unlawful order issued under the Administrative Procedure Code, after the court has considered it to be such, and the benefits that have been paid, I do not know the case in detail, I assume that you, as former director of the Directorate, have been sought at least for legal advice...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u258	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u259	Or if you haven't, you know about another case in detail. The payment of benefits, including for wrongful dismissal or termination of employment or employment, is different from the payment of benefits for unused leave, which we have commented on many times. As far as I know, the case in detail is in that sense. I therefore believe that we should not draw conclusions on a single occasion which clearly contradict the logic of the administration of the National Assembly and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, respectively, no matter what composition it is in. I really believe that Mrs Zaharieva's argument is correct and, in this sense, I believe that point 8 or 10 should remain in the part in which more than 20 years has been in operation, because I have checked parliamentary practice back in the years, perhaps 20 years ago the Secretary-General of the National Assembly was indeed dismissed after the completion of the term of office early or regularly of each President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u261	Thank you. I think Mrs. Miteva understands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u262	Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u263	I understand the arguments for solving, unfortunately it has happened before, but I do not accept them in a specific case with the amendment of the Rules, which, as a lawyer, I am aware and I know very well that it is by the power of law. I am also aware that the Law on the Civil Service and the Law on the Administration applies to the extent that the Rules do not apply. But they're government officials. And yet we have art. 116, para. 1 of the Bulgarian Constitution, which is very clear: if we want to have a politically neutral and professional and stable public service, it is not right to decide a specific case with a specific Secretary-General. And you're right, Mrs. Miteva, and in the ministries we've had such situations, we've had adjourned with previous ministers, they're coming back, but that doesn't mean that we have to ban the right to a fair trial and that the state administration then, when it decides, or the appointing authority to terminate the service, it doesn't have to do so under the law. So I'm really asking you to think about this one more time. What's more, you have a Secretary General you've appointed. It's a matter of principle here. We really need to create a stable, politically neutral public service. And the chief secretaries, and exactly what Mrs. Atanasova recalled, yes, 20 years ago it was. And then with good practices, with recommendations from the European Union and from our partners we have taken these good practices. In other parliaments, there are Secretary-Generals of 20 years. They are the highest professional civil servants who need to ensure predictability and stability of the administration of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u265	Yeah, he had a mandate. In 2001, when the Law on the Civil Service was adopted, there was a mandate of the Secretary-General. That was during the SDS, because that's when this law was passed. But when the NDSV came, the first job was to remove the mandates of the chief secretaries and to do, including in the National Assembly, all committees and collaborators to the committees were government officials. It was then decided that, since the political body National Assembly and the MPs of the Committees had to choose teams, then these colleagues were suspended and they have been in employment since 2001, so the issue is very serious and very conceptual. The Secretary General of the National Assembly at each term has been replaced.. there is nothing to be lied to, including this example that I am giving you is with your Secretary General, which you have appointed, you have removed, and we have to pay several times benefits to the same person because you have not removed it as people. I'm sorry, but it's an absolute sacrilege with taxpayers' money, that's a lot of money. The salary of the Secretary-General, I said in the Commission, in your mandate, at the 44th National Assembly, was set higher than the salary of the President of the National Assembly. I don't think that an employee, whatever he is, in whatever position he is, should receive a higher salary than the head. The same problem, as far as I know, is in the Council of Ministers. This is unacceptable! Therefore, I think that the issue of remuneration should really be put on a conceptual basis and reviewed, so I think that here, starting from the particular case, we are solving a deeper problem. I really believe that the Secretary General of the National Assembly is not the typical civil servant who is in the executive power. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Statements or other suggestions? Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u267	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Miteva, as if I am inclined to agree with you on the Secretary General of the National Assembly, although the issue is really conceptual and it is not nice to remove one Secretary-General from the group of other Secretary-Generals, but whatever. There is some resonance. However, I would like to take account of art. 8, para. 7 and I will ask you for your understanding, for your personal understanding of what I intend to say. The National Assembly's appeal may create advice on specific topics for the purpose of analysis and concrete proposals under the legislation.................................... and this has been discussed many times, and it is a practice in the National Assembly, as far as I know, to attract external expertise on some specialized topics on which the people's representation needs additional knowledge and additional consultation, so the proposal is resonous and correct. However, don't you think it would be right for the President of the National Assembly to respect the Members of the National Assembly, yet the initiative to set up such a council to come from a specific committee and not the President himself, on his own initiative, to assess what additional expertise the People's Representation needs? Figuratively speaking, the People's Representation shall request such expertise and the President shall assist him in organising it. In this sense, my formal proposal is to add after the first sentence the President of the National Assembly can create advice on specific topics for the purpose of analysis and concrete proposals on the legislation at the initiative of the European Parliament. It sounds kind of like the President, you know, remains a very unpleasant taste as if the President is judging himself where the people's representation has a deficit and he provides it. Let there be some co-operation, please, for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u268	Mrs. Miteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u269	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. I never thought these tips would be created completely alone and completely authoritarian. Here the idea was to replace the Advisory Council, which for years did not work, was not created and was previously in a permanent composition, mainly by lecturers at universities. Here the idea is really on specific topics, when an issue arises, as the judiciary is currently being discussed, to attract the best specialists from the theory, naturally from the practice, and we have always talked even to attract people from the lower levels, because there are real problems, including from civil society and these advices to be colored. That's why it's possible to create the right option. That's why it's the right option. Of course the initiative will come from the committees, from the MPs and I say it quite openly here with you, because indeed the President cannot know everything, and he cannot have the initiative alone, so I am really open. But I'm worried that in one record, by MPs and committees, in one case or another, we should not limit the text or give a huge freedom to ask for any advice every day. Here the idea is really when they have sick problems, as is the theme of health, the theme of social policy, the theme of education. Yes, they are opened, these advices are made, naturally with your suggestions, naturally I will discuss with all the compositions of these advices. Therefore, the rules will also be laid down by the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, all of you have Vice-Presidents so that we can all participate in this process. My dream is really that these tips work and be in the help of us MPs and do what needs to be done. In fact, I've turned around a number of times, and I wanted the Rules to sign up, including with regard to the Conference of Presidents...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u270	Time, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u271	...I should be obliged to report commitments and incurred expenses so that the people's representation can truly know what funds are being spent and what signatures I put under the documents. Because I believe that the President of the National Assembly is the first among the equal. I have basically representative, you know, certification, organizational functions...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u272	Mrs. Miteva, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u273	...so that's why I'm going to report you all the time. I promise and I make a commitment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u274	Mr. Cholakov, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u275	I wish, Mrs. Miteva, we could still write down my proposal, what I proposed at the initiative of the relevant committees. I believe you will not abuse, but still the recording is:.................................................................................., right?.................................... [[Noise and lines from IHN.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u276	Offer a text, Mr. Cholakov. Propose a text!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u277	I suggested it, but she's offering me something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u278	Nothing to record. We'll put it to the vote. [[Noise and lines from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u279	That's what it's writing now. [[Noise and lines from IHN.]] No, don't. Look, I've made my proposal: Why, look, I'm telling you this from my point of view. Again, I trust you that you will not abuse, but I would find it extremely unpleasant, extremely unpleasant, an area in which I believe that I have the competence of purely professional competence to learn tomorrow that you have appointed expert advice from experts that I do not know or who are appointed to some subjective criteria. I would take that as a flagrant disrespect for the people's representation. Do you understand my idea? I therefore say that it is good for the initiative to create advice to come from below from a permanent committee that feels the need for further expertise and not for the chair of parliament to tell a whole committee: this committee what expertise it needs. Do you understand my idea? That's it. My formal proposal is to add: a comma on a commission proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u280	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. A statement? Here you go. Procedure? I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u281	Madam President, I suggest we call off the debate. It is clear that here we will almost reach consensus on these points. So we better vote on the Rules and work on it further. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] )
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u282	Are there any other statements and suggestions for additions? I say we put it to the vote, Art. 8. We shall start with the amendment proposal in art. 8, p. 10. It's Mrs. Zaharieva's offer. It offers the text of the t. 10 to be maintained in the form in which it has been so far, in the sense of dropping the charge with the term until the election of the President of the next National Assembly. Vote 166 MPs: 45 against 105 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. The text proposed by the Commission remains. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me? For t. Ten, we're talking. Now we're going to al. 7 of art. 8. [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr Cholakov, namely: the National Assembly on a proposal from the Standing Committees on specific topics for analysis and concrete proposals on legislation. Vote 166 MPs: 51, against 95, abstention 20. Mr. Cholakov's proposal is denied. Now we're going to vote art. 8 as proposed by the Commission and Chapter Three, if we have not voted on it, the name of Chapter Three. [[Reply by National Representative Victoria Vasileva: "All Chapter Three! "]] We vote the whole Chapter 3 with art. 9, 10 and 11, which are supported by the Commission. Vote 162 MPs: 124, none, abstention 38. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u283	'Chapter 4'Parliamentary Groups'. The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text for art. 12. Under art. 13 there is a proposal from the MP Iva Miteva, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) Each parliamentary group shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a decision on its formation and a list of the management and of the members signed by all Members of the Group. (2) Parliamentary groups, their guides and changes thereto shall be entered in a public register. (3) The President of the National Assembly shall announce the registered parliamentary groups and their guides at the first meeting of the National Assembly, as well as the changes thereto, immediately after their registration. (4) Permanent assistants of the parliamentary groups shall be appointed as members of the National Assembly. Their number shall be confirmed by the President, according to the number of parliamentary groups, in a ratio of 1:10 but not less than two per parliamentary group. Where the number of a parliamentary group is not a multiple of 10, the number of permanent assistants to the group shall be determined by rounding it to the larger number, multiple of 10. The Commission shall support the text for art. 14. The Commission shall support the text for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote Chapter 4 with Articles 12 to 15. Vote 161 MPs: 159 against 1, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u285	"Head of the 5th Committees of the National Assembly." The Commission supports the text on the name of Chapter Five. Under art. 16 there are proposals made by various MPs. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The National Assembly shall elect permanent and temporary committees from its composition.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u286	Mrs. Vasileva, read the unsupported part of this section. 1, 7 and 8 of Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u287	Proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "1." point 3 is amended as follows: "3." Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation; 7. Item 19 is amended as follows: "19." Commission on the interaction with civil society, complaints and petitions; 8. Item 20 is amended as follows: It's 20. Committee on Human Rights and Religions; There is a proposal made by Alexander Alexandrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Nadezhda Yordanova and Atanas Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text in principle and proposes the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The National Assembly shall elect permanent and temporary committees from its composition. (2) The Standing Committees of the National Assembly shall be: 1. Budget and Finance Committee; 2. Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs; 3. Committee on Economic Policy, High Technology and Tourism; 4. Energy and Climate Committee; 5. Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; 6. Committee on Foreign Policy; 7. Committee on European Union Affairs; 8. Defence Committee; 9. Internal Security and Public Order Committee; 10. Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Electronic Communications Act; 11. Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry; 12. Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; 13. Committee on Education, Science, Children's Issues, Youth and Sports; 14. Committee on Health; 15. Committee on the Environment and Water; 16. Transport and Communications Committee; 17. Commission on Digitalisation, Electronic Governance and Information Technologies; 18. Committee on Culture and Media; 19. Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society; 20. Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens; 21. Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad. (3) The National Assembly may make changes in the type, number and composition of the Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u289	Madam President, honourable Members! Our parliamentary group has repeatedly proposed the creation of a Committee on Tourism in the Commission. This is an initiative of our colleague from Burgas "Zhivko Tabakov," but we believe that tourism has a sufficiently serious contribution to Bulgaria's gross domestic product, a serious industry that is systematically neglected because it is basically behind the smallest ministry, the most modest ministry in Bulgaria. At the same time, the problems with the Kovid crisis and in general everything that has happened in these two years have caused severe damage to the industry. In our view, it is necessary to set aside in these years such a committee to deal directly and solely with the problems, to deal with them and to be a kind of parliamentary backdrop of this important and significant sector of our economy. We rely on the plenary's support for our proposal to remain and hold the proposal, in accordance with the original text of the Rules, to be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u290	Am I to understand, Mr. Yonchev, that you are making a proposal to separate the Committee on Tourism from the Committee on Economic Policy and High Technology?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u291	The proposal is to vote on the initial text set out in the Rules of Procedure Project, where there is a point on the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u292	Yeah, for splitting up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u293	And the Committee on Economics to remain the Committee on Economics and Innovation or as formulated.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u294	High-tech. Yes, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u295	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In active mode some of our proposals have been rejected. However, I am impressed with the proposed committees in this form, especially the ones about science, education, children, youth and sport. This is some kind of mega committee that is being set up, and you very well know that only a portfolio of mega committees is a very sensitive concept. There's a lot of work to be done there. You know our efforts, we have proposed many times, five times in plenary, the Youth Draft Law, which has never reached the examination here in this Chamber, has not been accepted. And I am making a formal proposal to have the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports again and not to attach it to education and science because there is some mega committee with too many tasks that I do not see how will be resolved within a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Here you go, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u297	Ladies and gentlemen! There is no election campaign in which someone has not promised reduction of public administration. As we all know that the reduction of the state administration is much more difficult than the reduction of parliamentary committees, I see that what dominates us in discussing the number and type of parliamentary committees is And that is why I am making you a proposal.. to make 240 committees, each one to be chairman of a committee on his own and to continue to talk about reducing the state administration, the cars, the presidents and whatever you want. [[Laughter and raging]] [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u298	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u299	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is in the manner of leading to the honourable President........ to adhere very strictly to the Rules of Procedure and to the words of the Rules of Procedure............................................... the Rules of Procedure.................................................................................................... These proposals are not editorial. They surround the law and use the editing procedure by offering entirely new texts. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u300	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Here you go. [[Heckling]] Maybe Mrs. Doncheva with 240 committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u301	Madam President, honourable Members! As there is no election campaign in which there is no political force that does not promise a reduction in public administration, so there is no election campaign in which there is no political power that does not say that education and science will be a priority. The Committee on Education and Science in the previous parliaments was one of the most intensive workers, one of these committees, which has rejected an enormous amount of work, in which almost always consensus has been reached between all political parties and decisions are taken by a huge majority. One of the committees that did something real because the standard of living of the Bulgarian teachers and the authority of the Bulgarian scientists was rising in recent years, and that is obvious. This is a very heavy committee. I do not know the Commission for Youth and Sports how it worked, but as a person who worked directly with the Committee on Education, I can tell you that this is an extremely heavy committee. If you want to blend committees, merge small committees with small laws for them, with small ministries and so on. The establishment of a mega commission will be to the detriment of the Bulgarian voter, will be to the detriment of the Bulgarian society, will be to the detriment of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u302	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u303	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I know that in today's hot political debate the creation of the Commission on Digitalisation, Information Technology and Electronic Governance will not receive the necessary response, but this is a key step. First of all, I would like to congratulate all my fellow Members who supported the proposal for the establishment of such a committee, because this is something for which we from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are fighting from the previous short 45th National Assembly, and now is the time to achieve it. It is high time that more than a billion and a half leva funds were invested in electronic control, which is still missing, these processes stopped being controlled by analog people. It is high time to show that we can really have an administration that knows how to integrate its registers, knows how to help the business, knows how to work with the services for citizens, as it is not enough to say that a process is digital by putting it in PDF and showing it on some computer. It must really be measurable as indicators, as a process for its effectiveness towards citizens, as well as towards business. The word "digitalization" should not frighten us. In fact, Bulgaria has committed itself to meeting the standards of the so-called Startup Nations standard within two years. It's something we all have to stand for here and fight for. The establishment of the Standing Committee on Digitalization, Information Technology and Electronic Governance is one major step for both the transformation of the administration and a signal to the business that we want to achieve digitalization of the economy, to achieve production and services with high added value and to continue with this development for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u304	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u305	Madam President, honourable Members! Two thirds of the National Assembly, from the sovereign, as we like to say, from the political representation, is consolidated around the need for changes, but this is the political context of the processes we want, and the administrative, bureaucratic or what lies ahead of us is the formation of committees. The name of change is called reforms. If you want to make reforms, you will get our support. Reforms in many sectors are necessary for Bulgaria, but the conditions for reforms are at least two. Firstly, a very broad agreement that will also be reflected in a parliamentary majority. Secondly, to make such a debate to convince most of us that this is necessary. In this sense, considering the design of the importer and the title of the Committee on Environment and Climate, I see that the climate has not been set...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u306	And the waters...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u307	Sorry, energy and climate, it's my fault because I'm thinking in a different direction. I see that the climate has been removed from its systematic place in terms of environmental issues. A lot of arguments can be made. I don't know what the presumption is. I do not want to provoke the process of constructing working committees in the National Assembly, but at the moment I am tempted to make an offer to release the climate, but I would rather do otherwise, I would like to hear the arguments of the importer and I would like to tell you why. The climate and climate change are categorically the Lightmot of the Green Pact, of the circular economy, of the future green development of Bulgaria, only at the moment the Directorate of Climate Change Policy is the national authority responsible for the implementation of these policies both before the European Union and before the United Nations. That is why tearing or dismembering separate horizontal policies in another committee will, in my opinion, lead to more difficult work. I mean, if we make reforms, we can't reproduce old reflexes. What do I mean? For many years, environmental policies have not been perceived as horizontal, pervasive to all other activities and sectors of policy, but have been seen as something abducted, sideways, which we have very often underestimated. So understanding that the topic of climate and the environment is all-intrusive, it is horizontal, it goes through one cut of all policies. Bringing climate out as a separate piece to the Energy Commission, we must have the knowledge and the idea that the impact of climate change in the agriculture sector, in the water sector, in the food sector is extremely high. This means that the climate could stick it to any such committee. That is why I would like to hear from the importer once again, but if the Energy Commission remains as by this name, I think we will be more adequate. In conclusion, the climate is indeed a leading topic, I hope, in the future Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u308	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u309	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, not on behalf of the importer, although it seems that the Commission has supported precisely the name But it is particularly important in terms of the sector that has the greatest effect, with the most emissions of greenhouse gases. In this sense, Bulgarian policies, for example, the Integrated National Plan is called.................................... the European Commission makes policies, strategies related to energy and climate. I think it is quite adequate, in keeping with time and in the spirit that this Parliament wants Bulgaria to actually walk in this aspect of transformation, it would be right for the Bulgarian National Assembly to set up precisely such a committee. I would be braver and I would even suggest setting up a committee just for the climate, but in order not to bloat, so it doesn't get too much, let it stay that way. I call on you not to make an official proposal for the removal of the floor from the name of this committee and to keep it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u310	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Any other lines? For a line or a statement? For a statement, okay, but Mr. Delchev was before you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u311	Thank you. The hole is to Mr. Sandov with the agreement that I asked to hear the will of the importer. I don't know if his speech and cue replaces the will of the importer? But, of course, Mr. Sandov, the share of the contribution to the climate change of each sector of transport, aviation, energy, undoubtedly energy has the largest share. But this means that we still do not recognize that environmental policies are horizontal for all human activity. We will not make a proposal to change the name of the committee. You've heard our arguments and I hope to get to the truth in working order. It's important to have committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u312	And they're working. Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Delchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u313	Madam President, honourable Members! There is no doubt that the debate and the participation of many MPs at this very point is delightful, satisfying, because the committees are the place where the people's representative does the meaningful work, namely the work that people expect from him or not. Not just banter, namely forging professionally made and prepared laws. I think it is quite good that most colleagues are here and are involved in clearing the names of the committees and how many to be and who to be. I support the proposal of my colleague Rumen Yonchev to establish a separate Committee on Tourism and I will tell you why. Tourism is an important and key sector for the Bulgarian economy as well as key sectors for the Bulgarian economy energy, transport and others. But unlike energy and transport, in the text proposed by the Commission, tourism does not have a separate committee. Energy, on your proposal, will have a separate ministry, transport will have a separate ministry, but tourism will not have a separate ministry. [[Heckling]] There's a ministry, but there's no separate committee. I mean, there's some disparity between the different sectors, some discrimination. However, let us not forget that we are talking here about a sector that brings the country between 10 and 15% of gross domestic product. Let us not forget that we are talking about a sector that has suffered a lot from the Kovid crisis and we will still have to take proactive action to restore the tourism sector, to raise Bulgaria again and to win again and to make a lot of money in competition with Greece, Turkey and other countries that are much better tourism than us. Just two more remarks to make. The first is that I understand the Commission's desire and the leadership of the National Assembly to achieve some savings in the number of committees, but just to point out that in the previous National Assembly the committees were 23, now there are 21. That is, we cannot talk about some drastic cutting of committees, we cannot go out and boast: you see, we removed the Committee on Tourism and suddenly became very economical, very effective and we saved huge money to the Bulgarian taxpayers. And the second thing I'd like to draw your attention to. He's not right... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u314	Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u315	DPS colleague Hamid is wrong, because there was a time limit within which proposals could be made between the two readings. Within this period, the Tourism Committee was present in the main text, the Tourism Committee is not present in the text just now. Therefore, I ask you to accept the editorial remarks of my colleague Yonchev and I call on my colleagues to show wisdom and for the tourist sector to have its normal representation in the 46th National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u316	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. This is not an editorial amendment, but a return to the main import text. He's an importer. I'd like to pay attention to the entire Temporary Commission. Are there any lines for Mr. Delchev? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u317	Madam President, honourable Members! I, too, understand the desire of our colleagues from "There is such a people" to reduce the number of committees, but it is unlikely that reducing this number will increase the quality of the work of the MPs in them. I would like to support my colleague Chenchev's proposal to split the mega committee on education and science, children, youth and sport, because we are risking the creation of such a mega committee part of the sectors and the topics that will affect the work of this committee to be seriously underestimated. Only on youth issues, I would like to point out that three ministries are involved. In addition to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, much of the activity in this sector falls to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science. I understand that you do not underestimate this sector after proposing to have a separate ministry in your plans is included a separate ministry for youth and sport, so I ask all colleagues to take into account the seriousness and responsibility of the work of the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. From personal experience, I am telling you that colleagues in the past years have been extremely busy, have had a lot of work, so the point of such a committee is undeniable. Let us not underestimate these important sectors that are linked to the development of youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u318	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Unfortunately, we've left 16 committees, but I think we've failed. Here you go, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u319	Colleague Kralev, are you for the first term in Parliament to have an impression first of what a mega commission is? Because half the committees we named them mega, and they're not mega. The mega are the busiest committees. In exactly one month we will face the situation of not having people for a third of the so-called committees. Because we will or will not, we will gather the serious members of parliament in the real committees and for a third of these committees, which I call pure decoration, and you call them mega because they have no law in four years. This thing is shown backwards in time. I can't understand the tech issues of the Assembly when it doesn't matter who is managing and who is in opposition to whether we saw it in 1995, in 2005, in 2015, or in I don't know who you are, that's the situation. If that's the case, I'm sorry, we just don't have to make brushes. We could have a Commission for Children, Commission for Youth, Commission for Education, Commission for Secondary Education, so I don't know what kind of education. Therefore, I suggest: let us see candidates for committee chairmen that they will not have a bill at all for four years. I sign you under this, and you load them with whatever you want. If you want with any social contacts, if you want with endless meetings that have nothing to do with parliamentary activity, if you want to burden them with teambuildings, with other things. With this you can fill their time, but with legislative activity there is no way to fill it. This has been proven since 30 years of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u321	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kralev, my line is in the spirit of what Mrs. Doncheva said. However, I do not understand, because if we follow the logic that the number of committees is reduced and merged in order to obtain a more qualitative activity over the next four years, then the resonant question is: why is this not done in the coming days in the presentation of the Draft Cabinette and its respective vote in plenary? However, among other things, I would like to draw attention to what Mrs Doncheva said that the legislative initiative belongs to each of the MPs, as well as the Council of Ministers. So in this sense, expecting the majority of change to work better than anyone before it, we expect, Mrs. Doncheva, that there will be many, many bills concerning these portfolios, as well as bills concerning education, youth, sport, tourism and so on, as well as the Council of Ministers. Here we have colleagues, the candidate for prime minister himself is here, as well as the candidate minister for sport, and other colleagues, count on them to have serious legislative initiatives, that is, we must try to meet their expectations and intentions for serious changes in a number of laws. In this sense, I propose that we support the proposal and I propose a separate vote on all points that are the subject of debate. The undisputed can be voted together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, that's what I was going to do. For the third line, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u323	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kralev, in your speech earlier perhaps you should have been a little more specific and more general so that the colleague, the respected Mrs. Doncheva, can understand how important it is to have a separate Commission on Children's Affairs, Youth and Sports. One such neglect and speech of the kind that, you see, this committee legislative nothing has worked is more of a madman. In the 44th National Assembly, I was a representative of the Committee on Youth, Children and Sports, and I can tell you that only more than a year ago, we adopted an extremely difficult law. Yes, Mrs. Doncheva, you are smiling again, but each one of us as a candidate for the MP stands before his constituents with concrete promises and they all contain a promise of better development of sport, a better future for our children, prevention of all sorts of addictions. Coming to this meeting, we're deciding on one such committee, almost neglecting it and reuniting it with some other committee. Well, maybe there is a resonant in this proposal, but then I would recommend to the constructors and the new government why don't we bring together both ministries then?? The Ministry of Education and Science together with the Ministry of Sports, if the sport for the new authorities is anything else, but it's not that important?! Therefore, Mr. Kralev, I ask you to be more specific and to tell you in more detail, as Minister of the Sports Ministry, and we, as members of the Commission, how much work we have done so that Bulgaria can really be proud of what is being done. We are currently in the days of the Olympics and at least it is not appropriate in these days to simply throw the Commission of Sports and Youth to the Commission of Education and Science. It's not normal for both committees! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u324	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. For the duvet, Mr. Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u325	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To apologize first to Mr. Chenchev for supporting his proposal, because we see again unprincipled behavior for everything that GERB supported, colleagues jump against him. I know that Mrs. Doncheva has no idea how the Commission works on children, youth and sport. I understand this thing, but this is not the reason why the Commission does not know the Commission's activities to impose its closure or merger in another sector. The functions in this committee are also legislative. Members of the National Assembly have quite often called on the Minister of Youth and Sport to control his activities every month. Separately, there are many important topics ahead, yet I say, on the issues of youth. The adoption of a National Youth Strategy is forthcoming, the adoption of a new Youth Act. I suppose these topics will be discussed, so do not make any sense to the work of a committee that you do not know specific details of its activities. Many colleagues have been engaged over the last seven years with this work, for which I personally thank them. Members of the National Assembly have always been a corrective to our work. We really managed to make a pretty decent law. There are still a lot of legislative initiatives to come in the forthcoming Parliament, I hope, so that the quality of work can be improved exclusively, especially in the sector of.................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u326	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Maybe I know best how it was working under that law because it went through me and I think I got it out. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u327	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time until the work under the Law is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u328	The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 16 and acceptance of committees?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u329	On the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u330	Are you suggesting the whole point?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u332	A counteroffer? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, there will certainly be a lengthy, reasoned debate under the Rules, and at the same time there are committee meetings scheduled. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] Then my suggestion is to extend the hours to 3:00 p.m. Is that okay? [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Yes, we withdraw it. "]] So you're withdrawing yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u334	If you want to finish this chapter or by 3:00?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u335	Yeah, by 3:00. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u336	Okay, by 3:00. We are voting on Mr. Bikov's proposal. Voting mode. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Cancel the vote. I suggest we just finish with art. 16 and take a look at the committees today. [[Noise and lines.]] I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the working day until the end of art. 16 The adoption of the committees. Vote 167 MPs: 144, against 20, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u337	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I am making a procedure to put an end to the debates on this article and to move on to committee votes. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u338	Since we are already in the mode of a draft decision, which is a kind of second vote, it can make such a proposal to end the debate. [[noise and lines:? He can't make such a proposal.?]] I'll put it to the vote. Please vote on the proposal to end the debate under art. 16. Vote 168 MPs: 129 against 28, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Delchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u339	Madam President, honourable Members! To end the debate now means not being able to all the MPs who want to propose editorial proposals. This is not about lengthy speeches that seem too long to you and take up your time. We have to be here to work. This is about editorial proposals that are important and valuable for the text of art. 16, so I'm asking you to reschedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u340	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Mr. Svilensky, we're already in re-election procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u341	With these arguments, there can be no re-voting. It says when you can only if you can't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u342	There's no such thing. I'm re-voting Mr. Delchev's proposal to re-vote the procedure. Vote 177 MPs: 48, against 75, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Zhelyazkov wanted the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u343	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making the following editorial proposal: I am admiring the establishment of a committee for the purpose of digitalisation, electronic management, information technology, and at the same time in the version of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 3 The Committee on Economic Policy, High Technology and Tourism is envisaged. I ask you to accept the argument that information technology is part of high technology, part of the Haitian, and that there is a collision in the subject of activity of the two committees. Therefore, my formal, editorial proposal is for the Committee on Economic Policy, High Technology and Tourism to remain the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, etc. 17 The Commission should adopt the following name........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u344	Do you have a line? A statement. Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u345	Madam President, honourable Members! Indeed, one editorial proposal and at the insistence of the organizations of Bulgarians outside the country. In fact, the term with which they define themselves is: the Bulgarians outside the country and not abroad. That is also the term used in the Election Code. The Commission is also on the policies for Bulgarians abroad. The policy is restrictive, and given that Bulgarians outside the country do not have a electoral area, have no MPs, the wider, more institutional and more relevant to their expectations should be: The Bulgarian Commission outside the country. It's an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u346	Yes, thank you, Mrs. Manolova. The term in the Election Code and everywhere in the laws is: "Outside the country" because of the division of Bulgarian citizens in a Member State of the European Union, and a third country. That's where the notion comes from outside the country. Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u347	Mrs. Chairman! I propose that the Committee on Economic Policy, High Technology and Tourism be as follows: the Economic Policy, Innovation and Tourism Committee. I am provoked by including the word "innovations" because all those innovations applied in the economy have a direct link with the economy. And when we divide innovation as applied in the economy, we need to measure their effect. That is why I propose that this committee be again - I repeat - by economic policy, innovation and tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u348	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u349	Madam President, honourable Members! Before we decide to vote on the types and number of committees, I want you to bear in mind something that we have repeatedly said to each other in the Temporary Committee, namely that the committees will not meet with a falling quorum. That is, the greater the number of committees, the greater the risk of them meeting at the same time and of some of the MPs not being able to participate in two of the committees. Keep that in mind not so much for the name. I doubt anyone thought that one policy was less important than another, but rather that we could sit for as long as possible, as best as possible to distribute the committees themselves, so that there could be effective work in them. We, as a small parliamentary group, are aware that we want to participate everywhere and at the same time there must be agreement between committee chairmen so that there is a real agenda sufficiently early and that there can be a good distribution of people between the so-called megacomics. And mega-comics I call committees that have enough subcommittees in them that have a lot of other work than different policies.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u350	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported part of Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs. If you want, we can divide t. 1 "For the Committee on Economic Policy by the Committee on Civil Society and Religions, since there were no debates there? [[Heckling]] All together, okay. I put to the vote the unsupported part of Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs. Points 1, 7 and 8 are the unsupported by Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal. Vote 168 MPs: 13 against 128, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to the controversial committee on t. 3 "Commission on Economic Policy, High Technology and Tourism. It is proposed on the Report of the Commission of the importer. Do you want to vote on it or do you want to vote on it first? [[Heckling]] First the MPs, okay. Proposal by Mr. Zhelyazkov Is that what you suggested, Mr. Zhelyazkov? Do you have any innovations? [[Heckling]] No, it's another committee. We are voting on Mr. Zhelyazkov's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] The Committee on Tourism, which is on its own, was the main proposal of the importer and we will finally come back to it, so be careful what you vote on. [[Noise and lines.]] You want us to vote on whether there should be a separate committee? [[Heckling]] All right, then. We will reverse the vote, we will return to the main proposal. Vote to have a Committee on Tourism set up. They voted 171 MPs: 63, against 73, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. Revoting mode! Please re-vote. Vote 174 MPs: 64, against 77, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are moving on to Mr. Zhelyazkov's proposal for the name of the Commission under point 1. 3 of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee. Vote 174 MPs: 88, against 62, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Now we move on to Lyubomir Karimanski's proposal to create... [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me? [[Heckling]] Revoting! Okay, Mr. Ivanov. Please, re-election mode. They voted 173 MPs: 87, against 63, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are now moving on to Lyubomir Karimanski's proposal for the establishment of the Committee on Economic Policy, Innovation and Tourism. Here you are, Mr. Gadget, in the manner of conduct. What have I broken now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u351	I have a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u352	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u353	[[GERB-SDS]] : Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a question about the practice that was imposed in the 45th National Assembly by you, namely that the quorum is 61, regardless of those present or what is written on the dashboard. If there are more than 61 votes, the proposal is accepted accordingly. Looking at the dashboard, the results were 87 for a total of 86 against and abstention. If you could clarify what kind of... [[Reference between the President and the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] So that's it, if we can get this straight.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u354	No, no, Mr. Gadget. The Quorum is always 121 and the majority is always 61. Leave what the dashboard says at the beginning. It's a registration, and it has nothing to do with it. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So we should always look at what's... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] What was the result? Show me the score! [[Reference between the President and the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] The motion is accepted. It's okay. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] How many are there for and how many are against? Please announce the result! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] For 87. The offer is accepted! [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS: ……]] The problem here, fellow Members, is not the Constitution or what we voted on. The problem is that, in the Rules of Procedure, it is understood that it is still understood, while we are adopting these Rules, because I myself have proposed that this concept should be dropped in the Rules, precisely so that there are no such confusions that, under the Rules of Procedure, the number of Members of the National Assembly who have registered before the start of the vote is understood to be the number of Members who have registered before the vote and we are therefore looking for from 183 to 92 for. Do you understand? Because it is the problem of our current Rules, which so defines it, and so, fellow Members, you have applied it for so many years. [[Applause]] However, we are now proposing that this thing be abolished and indeed the quorum be as it is and the majority as it is. If we accept what I have proposed, yes, the proposal would be accepted. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u355	Madam President, honourable Members! In the 45th National Assembly, when Mr. Yordan Tsonev, interpreting the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, took you literally out of a vote concerning a different subject, not the Rules concerning the Election Code, when you sharply increased the sections abroad. But that's a subject I don't want to come back to right now. I shall return to the Rules of Procedure and its implementation. If we assume that you are right, Madam President, then tell me, what was the quorum you established in the roll call check you did less than an hour ago?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u356	The roll call check ended because we voted and it turned out that there was a necessary quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u357	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u358	We didn't finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u359	You've suspended the roll call because you've decided that there are enough MPs, your exact...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u360	121.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u361	Your exact words were, "We've got enough already, we're going to vote." If not, we'll run a background check on the transcript, but I'm right because I wrote them down. So now the question is: what rules are we working under, which you have accepted in the 45th National Assembly, although we have repeatedly paid attention to that you will be bitterly sorry, but as Truman Capote also said, the most tears are shed by fulfilled dreams, ladies and gentlemen, or by other rules, such as you created earlier, in some different order, by checking on some quorum which did not come to an end. Please determine what the quorum is currently after the roll call check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u362	Mrs. Atanasova, I canceled the roll call. I canceled it and we didn't finish it, because it was written on the dashboard when I went to the vote that we already had the necessary quorum. So that's why the roll call check wasn't completed and it wasn't finished. We've been using the registration since this morning. That's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u363	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u365	Madam President, before voting on a next proposal, you should do a roll call check to establish the quorum in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u366	Okay. [[Heckling]] It was on my initiative here and on the initiative of the parliamentary group in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u367	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u368	Mr. Radostin Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u369	I ask that we put an end to today's sitting, as it is so far, and let us proceed tomorrow on what remains. The final decision was not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u370	How can it not be accepted?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u371	That's not acceptable. [[(National representatives of GERB-SDS, standing on the path:]] Why are you yelling at me? [[Noise and lines.]] Be a little more civilized! Did I offend you?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u372	Mr. Ivanov, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u373	Okay, I think it's not acceptable for me, and I suggest we stop. If you think it is accepted, this can be decided after the meeting you have your administration of the National Assembly, you have a chairman. The disputes at the moment on quorum and on roll call checks, half an hour after the meeting was to be concluded. [[Applause from IHN.]] Please put to the vote an end of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u374	Mr. Ivanov, please just let me speak. [[Heckling]] All right, let me do the talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u375	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u376	I will put to the vote Mr. Vassilev's proposal, as I was asked by the BSP parliamentary group that they have a national council, you see that the group is missing. [[Lowered noise and speech from the center.]] It is not correct when a group is missing and we are solving such important issues, such as the establishment of permanent committees in the National Assembly, to make procedural rules. Let's vote on the procedure. [[Noise and lines, shouting from GERB-SDS.]] Because I believe that really permanent committees are the most important in the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u377	My procedure is in the manner of conduct, Madam President. With the greatest respect to the colleague who just took the procedure, let him not say whether or not a point has been adopted. Let it be your job at the lead meeting to determine whether there is a quorum, whether the point that we have been revoting has been accepted. I want to make it clear to the entire Chamber and to the colleagues who are on the right and very provocatively defending the Rules, we have Rules, colleagues, and we are working on it. I therefore appeal to the President of the National Assembly, who will say that we have accepted or have not accepted the procedure? I therefore have no dispute with you, and I have a dispute in the way that you determine whether or not the point has been accepted. And the other, which is whether to end the meeting, I think we also had a procedure until how long and until the adoption of which point to continue the meeting, Madam President. So let's stick to the rules. That's my request.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u378	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u379	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u380	One moment, Mr. Glauchev. In this case, I will apply the Rules of Procedure, as it contains the concept of "present persons'. I have been alarming this change for a long time that it is not true and does not comply with the Constitution, has been applied for years as it has always been in the interest of the parties concerned. You know very well the old MPs that usually in controversial matters in the morning rise very high quorum and then look for huge majoritys. I believe that this must end and the Constitution must be applied as it is. At the moment the Rules are what it is, and until we finish it all the way down and the word is cast out.......................................................................................................................................................... we will work under these Rules.............................................................................. Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u381	Madam President, honourable Members! It is clear whether or not the proposal has been accepted, you have just explained it. The point is that there was a proposal for a name check before the vote, yet the fellow Member made a motion for a vote, which, if you apply the Rules that are currently in force, you must make a name check and then vote on its proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u382	And what's the point, Mr. Glauchev, of doing a name check?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u383	There's a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u384	That's the rules! That's the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u385	Okay, I'll do a roll call check and then we'll vote adjournment. If that's what you want!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u386	That's the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u387	Here you go. The way you're running things?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u388	Yeah. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because you have allowed yourself from the parliamentary tribune to say that we must call off the meeting of the National Assembly, notice the meeting of the National Assembly because one of the parliamentary groups has a national council. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Madam President, when we chose to be President of the National Assembly, of the 46th National Assembly, the Parliamentary Group of We got off to a very good start today. Of course, each Member of the National Assembly has the opportunity to express his views on the various points, but it is unacceptable in the Parliamentary Republic for you to declare that we should call off the National Assembly because a parliamentary group had a meeting of the National Council. If you want us to change the work on how to meet the National Assembly, to set a point in our Rules when a parliamentary represented or outside a parliamentary represented party has a meeting, to terminate the National Assembly meetings. This is unacceptable! Please, at least have the valor of the House, not to apologize, but not to make similar mistakes from the stand that you are occupying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-04.u389	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. I merely clarified Mr. Vassilev's proposal regarding my procedure for termination of the work of the National Assembly, and I did not say so in the context of political meetings and events. On the proposal for a roll call check, I declare verification of the quorum by means of the computerised voting system according to art. 52, para. 3 of the Rules. Please vote. There have been supposed suppose 174 registered Members of the National Assembly. I now vote on Radostin Vassilev's motion to terminate the meeting. Please, voting mode. Vote 174 MPs: 119, against 51, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The next plenary session is tomorrow, 5 August 2021, at 9:00 p.m. We continue with the Rules of Procedure. [[PHONE RINGING]]
