ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please put on your masks. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose at the place of item eight, which was the first item for today, namely the Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure, which was exhausted yesterday, that we include the draft decision on the timing of elections for the President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria with importers Victoria Vasileva and a group of MPs. You know that this is our obligation under Constitution, time is running out, and we have to decide the date of the election. Please, a voting regime on the proposal so made.. the inclusion of this draft decision as item one on today's agenda. Vote 154 MPs: 150, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Capon, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I suggest we turn on BNT 1 and BNR cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u3	Thank you. I put the proposal to the vote. Vote 164 MPs: 145 against 7, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Please direct transmission on BNT 1 and BNR. What's your procedure? Okay, group statement. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A year ago, the day 2 September 2020 was declared a Grand People's Uprising and will remain in history with the name "Blood Wednesday." Tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens went out into the square, gathered their strength and faced Borisov's dictatorship! What they received was the sense of freedom and pride for each of them. [[Noise and lines.]] They and the dictator did not allow themselves to fight, to hold back, to gas up, to torture their own people just to protect the dictator. [[noise and lines]] This day will remain in history with the shame of GERB and the dictator Borisov, because they bloody their own people for their own interest to preserve the throne and preserve the opportunity to steal at will. We people will not forget this! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "You are not the people! "]] We will not forget, and we will not forgive, and we will not leave the abusers unpunished, because this shame has been seen from all over the world! And you know what was so great all that day?! The bloody Wednesday passed and had not yet washed the blood of the citizens from the pavement, and the next day the 3rd September, there were twice as many people in the square who were angry. They were angry because they knew they were right, they knew they were fighting for their freedom! Did you know that all these people won? They won, they did it, we did it! And yes the bloody Wednesday is pride for the free Bulgarian people and shame for the dictator! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. We begin with the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CROSS THE SELECTION OF THE PRESENT AND VICESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importers suppose Victoria Vassileva and a group of MPs, on 1 September 2021. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Project! DECISION on the timing of elections for President and Vice-President of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 4, Art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 93, para. Art. 5 and art. 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 4 of the Election Code HAS DECIDED Schedules elections for President and Vice-President of the Republic of Bulgaria on November 14, 2021, Sunday.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u7	Thank you. I'm opening the debate for speeches. I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision read. They voted 177 MPs: 152, none, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: HEARING OF THE OFFICED MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA STEPHAN AND OF THE OFFICED MINISTRY OF THE PUBLIC AND SECURITY MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS BOOK RUSHKOV ON THE GENTNESS AND PLANS OF THE GOVERNMENT TO RESPONSE NEW MIGRANT WOLF AND NEGATIVES TO TAKE CARE OF THE Yesterday we finished by asking a question from the BSP about Bulgaria to Minister Rashkov. Please invite Minister Rashkov to the Chamber. [[(Noise and lines:) He's gone.]] Is the Prime Minister gone too? Minister Rashkov is on his way and the Prime Minister is not here yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u8	I can replace him!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u9	Mr. Bikov, there's time to replace him. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, do you want to move the points and move on to ratification? Instead of waiting, let's withdraw the ratification, right, Mr. Bikov? I put to the vote the displacement of the points of the cancer point, which is after the hearing, to become the third point, and the point of the hearing to the fourth point, so that we do not waste time and accept it while waiting for Minister Rashkov. Vote 171 MPs: 160 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, for the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u10	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe, signed by the Bulgarian side on 29 December 2020 in Sofia, No 46-102-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2021. At a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 27 August 2021, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe was reviewed, signed by the Bulgarian side on 29 December 2020 in Sofia, No 46-102-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2021. The meeting was attended by: Velislav Minekov, Minister of Culture, and Vesela Kondakova, Deputy Minister of Culture. The bill was presented by Mrs. Vesela Kondakova. The project created in 2008 is a European Network for Literature and Books for Support and Mediation for Translation Projects in South East Europe. As regards the expiry period of the Framework Agreement, drawn up and signed on 30 October 2018 in Skopje with Annex of 14 December 2018 on the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to it for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, the "Samuel " Foundation is drawing up a new agreement which provides for an extension of the duration of the existing Framework Agreement for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2023. The project is to be extended after 2023. The Council of Ministers, by decision of 16 December 2020, approved the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for translation projects in South East Europe for the period 1 January 2021. " 31 December 2023," which was signed on 29 December 2020 in Sofia. In accordance with § 2 of the Framework Agreement, the annual financial contribution of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project "Transduci" is 10 thousand. Euros. The expenditure shall be at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Culture for the relevant year. During the five project evaluation sessions held in the period January 2019, April 2021 a total of 41 Bulgarian translation projects were approved and the total amount of financial support received amounted to 130 thousand. Euros. The amount exceeds the financial contribution of our country annually for participation in the project. Bulgaria's participation as a full member in the project "Tradduci" supports the promotion of Bulgarian authors and works through translation; the participation of Bulgarian book publishers in international book fairs; provides the opportunity for Bulgarian authors to present their works on European stage; the promotion of our national literature through the participation of Bulgarian authors, translators, publishers and critics in meetings and presentations in Europe. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Agreement must be ratified by law. As a result of a vote held unanimously with 14 votes for the Committee on Culture and Media, the National Assembly proposes to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in Southeast Europe, signed by the Bulgarian side on 29 December 2020 in Sofia, No 46-102-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a Draft Law on ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe, signed by the Bulgarian side on 29 December 2020 in Sofia, No 46-102-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2021. Vote 160 MPs: for 159, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, for a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u12	Madam President, I propose a procedure. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we adopt a second vote Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducki" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe, signed by the Bulgarian side on 29 December 2020 in Sofia, No 46-102-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u13	Thank you. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. Vote 166 MPs: 166, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u14	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on Support and Mediation for Translation Projects in South East Europe, signed by the Bulgarian side on 29 December 2020 in Sofia A single member. He ratified the Framework Agreement on the Project "Tradduci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe, signed by the Bulgarian side on 29 December 2020 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u15	Thank you. I put to the second vote the Draft Law on the ratification of a Framework Agreement. They voted 165 MPs: 163, none, abstention 2. The proposal has been adopted, and this item on the agenda has been exhausted. Back to: HEARING THE OFFICER MINISTER- PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA STEPHAN AND THE OFFICER MINISTER OF THE PUBLIC RESTROYER AND SECURITY AND OFFICED MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS BUSCHKOV 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE GENEFIT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR THE COLLECTION OF THE IMMIGRANT TACT, THE PRESENTS AND THE MEASURES PLANNED BY THE GOVERNMENT IN THE INTERNAL AND IN THE INTERNATIONAL PLAN, AND ON THE LINES OF COOPERATION IN THE CONVERSION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. For the first question from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u16	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Rashkov, as Deputy Prime Minister, you have enough reliable information about the development and dynamics of the military-political situation in Afghanistan in the last days after the entry of the movement of Taliban, as well as the evacuation of military personnel, Afghans at risk of the new power in Afghanistan, conducted by many countries. In this regard, my question is: what is the place and role of Bulgaria in this process; are there evacuations and citizens of Afghanistan accepted in Bulgaria, on what grounds and with what status; and are there any more of these in the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, perhaps the question is more appropriate to put to the Foreign Minister because the Foreign Ministry has the most direct, direct attitude and participation in this process, but nevertheless, of course, I will say what is known in the Ministry of Interior on this issue. As you know from the media, this is not a secret, everyone is informed, in Afghanistan there are various political processes running, as a result of which a number of citizens of this country are looking for any opportunities to leave, and in this respect the American side played a significant role, and others, including Turkey. In any case, Europe has not remained indifferent to these processes and at the level of the European Union has decided to assist in Afghanistan with citizens of this country who have worked for the European structures there, including the Bulgarian Embassy in Afghanistan, to take the necessary measures in this regard to assist, as well as what can be done with these individuals, to evacuate these citizens if they so wish, of course, from Afghanistan. Regarding the actions or activities of Bulgaria in this regard. I can inform you that a decision has been made that an Afghan citizen has worked for the Bulgarian Embassy in Kabul for decades, along with his family to be taken out of Afghanistan and transported to our country. It's a fact. It's about this Afghan guy's family, his family totals 15 people. They were transported these days first to Belgium and from there by plane to Bulgaria. We have taken measures, including with the participation of the Bulgarian Red Cross, stress this, and are accommodated, so the whole family is feeling well right now. In this regard, I would stress again that Bulgaria has fulfilled its commitment at this stage, of course, to provide the necessary assistance to such Afghan citizens, I repeat, who have worked for European structures, and this family is specifically concerned that they have cooperated, worked for a long time for the Bulgarian Embassy. And there's one more thing in that relationship I'm going to say. Since our commitment is not limited to those 15 Afghans, there are currently another group of Afghan citizens in Madrid, who may be transported here at any moment, to our country, and will be accommodated, as well as this family that we have spoken of. So much for Mr. Ivanov's question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u19	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? I can't see. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Service Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! In the debate, I have a little sense of déjà vu. The same debate was held in this room about three years ago. There were two deputy prime ministers here talking about hundreds of thousands of Syrian terrorists, armed, dangerous, coming. I even remember that one of them went to the border with binoculars and talked and quote: "You will not shoot with a machine gun, but there will be water jets, gas and shock grenades. " - They had a very simple solution: give us money for the fence. We all know the rest. One builds a fence through the district governors, the other, of course, by no means accusing him of such a thing, but there were members of his party who were arrested and subsequently convicted of trafficking refugees. There is a huge detail here, which is very important, however, on the proposal of these two deputy prime ministers, a very important change in the Public Procurement Act was made, namely: the construction and repairs of the fence to be carried out without public procurement, without transparency, but through direct negotiation. Since you, too, regret that the office prime minister is not in this Chamber, you have been appointed with a request that you are bearers of change and new morality, we of the DPS want to know: what is your attitude towards this already made change in the Public Procurement Act related to the construction of the fence? Do you agree that it should remain so with direct negotiation, or should transparency be restored to the procedure? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u21	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I didn't understand what déjà vu meant in this context, which was exposed a short time ago, one made a fence, but didn't use public procurement and a number of other things, and now what do we think? What's the déjà vu anyway?! We're not building a fence. It's made. The fence facility is a fact and is used. Since we are here every day, I say the same thing every day: with this fence, no matter how much criticism it takes a few years ago, how it was built, why it was built, with what money it was built, is there any hotels close to the border areas, no hotels made in this connection, and there to post officers of the Ministry of Interior from the Border Police and other things, but there is nothing to compare the fence to since it was built to this day, so let's say there is dejavu. Deja vu means already seen, already experienced. As to the fact that the fence was then made without order. I don't think a deputy prime minister today should be asked why someone did one thing or another three, four or five years ago. So what's my opinion? My opinion can be personal and casual to the government in this particular case. I can say that a fence facility, including technical means of monitoring and control, to protect the privacy of our territory, is all the circumstances that can be included in the concept of national security. This is in the context of the policy of the European Union, under which Bulgaria is on the front line, and we are the European border that separates the European Union from countries that are not members of the European Union. So in this sense, it seems to me that we can really comment on whether the construction of such facilities, which are not only wire fences, to be aware, but also the installation of technical facilities of a different nature for the protection of the country's territory from illegal penetration, is a crime under our Penal Code and can be interpreted as referring to national security. From there, the Order Act. If it is a matter of national security, it seems to me that there is no obstacle in this law to really provide for a hypothesis in which the construction of such facilities will be accelerated, to be done without the formal procedures of the Public Procurement Act, it is somewhat justified. And I do not know why the question of the protection of the country's territory from the southeast is being raised here, and the question is not also raised, dear Mr. MP, that many years ago the Court of Justice was renovated. Do you remember, or are you too young?! You remember when I investigated the case for the tank tape, but you don't remember the Courthouse, and this as an event is more like an event?! It's more like an event. At the time, this mechanism was also used to circumvent the Public Procurement Act in order to repair it, which also included those premises where both the Attorney General and the Supreme Court of Cassation are located. But let's not really make comparisons between the two hypotheses, they're incomparable to me. This is my position on the fence facility and the technical means that are there to protect the Bulgarian border against the penetration of persons of foreigners who, with this, passing through the so-called green border, commit a crime under the Penal Code. Of course, in the near future, there will be the question of these repairs that need to be done. Given that the fence facility in some places has been compromised, these repairs are pressing and we cannot delay them. For this reason yesterday, it seems to me that the Council of Ministers will decide in the coming days to transfer the powers of the district governors of Burgas, Haskovo and Yambol, with regard to the maintenance of the fence facility, the Ministry of Interior and, in particular, the Directorate-General of Border Police, with a view to monitoring the state of the fence facility and the technical means on a daily basis, in order to promptly plan the removal of the relevant deficiencies arising for one reason or another, including the malicious behaviour of persons passing through this border facility. Yes, then that question will indeed arise. The Public Procurement Act is currently not changed in this respect, as far as I know. In other words, the fence facility can be repaired, repaired, restored where necessary, without requiring the Law to declare a public procurement. If a public procurement is announced, perhaps we in the next 2 months, when necessary, will not be able to remove these compromised sections of the fence, the damage to it and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u23	Your time, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u25	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! No question. I propose that we continue with the second questions to Minister Rashkov, as it turned out that the Prime Minister had a professional commitment to the Council of Ministers and could not come at the moment. For a second question to Minister Rashkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Rashkov, we know that the migrant pressure on the Greek border is increasing. We also know that there is no partition facility built there. What measures are being taken in living force, in technique, how much is the growth of those passing by, of what nationality they are, are the services working on routes and are there appointed translators from Afghanistan, because we know that so far the refugees were mostly from Syria, and that, in my opinion, will be a big problem if the forecasts come true? Is there a financial resource available for the enemy dogs how many dogs serve in the Border Police and are they secured? Thank you. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Yes, there is reason to speak on this subject for a very simple reason.... on the Turkish side we have a facility which I would say, and such is the general opinion that it greatly hinders the passage. From Greece, of course, we do not have such a facility because there cannot be such a facility between two European countries. It seems to me that these days I have paid attention to the fact that the Greek country has already built a similar fence facility along its border with Turkey. If memory serves me right, it is about 60 km away and largely hinders the entry of migrants directly from Turkey into Greece. Of course, there is a problem that is common to both Greece and Bulgaria, because there passes the Maritsa River, which makes it very easy to make it easier for us now in this warm season, the passage and I would say that even smooth or much easier, it becomes the entry of the territory of both Greece and Bulgaria. Then, when migrants enter Greece and from there crossing the Maritsa River, which is currently of little depth, if they notice our border forces that are there, of course, they return, go back to Greek territory and go into depth, after which they are seeking.. these are facts and data from our border services a place where they can already enter Bulgaria through the Rhodopes and so on. This is the approach of these migrants. I can also give you digital data in this regard from that night: early in the morning I was told that about 200 people were rejected. These are migrants who are thus trying to enter the territory of the country. In the country's territory, about 10 "15 migrants" have been captured for this day and night. I can share with you that a few days ago there was an increase in the number, which gave us reason to alarm and say that things are getting complicated, but during this day and day the trend is reversed. It is still early to say that there is another more favourable trend, because just from today's data it is not logical to make such a conclusion, but we observe what is happening on a daily basis. As far as ethnicity is concerned. I must tell you that the number of Afghans is greater than the Syrians. About 3.5 million Syrians are in Turkey, and as I think it has already become known, and as we talked yesterday, they have easier access to Turkey, they are perceived differently than the Turks and probably feel better there. There is a smaller number of those who want to cross over to our country than the Afghans who prevail in the number, I would say. We also have representatives of migrants from other ethnic groups, including Turkish citizens. Of course, we should not be under the impression that everyone is only passing through the fence facility and only through the missing one between Bulgaria and Greece. They're also trying to pass by means of transport. This is a very serious problem and I will tell you in what aspect: at the moment even in Turkish territory, the tail of trucks is quite serious. I have met with the Ambassador of Turkey several times and we are talking about this. This is a really serious problem. We can't not check the cars because we're talking about a migratory problem. They are moving, not by accident I said, not only in this difficult way through the fence facility and so on, but also trying to pass through border checkpoints hidden in means of transport, which obliges us to check, of course, these means of transport. Migrant pressure has an impact even on the economy of some countries. Let's tell Turkey with the delayed transport. Here, even a slight tension is created and with the Turkish side We are making immense efforts, I can tell you, our border crossing officers are 100% committed to this issue 100%. We have carried out inspections together with Turkey's ambassador at our western border and our border with Serbia. She is convinced herself what problem this is about and that the issue of late transport is not a subjective issue. He's not subjective. There are curious cases in connection with transport I can tell you. Even in border areas, our border guards have captured hidden in the middle of trucks that carry timber, Afghan citizens. Curious cases. They're not so common, of course, but I share them with you to let you know that things are really quite serious out there and they're burdening our border forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u29	Your time, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u30	Is the time running out?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u31	This is the amendment in the Rules of Procedure, by the way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u32	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u33	Yeah. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u34	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u35	Come in, Mr. Terziyski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Rashkov, the last days regarding the issue of migration as a major focus we have put the partition facility, but I would say that it is only one element in the whole system of countering legal migration. We have seen that you are sending your Deputy Minister to the Justice and Home Affairs Council. My question will be regarding the Migration and Asylum Pact, which has been in the focus of the European Commission for the past two years. My question is as follows: what is the position and how is our government defending our red lines regarding the request for the introduction of mandatory border procedures, the introduction of legal fiction, the refusal of residence in the country? This is a long commentary on a problem on which the southern member states of the European Union want a single position to announce so that we are not a polygon where we become camps for illegal migrants. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u37	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Terziysky, our position is as it was in your time. Of course, we will not agree, as you have said here, that our country should become a polygon of numerous representatives of various ethnic groups who seek, so to speak, the rich Western European countries, who in turn oppose and return them to a starting point. So we respect those European and international requirements relating to migrants, and we will continue to respect them, in the sense that those who are granted a corresponding status will have different opportunities, like those 15 people - the families I talked about today at the beginning - have Schengen visas issued by Belgium before landing in our country. We are, of course, working in harmony with the decisions of the European Commission and, with, I repeat, European and international acts relevant and regulating the relations of countries towards citizens who leave their countries for various reasons. Including today, we are mainly talking about Afghans, but this issue is relevant not only to them, but also to the Syrians, which we have already said that a huge part of the Syrian people is located in the territory of the Republic of Turkey. I do not know if my answer satisfies you enough, but we are making every effort to comply with our law, of course, and to comply with the position of European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u39	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, come in from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u40	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Rashkov, because the migration process is so large that it affects several of our neighbouring countries, not only Bulgaria, but Greece and Turkey. In this regard, I ask you to respond to what level is coordination between the three countries with regard to combating illegal migration. Mostly coordination between the border authorities of Bulgaria, Turkey, Greece and in particular the established Coordination Centre at the border between Bulgaria, Turkey and Greece in the Kapitan Andreevo division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u41	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, yes, the issue is quite important because, as I have already highlighted today, the problem of migration cannot be solved only by our country without the help of the European Member States, without, of course, the corresponding governing structures in the European Union, without Turkey, without Greece, including Romania. Why am I saying this? For Romania, I will only point out because we do not rarely encounter cases where migrants have managed not only to pass the fence facilities, to travel through our country by means of means of transport and to be captured, if I may say so, by experience and crossing the Bulgarian-Romanian border. Then there are explanations and you can see how these people managed to move at such a great distance. Then the mistakes made by our border authorities are revealed. Of course, from now on, we're looking for guilt and responsibility. Absolutely with our neighbouring countries, mainly Turkey and Greece, we are in very close coordination so that together we can counteract the migratory pressure. I have already had meetings, not only with Turkey's ambassador, but also repeatedly with Greece's ambassador, and we have commented on this issue in detail. I have a meeting in this regard with the Minister of the Interior of Greece. As it gets complicated, as much as we don't want to, the problem with migrants lately, I have invited the Greek Interior Minister to visit us so that we can discuss this issue as well. I also have a meeting tomorrow with the Greek ambassador. There are such centers working here, between our country and our two neighbours, of course, coordinating their actions, border authorities cooperate in this direction. I think this interaction is satisfactory at this stage. They cooperate with us, so when our border services inform about the sighted groups of migrants, not far from the border facility, the Turkish or Greek authorities concerned are concerned. That is what I can say in general on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Mr. Atanasov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm addressing you this way because, apart from the Home Secretary, you are Deputy Prime Minister for Security and Public Order. My specific question is: because, among other things, the physical protection of the border, the technical facility and so on, an extremely important element in countering migration flows is informational provision by all structures that are relevant. My question is specifically: what organisation was created by the Council of Ministers for coordination between all the structures of the state that are involved in this countermeasure? Is there any reliable information that can be accessed through the channels of our intelligence services, as well as internal security with regard to the State Agency's National Security (National Security) so that, of course, preventive countermeasures can be taken through the operational information acquired? In this regard, I would like to ask you, because, amongst other things, the border is not an ordinary polosa, but it would be good and I am sure that it is working in this direction, with operational technical means, to obtain information that precedes such risks. Is the State Agency involved in this process of coordination? In particular, by the way, on a proposal from the caretaker government, by decrees of Mr. President were replaced by the heads of the State Agency of National Security, of the State Agency of Intelligence and I find it strange why no one is talking and the question of the State Agency of Industrial Operations is not being raised at all. Because there was an extremely difficult scandal there some time ago, where the boss of this agency's car was stolen or broken into. Some important documents were stolen and then nothing happened. So, if possible, in this regard, you can give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u45	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atanasov, Information Security. A month of August, when political and military processes were speeded up in Afghanistan and after the National Security Advisory Council held by the President, a meeting was held immediately at the Ministry of Interior, to which the heads of all services, including the special services, were invited, to all heads of the Ministry of Interior, concerned with the issue of information provision, including the Minister of Defence and other high-ranking officials, where the migrant problem was discussed, so to say, for short, with regard to our country and what measures can be taken. These heads of special services, including the SANS, were also heard at the time, about what information they were gaining from their sources, which information was analysed. At this meeting, it was decided, of course, to concentrate the information acquired from the various sources in a unit that we have created in the Ministry of Interior to analyse these data and to provide it so that the government's management can react promptly. That's in common, I can tell you today. So with confidence, I would like to convince you that we do not stand by, on the contrary, we have engaged all the departments that could assist in this regard with information, technically and otherwise, which means all these services are on their feet. Their actions are coordinated and, as I have already stressed, information is concentrated in one place. From this point of view, I can say that, in the presence of such information, we can also take preventive action, as today and back in the coming days, we have spoken quite often on this subject, and about the possible involvement of military forces, if necessary. This information, which is concentrated with us, will give us, perhaps, the occasion, when we consider it necessary, to include military units in countering this migrant without, without being impressed both in our society and outside the country, that we will hardly wage war against people who are fleeing from the same regime. You said "DATO." At this meeting, which was only a few days ago there is hardly enough, of course, that they had invited the Chairman of the State Agency "Tsvetan Kitov." In front of everyone, my colleague Kitov said: we are such and such a service. Technically, we are not going to be able to cooperate with you in any way. That was his statement. As for why the other presidents, leaders, have been dismissed from office, I would like to tell you briefly that an inspection is currently being carried out in this office, let us wait for it to end. And what you have informed the Chamber here is true about the car that was in service, which was a special technique with which he was moving there, not to give details where he shouldn't, to house... [[DB lines.]] Oh, yeah, that's public information now, which is weird. Why hasn't any attitude been taken? That's the weird part! So that's basically it. Now let me say a few words about the State Agency for National Security. They have also been involved, of course, in this circle of bodies, which helps to obtain up-to-date information. There's another aspect there. Let me pay your attention, because, anyway, we have migrants breaking into our home. We cannot control this process 100%, and that is why there are migrant centres and homes, there are also such in the State Agency of Refugees and so on. They're working with them because my amendment limits me, and I'm probably going to end with that, in this migratory stream we're not guaranteed in any way that they won't penetrate terrorist elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u47	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u48	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr Minister! Dear colleagues, Bulgaria is facing three serious crises: a kind of crisis, the migrant crisis and the political crisis. To our great pleasure today, the National Assembly decided that the beginning of the end of the political crisis could be November 14 or 21. But to our great regret, the next two crises will be solved, there will be no constructed National Assembly, and we will all be watching how the new or possibly old office will handle it. My specific question to you, Minister, is: what measures have you taken in connection with human trafficking within the country? This is a serious problem that you have not paid attention to! And one big request, if memory serves me, two weeks ago you promised me where and under what conditions will the posted employees of the Ministry of Interior be accommodated? The request of the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" is, if possible, to be more specific when answering the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u50	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ahmedov, can I make a joke? What I promised I did, I'm not a politician! Thank you. [[Reply from MP Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov.]] Three crises, yes. No offense. It was just a joke. Yes, indeed the whole society is aware of what will happen, how the political process will develop in our country within days or within weeks, I cannot say exactly. We will work.. be calm and convinced of this, actively, yes. We need parliamentary control, I say this very seriously and responsibly. He sometimes corrects us, so I'm not worried about parliamentary control. With regard to what traffic measures? Yeah, I mentioned it at one of my hearings, human traffickers... I'll tell you something in common and something concrete. The general thing is that before the migrants relied to the greatest extent, perhaps entirely, on the assistance given to them by Bulgarian citizens, i.e. a channel is formed from Turkey. Bulgaria until we get them out of here and most likely have links with other migrant traffickers who are already helping them through Serbia, and so on, depends on where they want to go. Now the operational information is that they benefit from the assistance of foreign citizens who have already found status in our country, that is, they communicate with each other more easily, because they already have status in Bulgaria and contact them. This very much complicates really the problem of crossing these channels. Of course, we acquire information in this regard. And to finish the specific question, I'll tell you that we have a little less than 200 pre-trial criminal cases against such persons, which is also the line that we are working on, it is not forgotten, on the contrary. So we're investigating a little below 200, I repeat, individuals who are involved in this kind of activity. And the other thing that I have not forgotten, on the contrary I have checked it out, and I will tell you that our police forces, which are seconded, because this is not just about staff from the Directorate-General of Border Police, it is about the secondment of persons from the Regional Interior Directorates, who are at this stage more landed and who we are posting in this area. The Gendarmerie Directorate General is also headed that way. Of course we use hotels nearby. If you're asking about expenses, I can tell you that. Usually 30 leva. for a bed with breakfast.. this is the cost, perhaps there are some minimal differences, but it is not so important. And as for the one who built the fence and his hotel, I promised to tell you: "The hotel is called Capricorn, and there are staff posted there. We don't have another option. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u51	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Come on in, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is not formally directly on the subject of migration, but has something to do with what happened in Bulgaria, and what happened in Afghanistan has changed power and so far I am stopping... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] . Well, I expected you to tell me that. Good luck. So much for irony. There is a problem that is very likely to affect our security, and it is not directly related to human trafficking, but to opium trafficking, given that one of the world's largest producers is Afghanistan and this is about other channels. It is very likely, after the power has changed, and the control over the channels that pass through Turkey and Bulgaria will also change, given that a huge part of the market is actually located in Western Europe. To what extent are Bulgarian services ready to work on this issue as long as the change of ownership of the channel holders in Bulgaria can prove a serious criminogenic problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u53	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u54	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr Babikan! Yes, with the change of scenery, generally speaking, changes are taking place in each country in different directions. Of course, there will be changes to these are objective factors as well in terms of this type of crime. It is known that Afghanistan is a country which, as Professor Radulov often pays attention, is a producer of opium, generally speaking. It is no secret to anyone that one of the roads that leads drugs to Europe is our country and I would say with great satisfaction that the services that are involved in countering this type of crime work well. We can have and have, of course, claims to them, and quite serious, but especially in terms of countering drug trafficking and other similar substances is at a good level. I would like to inform you that I have had several meetings with representatives of the US Embassy and those employees there who are in contact with our services, especially with the General Directorate of Organized Crime, they themselves express a positive assessment of the interaction they have with our services. That is, my assessment, which I now share with you, is not formed by any subjective attitude or position that I am currently taking, on the contrary, and by opinions that I hear from partner services and their representatives. It is quite possible that I have not explored, frankly, are there any changes that are already taking place on the road of drugs through Bulgaria? Most likely there will be such a change, but I am convinced that our services will detect these changes in a timely manner and will cross them at any time when possible. Because, you know, we also work in partnership on different lines, but also on the basis of the so-called controlled supplies that the countries that monitor these shipments, somewhere called them, agree on their actions for the time, for the moment and place where they can carry out similar secret operations. We'll monitor the processes, of course. Once we know them, they're easier to control. So at a conveniently different time, if there is anything more concrete, I would be happy to share with the people's representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u55	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. Minister Rashkov, the questions are over for you. Then there's attitude, but you decide whether to stay. I'm giving it till 10:40, as the Prime Minister can come then. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u56	Colleagues, we are continuing with the second question to the Prime Minister of "There is such a people." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u57	Madam President, Vice-President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Prime Minister, in relation to today's announced new anti-epidemic measures and the imposed number of restrictions, what is the government's readiness to assist the affected businesses and how adequate will the measures be? Are they in agreement with the Council of Ministers in advance and are you ready to really help the business to meet this new wave of restrictions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u58	Mr. Danailov, is your question about the Kovid crisis?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u59	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u60	We're still on migratory pressure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u61	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u62	Yeah, we're still walking... [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Danailov away from the microphones.]] No, second question from yesterday's hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u63	There's been a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u64	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Popov. Are you on the subject? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u65	Honourable President, Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is brief. There is such a people that we are interested in: what is the role of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers? Are the services coordinated, are they in sync? We know they're on different budgets, working on different laws, I guess you're having difficulties. What is being done about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u66	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The role of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers is precisely that coordinating body responsible for implementing national security protection measures, which works in peace time and, in general, in a popular language is capable and intended to manage any crises that may occur. I had the opportunity to say yesterday that this Council is about to be convened literally next week, including the invitations already sent. This coordination meeting will be on September 9th, next Thursday. The agenda of the Security Council itself at the beginning of the mandate of the caretaker government we made such a council and found certain deficits in its structure and functioning, which we are about to overcome. One of the items on the agenda will be: how does this Council work with the establishment of its secretariat, which actually also serves as a crisis management mechanism? It's all organized, done. Of course, a second point will be the consideration of the issues that you are both concerned with... and with regard to migrant pressure and coordination between all services. There is coordination between the services, there is also now, and the Security Council is precisely the body that gives the starting point, putting the pathology of how this coordination is done. In addition, and because your question is related to the migrant pressure, I have already had the opportunity to state this fact and a special coordination group has already been established, which on a daily basis monitors and analyzes all the available data and circumstances that are happening both directly with regard to border guards and inside the country, so we have this information. This coordination group is such an instrument that assists both the Security Council and, in practice, the Interior Minister in carrying out his activities in terms of countering migrant pressure. So coordination is done, it exists. We have no problems with the interaction between the various services in the different units, including what we were talking about yesterday, if necessary, and the activation of the mechanism for the participation of the armed forces. This mechanism will be further examined, including with details, and with entry into those details, which concern even the tactical interaction of border police and armed forces when it comes to it, and where such a need arises. At the moment, I say again, there is no need for that. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior, respectively Border Police, are able to carry out the tasks assigned to them and so far no additional mechanisms are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u68	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. From GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u69	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Prime Minister, in connection with the migration crisis and the pressure on the Bulgarian-Turkish border, this is a situation in which the Bulgarian state does not fall for the first time, there is a accumulated institutional memory and already some tradition for dealing with this problem, which has not only internal political but also foreign policy dimensions. My question is this: what efforts do you make, are there any already under bilateral diplomacy with the Member States of the European Union, as the Bulgarian-Turkish border is not only bilateral but also external border of the European Union? Its conservation is in the interest not only of the Bulgarian state, but of all the Member States of the European Union. What efforts have you made so far and are you currently making under bilateral diplomacy to provide logistical or other assistance for security at the Bulgarian-Turkish border, respectively? Secondly, are efforts made together with the European Commission to provide additional funding to provide additional security measures at the Bulgarian-Turkish border? Thirdly, what efforts are being made on a bilateral line with the Republic of Turkey to ensure the good interaction and will of the Turkish state so that the border is protected jointly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u70	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the specific increased migratory pressure on the border of the Republic of Bulgaria, a number of events are taking place. Earlier it was about how we strengthen our security inside and our ability to guard the border on the inside. In this regard, and with regard to Mr. Mitov's specific question on bilateral and multilateral formats within the European Union, as you know, I agree that there is an experience and institutional experience and such an interinstitutional experience between the countries concerned and the authorities of the European Union, in particular Frontex. In this case, we have representatives of Frontex, which means Frontex's international operation is continuing at the moment. With regard to what is currently being done, just a few days ago a representative from the Ministry of Interior in the Formáta interior ministers raised the question of increasing the presence of Frontex, of increasing their physical presence as people, including the issue of financial assistance, both in terms of instrumental equipment at the border and in terms of financing these additional people from other countries that will be sent along the Frontex line. At the moment, you know, and yesterday, the Foreign Minister here from this tribune said that meetings in the European Union format are to be held on this very topic. One of the topics will be solidarity and how we can receive additional assistance from both the European Commission and individual member states, because it is clear to everyone that in terms of the protection of borders Bulgaria keeps one of the external borders of the European Union and, in this case, this external border which is subjected to additional migratory pressure. With regard to bilateral co-operation, both with Turkey and Greece, it goes at different levels at both central state level and at the level of professionals who guard the border. That is, our professionals who are responsible for the respective sections of the border, contact their colleagues on the other side and have preliminary information, including for crowding people, probably for an attempt to penetrate larger groups, including a mechanism with regard to the Bulgarian-Greek border, which coordinates this type of behavior and the exchange of information, so this thing is done. At the high state level, as we hear and monitor the media, the statements of the Turkish government are that there are already a large number of migrants on its territory and, rudely speaking, applications at political level that Turkey will not become a buffer zone and take care of all these migrants, in practice means that how to look for future cooperation and future talks is a slightly more complex issue and apart from bilateral ones, we must also look for a common European position in the conduct of these talks, because we know from the past the mechanism that existed and accordingly the decisions of the European Commission to assist Turkey in relation to migrants in its territory. So even now, this type of mechanism is being discussed within the European Union, both with regard to Turkey and other border countries for Afghanistan, assuming that the main source of the migrant wave is Afghanistan at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u72	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Zafirov, come in from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u73	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There's hardly any question left, we've been here two days discussing the subject, and tomorrow there will be a third round, I understand. I'm still going to take the liberty of asking a practical question. I use that you, Prime Minister, are here as coordinating the work of the various ministries. It is about the state and measures being taken regarding the rehabilitation of the departure road facilities, which are currently in a very bad and difficult state, which leads to serious accidents of the high-speed machinery, which in turn creates serious difficulties in the work due to the lack of a service base on site and a number of similar problems. It may seem insignificant, but the fact is that on the spot they face the consequences of the actions of the so-called forest mafia, and there seems to be some reluctance by the owners of these roads, in the face of the respective forestry farms, to carry out this rehabilitation, which, I say again, leads to serious difficulties in the work of border police stations. And I would like to ask you one more thing, if you consider that we can comment on it in open court: what is the percentage of an incompletion in border police stations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u74	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for asking, Mr. Zafirov, he's important. Both roads, and technology, and everything that surrounds, assists or assists in carrying out the tasks of our border police officers, is important. Yeah, it's a really weird terrain. The roads, you rightly pointed out, are largely the responsibility of forest farms. Whether there is a desire or a lack of opportunity, financial or other, with available techniques and opportunities, is a very serious issue. This is indeed one of the issues that we will be discussing at the Security Council, because these seemingly minor factors are not irrelevant because both roads and technology are interrelated. The technique is used intensively, the roads are not in good condition, many of these roads are dirt roads, the pavement itself, the land itself has quite particular sharp stones, of course, not all along, which leads to rapid wear of the technique. The challenge is maintenance of the technique. It's hard to do to have such available garages out there on the spot, we can't have everything and everywhere. These difficulties are being overcome at the moment with the forces of the Border Police, there is an organization created and there is no problem functioning. The problem is the fact that really this technique wears out very quickly. And if we really look at the existing regulations, which are typical in these types of organizations, an army, the police, the regulations really cannot be respected, but the conditions are such that all of this is taken into account, and appropriate measures are taken. With regard to the other issue, I suppose we can further discuss it if it is of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u76	Thank you. Is there a question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Prime Minister, my specific question is about the functioning of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers and in particular: what organisation was created for the collection, processing and analysis of the various types of operational information that is being made available on the services channels? By law, the Security Council has a special structural information-analytic activity unit where all information must be collected, processed, analysed, so that it can be provided to all other authorities relevant to security and public order, so that appropriate action can be planned to counter the risks. I understand from public information that there was some problem with the existence, i.e. the organization and work of the Security Council. In the previous government, I do not recall that body being collected, although it is legally established and should meet periodically and so on. Given that, in principle, operational services, and intelligence, and Counterintelligence are very sensitive to the information they obtain, have and usually do not like to share it, because it would become clear their source and so on, I would again like to raise the question: is the operational information processing unit working normally with the Security Council? Because in order for preventive action to be taken against certain risks, as in the case of the migrant wave, it is very important to have reliable, well-checked, forward-looking information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u78	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, public information is available. At the beginning of the mandate of the caretaker government, more precisely in the beginning of July, we held a meeting of this Security Council at the Council of Ministers and one of the findings was that its Secretariat was never created, has never been structured and has not worked within the meaning of what you call an analytical unit, which must offer solutions either on a daily basis or in the event of a crisis. One of the tasks of this next Council, which we are calling upon on 9 September, is precisely this one to close this circle and institutionalise this Secretariat, which will play precisely this role. It is not so much a matter of the sensitivity of the services and their unwillingness to share information, sharing of information can be done in different ways and quite so to speak, in the interests of the duties of this Security Council and this analytical unit that must work on a daily basis. So far, we've made the necessary preparations, we have a decision on how to do that. In fact, at this council we will have one final discussion with the presence of its members so as to take their consent, then we are ready to make this Secretariat a permanent functioning structure of the Council of Ministers, as it should be and as it is written in the Law on the functioning and protection of national security, so in this regard we work, we have a solution. From now on, this Secretariat and his analysis can lead to what? Until the need to analyze additional tasks and laws that have already been given to him. We should also get acquainted with this analysis, what proposals and what appropriate from the point of view of the state interest, the public interest, more changes and proposals can be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u80	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, although much of the world community is surprised by what is happening in Afghanistan, it is not, in fact, a surprise for many people. As early as the Doha agreement was signed on 29 February last year, it is known that a transfer of power from foreign forces to the Taliban is imminent. Yeah, maybe no one expected it to happen in such a violent way, and it would have such a direct impact, plus some unpleasant aspects that come out, but basically analysts at the time predicted that it would happen, so the situation is not that forceful. My question is related to the diplomatic efforts Bulgaria is making, in particular for diplomatic efforts towards Afghanistan's neighbouring countries, which are most important in terms of absorption of the migratory flow, namely Iran, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Pakistan, partly and China, because there is a slightly more specific border that both countries have. Bulgarian diplomacy has traditional bilateral relations with these countries. Please tell me exactly what action the state has taken, is there any kind of foreign aid in relation to this country so that they can take part of the migratory flow there so that it does not reach our border? And I ask you to include in your answer how the presidential institution is included in these shuttles, because it also has its own place, traditionally, we have history in this presidents to be good ambassadors in these countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u82	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! If we think of this as a surprise or not, I agree with the assessment that, on the basis of the Doha Agreement, we were largely expecting that there would be such a type of development. Perhaps the surprise is the fact that the general public was not aware of precisely the details of this agreement in Doha and the deadlines, because if we look at, including the development of the situation on the ground in Afghanistan in mid-August, the Afghans themselves were surprised, and such comments are read by the people from there, how the army literally disappeared in one day. So from our point of view, whether or not this has been foreseen in this case, it is not so important to look for the answer to this question, but rather to the other question: how do we proceed in the current situation? Even if there are contracts, even if one was made roughly, so to speak, a road map of how to make the surrender of power in Afghanistan happen, this is a shock for ordinary people there. In fact, this wave and the people who left Afghanistan began long before mid-August. We also know the figures that there are already millions of refugees of Afghan origin in Afghanistan's neighbouring countries. What happens in these countries is important. In fact, Bulgarian diplomacy mainly with its contacts, with its presence where possible in the respective neighbouring countries and accreditation makes it possible to obtain the necessary information that would be useful in making decisions in our purely national aspect. With regard to helping the countries concerned to maintain this migratory flow, but people who have received temporary protection or asylum in the countries concerned, rather the Bulgarian diplomacy in coordination with European diplomacy, with the instruments of the European Commission, including the meeting that took place yesterday in Slovenia is dedicated and one of its topics is exactly what are the roads and ways of assistance, including financial instruments of the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan. So at the moment, in this volume of refugees, people seeking asylum in neighbouring countries should be closer to their homeland and with the potential and opportunity to return when they consider that conditions allow. In particular, in the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan we have very good coordination with neighbouring Pakistan, where there are currently Afghan citizens with whom Bulgarian diplomacy is related. These Afghan citizens are expected to be part of the citizens of Afghanistan, where Bulgaria will offer asylum and will soon be on our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u84	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues! The topic of mastering the upcoming migratory flow towards Bulgaria's border has already been discussed by many countries. There is indeed a risk that some of the questions will be covered. My question is caused by a novelty we heard in your answer just now. He was also somewhat affected in your next answer to a question by Mr. Atanasov. You announced that at the forthcoming Security Council meeting at the first point, you would propose certain measures to address certain weaknesses in the Council's work. I would like to invite you, if you have this opportunity now, to share in particular what would you suggest at the opening of the Security Council? What are the measures that you will propose to address the weaknesses and problems in the functioning of the Security Council that you noted in its first meeting in July? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u86	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm really afraid we've started repeating ourselves already. This is what I have said that we have found that there has been no implementation of the Law over the years and there has not been such a secretariat. We've confirmed that he's gone. We're creating it now. At the moment before the Council meeting itself, I would not like to speak in detail, because the Council is such a type of advisory body where the final decision may have certain details. However, yes, we are creating such an authority called the Security Council, the idea being to have a permanent composition of the Council of Ministers................................................................................... The details will be learned once we have a final solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u88	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. We start with an expression of attitude. There's such a people here, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Prime Minister, of all the answers that you have given not only now, but also in your previous participations, we from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" we can take into account that the measures taken to counter the increased migratory pressure and the illegal passage of foreigners into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Council of Ministers and personally by you are visible. The results are visible. It is particularly important that they in their organizational aspect include strengthening the facility, which was mentioned on the border, which was built by the Bulgarian army in extremely short time a few years ago. Now whether it is good or not, so at the moment you yourself said on your visit that in some areas especially along the Bulgarian-Turkish border, it is also there, of course, it is in good condition, but thanks to the terrain it is not in such good condition. Of course, all MPs in our view should take into account that this is a facility that is created in a mountain, heavily crossed area, maintaining it as it is entrusted to the district governors, is difficult, cannot be done and really requires effort. Organisational measures with regard to technical surveillance systems, including from air, which is good. Provision and maintenance of the high-pass roads, preparation of the Border Police, which is in fact entrusted with the primary responsibility for crossing illegal traffic, including the provision of personnel with everything necessary and together with the provision of the necessary high-passing equipment for action in a high-crossed area. It is also important to include the participation of the armed forces where necessary in the security of the state border, which is regulated in art. 57, para. 3 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces, where it is also said that its participation is not fundamental, this is additional, before 2015 it was adopted by a decision of the National Assembly "amendment in the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, participation in the security of the state border precisely on this occasion during the previous migrant wave. Along with that in art. 57 it is said that the decision of the Council of Ministers for the participation of units of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria is accompanied by an act of the Council of Ministers, which provides financial and resource insurance, which means and is an additional opportunity of the Council of Ministers to provide this financial contribution outside the current situation for updating the budget. We believe that this is extremely important. In this sense, with three decrees of the Council of Ministers not only by the Ministry of Defence, but also by other ministries such as restructuring the costs of supporting efforts in the framework of the crisis and other pressing costs before the budget was updated this summer, certain financial resources were taken away, which, in total, with those that are blocked, 5%, to all ministries by the end of the year, deprive the Ministry of Defence of certain costs which are primarily related to capital construction costs. We have no doubt that you will accept the best solution if some of these funds need to be recovered within the meaning of the army's participation if necessary in securing the state border. As a second measure, we take into account the good organisation in terms of overall coordination, as well as the information provision that has been mentioned, which is extremely important. We believe that the necessary measures are being taken by the Council of Ministers "an important issue which you have addressed on several occasions is indeed the state of work of the Security Council, under the Law on the Protection of the Functioning of the National Security System. I really do. Until now, there has been only the post of Secretary-General of the National Security Council. This Council could not even, within the framework of the strategic national security review, prepare a final report outside the strategic review it had carried out in the armed forces. This secretariat, we also believe, is important. We see that you are taking such measures. His task under the Law is to play the role of a situational centre, which is extremely important in terms of coordination, obtaining all information and proposing measures to the Security Council, respectively the Council of Ministers and you personally for taking up attitude. By assessing your efforts, we believe that all measures will be taken from the border to the Serbian border in the future, along with that of crossing the sewerage of people who are engaged in this business, from the border to the Serbian border, and the establishment of such people on the territory of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u90	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Attitude from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.. Welcome, Mr. Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u91	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have tabled this proposal for a hearing of the Prime Minister and three other ministers to see what the state's readiness is and what measures it has taken over the past few months to prepare for the future migrant and humanitarian crisis. Whether there will be one, I think it's clear to everyone that there will be one. The situation in Afghanistan has shown, unfortunately, the humanitarian crisis, because, above all, it is a humanitarian crisis, and the situation is, unfortunately, not going to improve. This will also lead to additional effects in other countries, first the border crossings, then the neighbouring ones and so on, until a really high tide is created towards the European Union. So the first part of our questions was what support do we seek from our allies and partners in the European Union, as other countries that are directly threatened by a future such crisis? It became clear that we are solidarity with them in accepting up to 70 Afghan citizens, which is correct, but here the question is to see what solidarity we wanted to achieve from our partners. We asked a specific question: what bilateral talks have you, as Prime Minister, had with your fellow prime ministers of the EU member states, or with the Commission? We didn't get an answer. We have received an answer as to what bilateral co-operation there is within the ministries. But everyone knows that if we want to achieve something within the European Union as an agreement for the country, we need to walk our path, convince our partners from other Member States how to help Bulgaria. And perhaps that would have been clear if you were in Slovenia right now at the Council meeting to participate in it as prime minister on a level with other Heads of Government, but the government's decision is different. Therefore, unfortunately, we are aware that it seems that the last month has been lost and no bilateral talks with the other Member States have been held to seek support from them. There were still formats for the ministerial meetings. Three forms of ministerial meetings are held supposed to the internal affairs, foreign affairs and defence. I'll start with the defense. The subject of migration and migration rather than the crisis in Afghanistan will not be a topic. There will be very different aspects of this crisis. As far as I am concerned, we will see the results tomorrow whether there will be anything specifically agreed on for the border, but here I would like to focus on the two meetings that were held by the interior ministers, which took place in August. On 18 August there was an extraordinary meeting of the interior ministers, notice on the integrated crisis response mechanism, to respond to the migrant crisis in Lithuania, Latvia and Poland, born by migrants rather by Belarus. This meeting has ended with concrete measures to help these three countries. On August 31st, a few days ago, it was the regular meeting of the interior ministers, the main topics which are clear from the documents of the conclusions of the meeting, as they are public, the Slovenian Presidency published them, the main topic is Afghanistan. And here to respond to colleague Stanislav Anastasov, I think it was who asked a question: how is support for Afghanistan's border countries? That was the focus of this meeting. Not support at the southern border, but the focus was on how to help Afghanistan's border countries meet refugees there, set them up, humanitarian support so that they could stay there and eventually return to their own countries. The second thing that was important was strengthening Frontex's structures in general. These are the two topics discussed. There is not a word in the conclusions of the summit on reinforcement or in any way support for the southern external border of the European Union. Unfortunately, this shows that within the European Union, the government is rather moving after things, and it is not proactive to seek support from our partners to deal with this crisis in the future, which means one, at this rate, at the earliest, we can expect help from the European Union at the beginning of next year, and in the next regular government, I hope, this time, which will do this job. On the subject of the border guards themselves. I'm impressed with the change of speech. Since the beginning of August, it has been heard how the update of the budget is extremely important, precisely to provide security funds at the border. I will not quote your speeches, the Finance Minister, even last week the Minister of Defence came out and said that from 1 September he signed an order for the participation of Bulgarian soldiers in joint operations with the Ministry of Interior on security at the border. These are public statements and they are in the archives, there is no need to look for them. There was even a special Advisory Council on National Security on the topic and this was one of the main topics: take the budget to have money for the border. The only thing that happened on Friday was a budget, and from now on, as we're listening, it's not that much of a problem. The situation is under control, we have minimal costs that can be covered by PMS, and there is no need to intervene the army in security at the border. Something that is fundamentally contrary to what has been announced by the caretaker government in the last few weeks. The only difference is that the State Budget Bill was adopted at first reading, and by the way, after a post of one of the leaders of a party in the National Assembly, which says that his party will support the budget only for the money for the border. It appears that they are not so necessary, but in the end we will be responsible MPs and we will propose that such mechanisms be available in the Council of Ministers so that, when the crisis is strengthened, these measures can be answered financially. Here I would just like to supplement my colleague Alexandrov for the money and the three decrees with which the measures were adopted. We need to pay attention to PMS No 192, adopted by the caretaker government, where the money taken is not from the buffers of 5% under art. 106, and of the real money that remains, that is, the inviolable 95%. Sorry about the weather, but we have an important hearing of four ministers. Usually when there is more than one minister, the time is more than 5 minutes, so consider it. I'm done. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u92	That's why I'm not interrupting you, Mr. Gadget. I gave Mr. Alexandrov an opportunity. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u93	The PMS in question, by the way, takes 14 million of the money for salaries to the Ministry of Interior, apart from Minister Rashkov spent another 5 million on compensations, that is half of the money for salaries to the Ministry of Interior, which the caretaker government currently offers in the State Budget Act, really spent money from the caretaker government for salaries. In other words, do not say that the police will lose their wages due to any other action, as you have spent nearly 20 million of the remuneration money in the Ministry of Interior, mainly in May. In conclusion, I would just like to say a few things about the second question that we asked and did not receive an answer to Minister Rashkov, and he is: how are the measures in the camps respected? Today there are announced new anti-coffee measures. We expected an answer, but we didn't get it to see how these camps and reception centers didn't become outbreaks of the infection. [[Noise and lines.]] We hope you still take action.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u95	And lastly, an interesting statistic. At the end of July, Minister Rashkov of this tribune said that between 70 and 85% of the capacity were filled at the Migration Department, while the State Agency for Refugees was 22 per cent. Last week, on Friday, on a response of Mr. Vigenin Minister Rashkov said that the migration department was filled at 75.6% and the State Agency for Refugees 29%. I mean, it's like...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u97	...there is no growth of refugees and migrants in Bulgaria, provided that every day there are...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u99	...press releases of the Ministry of Interior for captured illegal migrants. And here the main question is: does anyone know where these people are? [[(Replication by the National Representative Nikolai Hadzhigenov: "GERB enjoys some special privileges?" Are they enjoying any special privileges?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I left Mr. Alexandrov a few minutes ago deliberately because there was a hearing of two ministers. We are moving on to the next relationship. The attitude applies to both hearings. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u101	Thank you, Madam President. It's five minutes, that's what we agreed. At your discretion, you can't give ten to any of the other groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u102	That's right. I don't give ten. I'll give you a few minutes in five.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u103	Several out of five, it's nine, but anyway, it's not about listening to free reasoning here. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues! First of all, we went a little overboard this week with these hearings, it's not just this one, of course, but especially on the subject of Afghanistan. And that is why I think that you should have just accepted.. I am referring to the Members of the National Assembly, the idea of being only the Prime Minister's hearing, to be the first point on Friday, because, as can be expected and, as in time, this has been distributed, we talked yesterday, we interrupted, we continued today. When my time is up, Madam President, I will also make a procedural proposal for tomorrow. The idea of BSP to request the hearing that should be held tomorrow was not so much to give a reason, how to say, on the one hand, to disturb the Bulgarian citizens, on the other hand, the MPs to wonder what questions to ask from and only to fill their time, because some of the questions and answers were probably in this direction, but rather to hear from the government and, above all, from the Prime Minister, that the government is well aware of the problems the state is facing, that it is taking the necessary measures, although the National Assembly is probably next week to be disbanded, there is a government that, and the next official, which is able to carry out its tasks of overcoming and preventing the threats that emerge before us. Now, given that at 12:00, the blitzcontrol begins, if anyone has missed, may add some more questions on this subject, but Prime Minister, basically, there is a crowded way to solve these problems. Six or seven years ago, we faced an unprecedented crisis. The institutions then, although difficult, guessed how this could happen, so it is much easier to take the necessary measures to date. From what we heard from you yesterday, and today I can say, both from you and from the ministers, that the government is well aware of what it is facing and is able to deal with these problems. At the same time, however, they expected a little more orderly to present the measures that are being taken, in terms of, firstly, the coordination between the institutions of DANS, DAR, Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for Refugees, in this case the Ministry of Defence has some indirect task that will become direct at some point perhaps, let us say that financial resources will have, including the update of the budget that is to come, but let us assume that it will not happen. Even then, the government is not threatened by a lack of resources that can be targeted. I say some of these things and repeat them because what we wanted Bulgarian citizens to hear is not to have concerns, not vice versa, with lengthy hearings here to create additional stress on this topic. With regard to procedures, nothing was heard, and there was no time, perhaps, to ask that question. It may be worth thinking about speeding up or getting ready to speed up procedures for granting refugee status on asylum applications. I'm not going in here in detail, you know why that's necessary. With regard to the partition facility it became clear that there are problems, but they are not unsolvable and that measures are being taken in this direction. The most important thing, however, is to work the technique as well, because the fence itself, when they already reach it, can hardly be stopped, to be sure that the cameras work because it has been months and years before they work. I'm not sure at the time of 100% the existing technique can be relied on. It became clear about patrolling that the police increased their presence, that if necessary there would be military units to join, so that the people would be free. More measures against traffickers, because trafficking networks that are ours are part of European, of course. It seems to me that lately we have not heard news of broken such networks, but they are only waiting to bring refugees closer to the border to strengthen their activity, so more preventive activity is needed here. What is important for me personally, for our parliamentary group, as Minister Rashkov said last week, there is no need for them to think about further strengthening the capacity of the current and, of course, to take some preventive measures related to potential and epidemiological explosions in these centres, because this could become a problem. I conclude that I was not very pleased with what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said yesterday, but perhaps because they were in a hurry, perhaps because the talks are currently taking place at the level of ministers. It is a pity that we cannot comment on these questions with him tomorrow. It seems to me that, at this stage, the European Union is slowing down with its response, both politically and purely organisational, that there must be a comprehensive plan for Afghanistan, which still does not have to have a very clear and specific support for neighbouring countries. These are all things that our representatives in these councils, both on foreign affairs and on home affairs, should put. There should also be thought of updating or a new agreement with Turkey at European Union level, but here I would say that I believe that the dialogue should be strengthened both politically and purely organisationally, along the lines of border services with Turkey and Greece. Again I say: not because there is already some serious problem, but because we have the opportunity to predict and to have preventive measures to solve these issues. Finally, you know that last year the European Solidarity Mechanism was adopted. On this line are possible forms of pressure on Bulgaria when and if the situation becomes more severe. I hope from now on both you and the next caretaker government, and perhaps the future regularly, should do what is necessary to make it clear that Bulgaria, if it takes and if it is forced to make such commitments, should be with clear consideration of the socio-economic situation in the country. That concludes the statement, and if I may take...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u105	...by procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u106	Yes, you have the floor by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u107	Either way, I'm out on the stand so I don't have to do it again after the speeches go through, the relationship. I suggest a t. 1 for tomorrow, which provides for a re-hearing of Prime Minister Yanev for Afghanistan, as we agreed, to drop out of the agenda, because I think that everything possible was said yesterday and today, and there is no point again and again filling Parliament's time with similar hearings. Let's try to do something practical in the little time we have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I put to the vote Mr. Vigenin's motion to drop the item. One on the agenda for tomorrow. Vote 139 MPs: 87, Against 43, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. [[Replys: "Prevoting! "]] It's a re-vote. Vote 175 MPs: 110 against 50, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next attitude from the group of the Democratic Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u109	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Prime Minister, we have released you for tomorrow, but I would still like to point out at the beginning of my speech that it is commendable that you are often in the National Assembly because the former Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u110	Colleagues, keep quiet in the hall! Mrs. Ninova, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u111	...hasn't stepped foot in the last few years. So don't be surprised that you are now finding certain shortcomings in the work of the authorities that are at the Council of Ministers, because there was no one to ask him why they are not functioning. And as for the measures that the government must take and take to guard our border, especially at the Bulgarian-Turkish border, relations have been expressed here, it has been said much, I do not want to repeat my colleagues. But I would like to stress something very thick, because I do not know if they are aware of the colleagues, today from this tribune you have said something extremely scandalous, namely that a body created by a law that has a very important function and role in the protection of national security, as is the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, has not been completed in years under the law. Certain important structural units that should exist in this body were not at all, as is the Secretariat of the Security Council, and then we wonder why something or other has not happened. Because the former prime minister only liked to be informed and there was no need for other authorities to concentrate the information. I hope that at this meeting, which you announced you called on 9 September, this problem will be overcome, as it is extremely important that different types of crises can be intercepted, especially those directly related to national security, be intercepted, and that with reliable information, previously collected, evaluated and given to the relevant authorities, which should take measures to counter these crises. By the way, I want to tell you because a long time ago I was a member of this Security Council when it was originally established. It was created in connection with the Kosovo crisis and was then functioning extremely efficiently. On a daily basis, this body met and every day all operational information entering the channels of the various security services was reported and concrete measures were taken. This information in the past can be found in the archives. It would be useful to you now in making your decision, because it is extremely important to emphasise............................... the interests of foreign special services of other countries go unnoticed, because it is working on the secret front, so to speak. But the consequences of these crises are noticeable over time. They are detrimental to the state and very often lead to severe financial losses of the Bulgarian state. It is commendable that you want to wake up this body, set it up and let there be control over the input channels, in the sense that it can be really assessed what the operational capabilities of our special services are. Whether they have genuine ones to obtain forward information that will be useful to the Bulgarian state to counter the crises concerned. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u112	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Prime Minister, if you'll excuse me, two remarks first. It would have been nice if your deputy prime ministers were here. Of course, I exclude Minister Stoev, who is clearly committed to Gymnich, who said so yesterday. The first round of rounds, please pay attention, as we received answers within the procedure, which were in a personal capacity, that none of your deputies and ministers could be in Parliament in a personal capacity. Everyone here is only in the official capacity and the answers they give are also in the official capacity. The second is, of course, thank you for the good tone of this discussion. Thank you for your information. I personally thank you for not treating me as too young or too tall or too large a shoe size in the circle of the joke. We appreciate it, it's important for good parliamentaryism. We at the DPS are not very pleased with what Boyko Rashkov expressed in terms of the ZP, and the exceptions he provides for the construction and repair of the border facility. Strongly, I would say, we are worried about the answer, because it fully coincides with the opinion, even his words coincide with the importers of this change, which was made 2016, then 2018. These are the politicians Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Valeri Simeonov and Krasimir Karakachanov. Now this is déjà vu, Mr. Prime Minister, and it's not very pleasant in this context. And that the renovation of the fence will be transferred by the district governors to the Border Police Directorate, which is subject to Minister Rashkov, does not comfort us at all, even on the contrary. On the subject itself, you stressed and agreed that a long time ago it was known what was going to happen to Afghanistan, although the exact scale could not be predicted. We also know for a long time that Bulgaria is the first line of the European Union for migration, there is no surprise in this. We also know for a long time that the European Commission has been having talks with Turkey and because of the large number of refugees on its territory it is not willing to take on more than Afghanistan. Not to mention that this creates internal problems for them, both of a financial nature and of a political nature, so to date this is impossible. However, Mr. Prime Minister, history shows, however much we talk about the fence, that we will welcome them with armed guards, with water cannons, with helicopters, with drones, that no fence facility, unfortunately, has managed to stop people who are running for their lives and for the future of their families and children. Even the Great Wall of China didn't fulfill its purpose when it had to do it. So we really rely on more diplomacy. We appreciate the efforts you make within the European Union. We will be happy to see a little more effort within NATO as they too have something to do on this issue. Of course, however, we will also be happy to use all the historical links we have with the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan, because they can be very valuable both for Bulgarian diplomacy and for our partners from the European Union. As long as we use them the right way. I can't hide the lack of an answer as to what the president's role is as a good diplomat in this process. This is extremely important. At such a complex time, when absolutely all the resources of the state and absolutely all the diplomatic efforts are needed, any institution that can do something is obliged to do so. Yes, there used to be friction between a government and a presidential institution. To date, I am 100% convinced that there are none, and we will be happy to see efforts that will allow the police not to go there together with the military to chase families along the border, not to mention the much uglier phenomenon, namely those people to be marauded along the border and to be both trafficked and to be victims of human trafficking channels, which I may be paying attention to the elephant in the room, cannot happen without the assistance of state institutions. This is an alarming finding. There are a lot of human rights organizations watching him, and that's clear. We trust that you, as a caretaker government, will obviously have duties for some time, whether in this format, whether in another, this is no longer our business, but you will be able to prevent these ugly phenomena so that there is no migratory pressure, but not to see other ugly phenomena, namely marauding and human trafficking, which is purely organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u114	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. And stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u115	Thank you. Honourable President, Prime Minister, honourable Members! We really spent a lot of time on the subject for a few days. I welcome your frequent appearance in the National Assembly. From our parliamentary group, we believe that this presence and the answers, the feedback you receive from the MPs, is a restoration of good democratic practices and principles of accountability and control of the executive by the National Assembly. Regarding the subject and substance of the hearings, I think we can give a positive assessment of the work, of the measures you have taken, of the measures you are planning and of the actions you are planning to take. We believe that in the face of the Council of Ministers led by you, we have an executive power that is responsible, competent and adequate to act on the forthcoming migrant wave. Of course, essential, and this will remain in our attention, is the adequate financial, material and technical provision of all state bodies and institutions that have a bearing on the work and actions of security at the state border. Particular attention will be paid to both procedures and action in Parliament in terms of budget update, so that this work can be adequately secured and also in accordance with good budgetary procedures to secure your cabinet financially. We also encourage active diplomatic action, on the one hand, in bilateral diplomacy with regard to Turkey and Greece, in coordinating bilateral and trilateral action in overcoming common migratory pressure for all of us. We also call for you to exercise the necessary activity within the framework of coordination with our partners in the European Union, on the one hand, to obtain more assistance and reinforcement under Frontex to our border authorities, on the other hand, to activate this element of the European migrant policy, which will help appropriate neighbouring countries to build centres, temporary accommodation for migrants, so that they remain close to their homeland and, accordingly, be returned more quickly when normalising the environment in Afghanistan. In conclusion, I will repeat our positive assessment of your actions, of the planned measures. Unfortunately, Parliament will not be able to continue its work, as the situation is dynamic, life is variable, it is quite possible that the coming months will need some additional parliamentary penalty for the work of the Council of Ministers. The responsibility for this is in the National Assembly that it will not be able to extend its activities, but in your face, in the face of the Council of Ministers, we believe that the country will continue to have a responsible and competent governance for the coming months until the people elect the next parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u116	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. That concludes today's hearing. Thank you, Prime Minister. We're about to begin the blitz-control on you, so you can stay in the room. I'll read you a message first: Today, on 2 September 2021, a General project was received, based on the draft amendments and amendments to the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in criminal proceedings adopted on 1 September 2021. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 77, para. Two of the subs. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Prime Minister! I am proposing a reduction of the term between the two votes to three days. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u118	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. I put to the vote the proposal so put forward to reduce the time limit for proposals between the first and the second votes of three days. Vote 182 MPs: 115, against 66, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The deadline starts tomorrow. Colleagues, given the fact that the Budget and Finance Committee announces a meeting tomorrow to watch the two small budgets, I propose that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly be held on Tuesday. On the basis of art. 42, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the National Assembly hold an extraordinary plenary session on 7 September 2021, Tuesday, at 11.00 on the following agenda: 1. A bill for Ratification of a contract for donation of kits for a test for a test for a CIVID-19 of the Republic of Bulgaria by the European Commission and a second contract for donation of kits for a test for a CIVID-19 of the Republic of Bulgaria by the European Commission. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. A draft law on the Ratification of a tripartite agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by Astra Zeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Bhutan and the Kingdom of Astra Zeneka, and a bilateral agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by Astra Zeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Bhutan. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Please vote. 195 MPs voted: 128 against 62, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We start with the blitzcontrol of art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly You're entitled to two questions. Let's start with the first question from the "There is such a people" - here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u119	Madam President, gentlemen, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My current question relates to the new anti-epidemic measures introduced and what is the government's readiness to support the business that will be affected. These are both the businesses of restaurants, restaurants, hotels and the transport industry. They are a large part of the gross domestic product and hundreds of thousands of employed in these businesses. What are the decisions taken by the Council of Ministers so that they can be supported and no increase in unemployment and closing businesses as well as bankruptcys? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u120	What's the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u121	To the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u122	Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As many times representatives of the Council of Ministers have said, including I have said several times, we are trying to find the right balance between measures and care for people's health, respectively care for business and students, in the case of the upcoming school year. Currently, the recent measures that have been announced by the Ministry of Health, I think are sparing enough and set a number of restrictions mainly for work, collection and certain types of businesses that are closed. To a large extent, outdoor measures are much more liberal. At the same time, the mechanisms that provide for certain compensation where a relevant business will be forced to operate in new conditions are in the usual 60/40 frames, where the business operates, and 75/0 where it is closed. Of course, these funds are not in the budget and depend on the update that is in the hands of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u124	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the floor for a line, if you like? Would you like some, Mr. Danailov? No, okay. We move on to questions from GERB-SDS. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The world is in a humanitarian crisis caused by the coronavirus epidemic. Bulgaria is in the midst of the fourth wave of COVID 19. Political responsibility is currently measured by the responsible management of the health crisis. The news of the day is that the Ministry of Health still gathered the courage to introduce some restrictive measures, another point is that they do not comply with the plan adopted by the Council of Ministers. The line of Minister Katsarov that applies them with reluctance once again partially compromises the implementation. The health crisis is extremely beneficial for political use. We have been and have witnessed this, and the responsibility lies with all of us because, unfortunately, there are still unbelievers in society that there is such a virus. However, the main responsibility lies with those who drew dividing lines among the Bulgarians. These lines took the form of a gap that fragmented society and stopped its development. For us the division of the Bulgarian people is a danger, not an opportunity. In the context of the current health situation, it seemed illogical the choice of Minister of Health because Dr. Katsarov is known for his critical attitude towards anti-epidemic measures and anti-Vaxer views. The subsequent actions of the minister of the service also did not contribute to the unification of the health threat. The dismissal of prominent figures from the National Operational Headquarters, the rude and unprincipled personnel in hospitals, the unconfirmed accusations of abuse, the reduction of the funds paid to the medics on the first line, the inconclusive vaccination campaign, all led to the fact that we abandoned the medics to fight for the life and health of the Bulgarians once again, and we are playing in elections. Against this background, before introducing stricter anti-epidemic measures, the Council of Ministers decided to donate and resell vaccines against COVID-19. We have donated vaccines to the Kingdom of Bhutan, northern Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are selling vaccines to the Kingdom of Norway. My question to you is: what motivates this decision? Probably the World Health Organisation's call for countries with high gross domestic product to donate to poor countries. Why the official Council of Ministers does not want to be responsible for this decision and transfers by ratification of the National Assembly post-factum to verify this action, and the management of the National Assembly decides that this is so important, and makes a point in an extraordinary meeting to make us a rubber stamp of the decision of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I gave you almost a minute more. You have the floor to answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, specifically on the issue of donations, the sale of vaccines, must go through ratification because these are the conditions. These are tripartite contracts between the European Commission, the producer concerned and the country that received them, in this case Bulgaria. In this case, it is part of the procedure. From this point of view, the Council of Ministers has made all these decisions to donate or sell to the National Assembly for ratification, as the option of not obtaining this ratification in time leads to the state's reputational damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u128	Thank you, Prime Minister. Would you like a line, Mrs. Daritkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u129	Dear Prime Minister! Yeah, there's probably a risk of reputational damage, because that donation has actually already been made. The donation was decided and realized by the Council of Ministers. And here the National Assembly is put in a role in which it is responsible for a decision of the Council of Ministers from which the Council of Ministers is fleeing. Indeed, responsibility is a huge deficit in modern political reality, but there is no way to raise the rating of the National Assembly when the official Council of Ministers uses it to reaffirm an action which it has already committed and has not introduced us into this decision in the course of the procedure. Moreover, the way things were presented in the Health Commission said that this decision had long been made. Therefore, I believe that such an attitude should be revised because you have always claimed that here we should respect the fact that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary governance under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Would you like the floor for the coat, Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs Daritkova, no donation or sale has been made so far before the ratification of the necessary instruments has been carried out. Secondly, what we are talking about, and most often about these vaccines, I will give you an example of the donation to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Council of Ministers has had to make this type of decision a second time since the intended batch of vaccines in the first decision, the deadline expired on 31 August. So these actions are fully appropriate, they are judged and ultimately we are talking really about different vaccines, but the biggest problem is with the vaccine - Astra Zeneka. Many people gave up using it, including in Bulgaria, after its use was officially discontinued by a decision of the government, if I am not fooled by the memory - April or March, I am not sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u132	Thank you, Prime Minister. We move on to the next question from BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u133	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy Ministers! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, it became clear that in the budget of the Agency, there is no money planned to secure the started and some completed activities related to repair and maintenance of road infrastructure. The reason is also clear: the previous government did not foresee them in the budget for 2021, that is to say, we are in a particular situation, there are signed contracts, there are also awards made, significantly above the value of the contracts, all in violation of the Public Procurement Act. The budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency for this year for repair and road maintenance of the road infrastructure is 382 million. BGN, but as early as the end of 2019 and the beginning of 2020 contracts have been concluded with contractors companies, and the Road Agency has committed to payment this year and next year, amounting to 2.9 billion. lv. In 2021, a billion and a half of this amount must be paid to companies and another half in 2022. However, this money is missing in the budget allocated for 2021. This, amongst other things, leads to State funds for repairs, and therefore the workers have not received their salaries for the months of May and June, and some for April. Enduring jobs are threatened, there is a risk of leaving specialists and highly qualified workers, as well as account stashing, suspension of activities and blocking the overall activity of companies. In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question to you is: how many workers and employees are affected by the problem; how many companies are working to secure the necessary financial resources to pay the amounts due; what are the possible sources of funding; are budget corrections necessary and are they provided for in the government's requested update; is there a clear plan to pay the amounts, which will allow the salaries paid by employees to be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Workers and employees who are affected by the problem are over 1880. These are workers and employees of three companies from the road industry. This afternoon at 14.30 am, the Regional Policy Committee will hold a meeting to discuss this issue in detail, and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, I suppose, and the Minister of Finance, will give comprehensive answers to this question. It works to secure the necessary financial resources. It is set in the update of the state budget for 2021 so as to pay the salaries of the more than 1880 workers and employees affected by these three companies. There is a clear plan to pay these amounts, of course, after an update of the budget, so that the salaries paid by workers and employees are paid, even though they are money for activities that are not provided by law, are therefore negotiated under the respective contracts between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the three companies in the construction industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Donev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I take the floor not so much for a reply as to express satisfaction with your answer and your intention to seek a solution to the questions, because if there was madness on the part of the government, the government should have funds that are not laid down in the budgets and to sign contracts, in no case should this madness be transferred at the expense of the workers who have conscientiously earned what they need to be paid for. So I express satisfaction with the answer and hope that you will find a solution for the full satisfaction of the payments of these 1880 workers so that no one remains harmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Would you care for a back-up, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! Just one more point that we're talking about 36 million here. Eight hundred and 662 lv. Forty-three pennies. This is the money that is due to employees and employees from the three companies affected. I hope that the budget update in this part will happen so that the workers and employees are satisfied and that the work they have done will be repaid accordingly. The labour inspectorate shall be inspected by the relevant companies to specify other parameters for which there is a delay in the amounts for salaries not paid from April, May and June respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Donev. A question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. Come in, Mr. Tafrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the Prime Minister. Dear Prime Minister! My question concerns the situation of congestion in recent days and hours literally around the Danube Bridge, which worries the citizens of Ruse. You know, it's a system problem. Trucks make taps around the Danube Bridge, become road accidents, companies lose money, Russians can't move. I know the government has been making efforts lately in this direction. There was a meeting, as we recall, of the Minister of Transport with the Romanian Minister of Transport, I wonder what the results of this meeting are? I also know, if I am not mistaken, yesterday the governor Mr. Balgarinov was in Romania to negotiate with our Romanian partners, but the situation is still critical. Last night, even after eleven hours between Martin and Ruse, there was a long line of trucks, and as far as I can tell, this was the case this morning. My question is: what are the short-term measures that the government intends to take to overcome the current crisis? It is, of course, related to the requirements of the Romanian authorities for PCR tests related to the sanitary situation in Bulgaria, which further slows down the crossing of the Danube Bridge, but our customs officers systematically complain that they should monitor the trafficking of people, do very detailed checks, especially on trucks. So my question is: what are the short-term and longer-term measures that the government intends to take to overcome the current crisis, because it is precisely a crisis? We know there's an opening of a cargo truck parking lot in the free zone in Ruse, but it's only for a hundred trucks and it won't be enough, we shouldn't be making these illusions. So the Russians are looking forward to your answer, Prime Minister. I also use the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, because some of the problems with Ruse's crossing regime seem to be going through simplification of the administrative procedures of border control, and this too many experts say that it can somewhat ease the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u142	Thank you, Mr. Tafrov. Come in for an answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Tafrov! I can tell you that the customs border of the Danube Bridge at Ruse is not the only one who is experiencing difficulties at the moment and is not the only crisis we are talking about in this regard. Crisis, albeit minor crises, may not have become public knowledge, but for this industry, they are aware. In the last few months, such mini-crises have been on the other Danube Bridge at Vidin. Currently there is a crisis at the other border crossings and at the border with Turkey and with Serbia. On the one hand, they relate somewhat to the fact that Bulgaria as an external border and therefore the airport is increased, especially since economic things are different compared to last year, when the crisis was reduced, including the importance of this industry. In addition, there are clearly seasonally quite increased airports between Western Europe and Turkey with Turkish citizens living and working in Western Europe. This makes it difficult to process, as you have said, their purely documentary and physical checks that are done in both personal cars and heavy goods vehicles. You noted yourself that regarding the Danube Bridge at Ruse, already in Vidin, the attitude and decisions made by the Romanian side to require PCR tests further delay the procedure. Minister Rashkov and I have discussed the topic, including whether and how a better organisation can be made. The organization is as good as it gets. Checks cannot take less technological time. At the moment, I do not have the statistics on the Danube Bridge at Ruse, but I can tell you that there were days last week at the border crossing with Captain Andreevo, where they were processed on a daily basis over 12,000 cars. If we divide it by minutes, we'll see that this is the maximum that can be done as speed and processing. The measures have been taken with regard to freight and heavy traffic. We are aware that the buffer parking in Ruse's territory is not enough. We're in communication with the district manager. We know that they have a near-ready project for a new parking lot that can be equipped with a capacity of over 200 trucks, which will somewhat ease it. But these are measures that are taken on a daily basis. In this way we also communicate with the Ministry of Transport, respectively their Transport Control Agency, the State Car Inspection, which is relevant and makes such buffer parkings before reaching the end point. They have an organization. It's not easy. It acts on an almost daily basis and solves such mini crises, for some not even enough time to communicate them to the public, but they are solved. Especially for the Danube Bridge not only for the Ruse region, but for all cross-border cooperation with the Republic of Romania, we are aware that we need at least two or three such bridges over the Danube. I think there's a project in Ruse's area that's almost ready. There is interest from the Romanian side. I cannot say at the moment whether they are private investors, or is the state, but we are having such talks, we are in coordination. Of course, it's a long-term project, a bridge can't be done in two weeks, but it does. In the long run, these are the decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u144	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Taffrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u145	Thank you, Prime Minister, for that answer. You are very right that obviously the current infrastructure that connects Bulgaria and Romania is not enough. Indeed, the construction of a second bridge near the present Danube bridge has long been necessary and this is supported by a large number of Russians. Just to draw attention, because we are talking about longer-term measures, this should go hand in hand with the construction of the highway Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo," it is already outside its capacity and the road Ruse "White," in particular, is one of the most dangerous in Bulgaria. This is largely due to the passage on it of heavy goods trucks. If a second bridge is built and this traffic increases, the situation on this road will actually get out of control. So I fully support your opinion that the second bridge at the Danube is imperative. Finally, the municipality of Ruse does what it can to ease the situation. However, it does need a permanent dialogue with the state in this regard. Russians need to know that the state is behind them, because they are the ones who are suffering from the current situation. And lastly, there are things that aren't about a lot of money. I would like to tell you that when a person by car crosses the Danube Bridge, he first finds that the Bulgarian part of the bridge is worse maintained than the Romanian one, and, secondly, when he comes down to Bulgarian territory, he comes down to a section with insufficient lighting and poor marking. These are things that can be resolved quite quickly and improve the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Tafrov. Do you have a wish for a duplicate, Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u147	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tafrov, because we continued to talk about Ruse and inform the Russian public, in the previous part of my reply I missed a moment, which is good for Russians to know if it is not publicly known enough that with the activities of Ruse Municipality, the Russian District Governor and with the support of the Ministry of Transport the opening of a new ferry connection Ruse "Girgevo," so the capacity there will be of the order of 200 cars per day. If this happens, there will be some relief in this heavy traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u148	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. We move on to a question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u149	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Galab Donev and is related to the acquisition of the right to a pension for internship and age under the conditions of art. 68 CSR. As known, according to art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 women currently, in 2021, retire at the age of 61 years and 8 months and 36 years of insurance service, and men at the age of 64 years and 4 months, respectively 39 years of insurance service. This age and internship over the years will grow in women up to 37 years of internship and 65 years of age, and in men aged 65 years and 40 years of internship. However, there is an al. 3 which enables those who do not have the necessary insurance service to retire during this year 66 years and 8 months and 15 years of actual insurance service. I stress the word "actual" because it is extremely important. This word for this category of Bulgarian citizens who do not have the necessary insurance experience excludes the service in the Bulgarian Army and maternity leave. Unlike this para. 3 however, in the conditions for acquiring the right to a pension under para. 1 and para. 2 for insurance internship and age, this internship is recognised as the so-called donated internship. In this case we are witnessing discrimination between the two categories of Bulgarian citizens because the right to acquire a pension for one group includes the service in the Bulgarian Army and in the other excludes the service in the Bulgarian Army and maternity leave. My question is whether you can proceed to change so that a large group of Bulgarian citizens who have been either unemployed for the past 30 years or worked in the gray sector or were abroad and have not had the opportunity to acquire this insurance service, can take advantage of the possibility of recognising this insurance service as a service in the Bulgarian Army and maternity leave and can retire with these 15 years and 66 years and 8 months of service.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Dr. Ademov! Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (iv) Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and para. 2, as well as para. 3 create different conditions for acquiring the right to a pension from the respective categories of Bulgarian citizens. Alinea 3 for which you are asking the question is the one that enables Bulgarian citizens to retire at the age of 66 years and 8 months in an acquired insurance service for 15 years, because this is the requirement under the law for this calendar year. This is a condition introduced by the law and of which Bulgarian citizens know and are informed that the minimum required insurance real internship is 15 years in order to be able to retire under this article. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the Social Security Code. Indeed, in the other two paragraphs of art. 68 admission and recognition of the time for the recruitment of military service and the time in the paid and unpaid leave of mothers to raise a child up to 3 years of age as an internship which is considered to be the acquisition of the right to pension. In para. 3 an exception to this rule is allowed and this internship is not respected. It is the right of the Members of the National Assembly to change para. 3 and respectively this internship or the time for the military service and the time for paid and unpaid leave to raise a child up to 3 years of age shall be included in the calculation of the years necessary for the acquisition of a right for such pension for insurance service and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 from CSR. At the moment, the assumption is that it takes 15 years for the person to have been actively provided to participate in social security in order to acquire the right to a pension, of course, and with the higher age assigned to that person and to that group of persons who do not have the required insurance service. So it is in the right of the Members of the National Assembly to decide whether they will accordingly relieve these conditions from 15 years of actual insurance service in order to respect the pension right of persons who do not have and who do not have an insurance service, but therefore require a higher age for acquiring that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Donev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Donev, thank you for your reply. I hope that, with the efforts of the experts from the National Insurance Institute, with the expertise of colleagues from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and with all MPs, we will do our best to resolve this issue, because it is a permanent one. People who cannot acquire these increased conditions for acquiring pension rights are already quite a group. So the exception that is made in para. 3 For the acquisition of a pension right at 15 years of retirement and 67 years of age, there must be no way in any way that it would be contrary to the conditions for the acquisition of a pension right for those who are from the first and second subparagraphs of art. 68. Why am I saying this? Because it's about the same column. These are retirement pensions for retirement and age. As long as they have a donated experience in one group of pensions, there's no way they donate to the other group. Again, these are retirement pensions and age, and they're in the same column. It is not a coincidence that they are within the same article for social security. I hope, again, that this issue will be resolved in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens who need and the opportunity to retire under para. 3 of art. 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, I would like to draw attention to this: in the reasons when the Social Security Code was adopted in 2000, and that in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 a real insurance service of 15 years is required and the three-year period for raising a child from the mother, the adoptive mother until the age of the child is three years old is not included, respectively, that a pension can be obtained for insurance service and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 without the person, especially with mothers, without the person involved in the provision at all. So we're going to recognize a 15-year internship that could lead to the right to internship and age. [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Yes, but there is a risk and it must be very precisely thought out and assessed with the corresponding, of course, financial parameters of the budget, whether and how much this can be done, how appropriate it is to make such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Donev. Let's move on to the questions from.. Straighten up BG! We're coming! Come on in, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u157	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Prime Minister Yanev. Mr. Yanev, today's current topic in the parliament is the upcoming elections - whether they should be held separately or two in one, but in fact the problem that excites Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian households is related to the crisis three in one, which will inevitably come in the autumn. First of all, raising people's bills for electricity, water and heating. For electricity by 6% so far, for heating by 16%, the water will rise by 30%, and after the increase in natural gas from yesterday the regulator warned that there will be an electric shock for households from January 1st. I mean, a serious increase in these prices. The second crisis, the second blow, is in inflation and the increase in prices of the basic goods for the household and food products. The oil has now become four leva, i.e. increased by more than 60%, close to 30% bread. That's how it is with all the basic food products. The third blow to households is related to their ugly unemployment.. being unemployed, because after passing the summer season, the active season and on the eve of another coat of wool it is clear that companies will fail. Therefore, my question to you is: do you think that inflation and appreciation of the three crises on Bulgarian households will be compensated during the average increase of 12.5%, which is due for pensions? Do you think that in the budget, given the situation in which you found him, there will be enough funds for companies for 60/40 and 80/20 for the months of August and September? Will there be sufficient opportunities for restructuring costs so that you can take the social impact on the most vulnerable groups?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Yanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, a very precise and timely question, I would say, because things seem extremely sharp and, unfortunately, interlinked in my opinion. Perhaps with the exception of unemployment, because it is currently difficult to predict whether the tide of seasonal workers will simply lead to a serious crisis in the labour market. I'm starting backwards because we're at a historical minimum right now on unemployment. I think the rates are at a historically low level of 4.9%, which speaks well about the vitality of the Bulgarian economy at the moment. At the same time, the main issue of prices, inflation and energy carriers... [[Heckling]] I'm saying it's interlinked because, basically, these things are due to the high prices of fuels and energy carriers worldwide. As the health crisis was global last year and the global economy slowed down, the economy is currently recovering globally. In this sense, the demand for the main raw materials, in this case fuels and energy carriers, is increasing globally. I'm sorry I don't have this statistic right now, but there is evidence that, on an annual basis, the demand for some of the fuels is increasing by 60 percent or more. So there is no way in an open economy such as the Bulgarian influences on the market do not reflect on the Bulgarian market. Accordingly, if we go through the main fuels, the main materials in the industry, including metals, just for an additional example, there is no way that these prices will not be reflected in the prices of household goods. They are interlinked, as you know, with regard at least to transport, logistics and individual elements which are on this basis of the production of a product. In this regard, what can we do? Several measures have already been taken. With one of the measures, one of the options on which you ask the specific question is whether those 12,5%, which are set for an increase in pensions, are sufficient. The answer is yes. At this stage they are sufficient because the calculations for the instantaneous state of the data base of the National Statistical Institute are that this inflation effect will be of the order of 3.3 plus the percentage by the end of the year. Or roughly speaking, if we could avoid fuel and energy prices, the likely inflation curve would be under equal conditions of less than 1%. Is the compensation imposed in respect of pensions over 12% sufficient? At this stage, yes, and we are not only talking here about pensions, but we are also talking about a number of other social payments, which are also envisaged and are laid down in the draft budget update, which is presented to your attention. So I hope, in carrying out this update and voting in this House at second reading, that we are able to meet the needs of citizens so that they do not feel very seriously what is coming in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u160	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u161	Dear Mr. Yanev, dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The caretaker government has done its job by bringing the three budget updates to parliament. Now I expect political parties in parliament to be responsible enough to make this update happen in time and in time. In fact, this is the first government since 2008 to 13 years, which, although officially, relies on the adjustment of pensions. This has not been done by any regular government, and in this direction you deserve admiration, and this is the first finance minister to show sincere care for pensioners by raising the pensions of all of them. As you will probably be responsible for drawing up the Bulgarian Budget Project for next year, I would like to draw your attention to the following facts. First of all, the expectations of older people were in addition to an update during the insurance internship to be made and an update based on insurance income, which would allow for more justice between people who had retired before and after 2008. Therefore, our proposal is to consider that you are the first courageous government to propose a next step in the recalculation of pensions in the next year on the basis of insurance income from 2020. In fact, BGN 664. is the average insurance income in 2008 and in 2020 is BGN 1111. That is to say, injustice is 100% for some of the elderly who were retired before 2008. In addition, I also insist that people expect you to think about other important payments, such as unemployment benefits. Yes, unemployment is now at a low level, but given the crisis, the situation will unfortunately change and these 12 levs that people receive are extremely insufficient. It would also be good to think about companies, because 60/40 is mainly for closed companies, but those with reduced turnover also need support and the whole of Europe gives them such support to companies. This also needs legislative solutions, but in brave behaviour regarding the state budget next year with care for the people you will really be the first caretaker government that will remain good in the social history of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u162	Or maybe the next official?! Here you are, Prime Minister, if you'd like a coat. No. All right, we'll continue with the second round of questions. There's such a people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Bulgarian government, Mr. Prime Minister! Over the past few days, the preservation of an aircraft has caused more economic damage to the Plovdiv region than if this plane had bombed. My question to the Prime Minister is this: what has been really done so far to help farmers in the Plovdiv region, where the preservation of the plane has led to a great hail and economic damage for this region? Because the Minister of Agriculture has gone and taken pictures and so what was really done so far? If I may, one additional question: couldn't this plane have diverted to another airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u164	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. You have the floor to answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's how the question could have been raised, but it wasn't! The decisions are made by competent people at the moment, and each according to his responsibilities, what happened and why, and since there are no victims, is a conversation. We're not talking about casualties here. We're talking material damage here. The assessment of whether an aircraft can be grounded, diverted or redirected to another airport is taken into specific conditions by specific specialists who, at this time of managing their work, probably do not take into account exactly what clouds there are, what call there are from those people who are struggling with hails, so whatever happened happened! The point is that the visit of the Minister of Agriculture to the injured vegetable producers and the residents of the injured villages was literally hours after this hailstorm happened. There have been hails before and there will be again. Right now we're going out with the assumption that almost if all the missiles were fired on this site, their damage would be different. Perhaps it is not so, but the question is: what is the state doing right now? At the moment, the state is doing everything it can. The Minister of Agriculture was on the ground, committed and explained to those people who expect compensation from the state, what is the procedure. Currently, the committees that report and assess the damage are working on the ground, and the mechanisms on which this compensation will be made are clear. The relevant material resources and opportunities are available by law in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, so that the compensatory mechanism is activated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u166	Thank you, Mr. Yanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u167	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u168	Let us finish, if I may, since Mr. Abrovsky has the floor for a line. I'll give you the floor for the procedure, as I've been warned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, you're absolutely right that what was, was, and what could have been done could have been done! From your words, I understand that a compensatory mechanism has been activated and, in fact, it consists of two parts. Its first part is to describe absolutely all the damage of absolutely all the involved.. hypothetically assume that this compensatory mechanism has already been made that the first step has been taken. At the Agriculture Commission the other day, the minister said there was no money at the Ministry of Agriculture's account. If my proposed between first and second reading 110 million are accidentally not in their entirety on the account of the Ministry of Agriculture, will you have anywhere to compensate these people because these people are compensated for a state aid for which the money, as far as I understand, has been spent on others by the previous government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u170	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u171	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u172	Let's get this procedure over with. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Specifically, if there is no money in one budget, we will find another budget. The point is that the state must demonstrate that it is ready to help where it can and where it should and within the framework of the law and rules. Here we will not enter into a discussion about how much this aid will be, to what extent, how to compensate the injured producers, but everything that is necessary and possible will be done within the framework of the law, including the update of the budget. This will help and there will be a better opportunity, but if there is no money, there will be another way to find money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u174	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u175	Colleagues, I propose that we extend the time to the vote at first reading of the NGO Bill because you know it is important, and besides listening to and doing blitzcontrol on ministers, it is important that we do not look stupid as the National Assembly. I will ask Mrs. Chairman, if she can, to give a sign to the colleagues who are walking around the parliament up and down, to return to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u176	I put this procedural proposal to the vote. There's no quorum. Name check. If you want, I can do it through the computerized voting system? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u177	I would like to propose, as the Rules allow you, one more question to hear and then to repeat the vote. I see more colleagues have come, so you decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u178	No, I'd better do it now. I'm checking through the computerized voting system. There are 140 MPs registered. There's a quorum. I am re-voting the proposed extension of the working plenary day until the end of the paragraph with the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on NSO. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. There's still no quorum. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] You weren't involved, but there are constitutional decisions, colleagues. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] There are no 121 votes, but it is not said that they should vote. You may attend and not take part in the vote as we have immediately carried out an inspection and the examination has established that there is a quorum in the Chamber. [[GERB-SDS lines, ICN applause]] Then we do the vote and the vote establishes.. 113 for, provided there was a quorum. [[(Noise and lines SDS-GERB:]] This is the Constitutional Court's decision. [[Applause from ICN, IBBNI.]] Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u179	Can we do this the way we're supposed to do it? It is a fact, Madam President, that you have the right to make this interpretation and, after all, the assessment is yours, but I still wanted to remind my colleagues from 1 was canceled for tomorrow, so whether today at 3:00 p.m., when there's probably not going to be enough MPs again, or tomorrow morning we'll pass this law, maybe it's not that big a deal. In order not to question the procedure, from now on, it makes sense to complete our control today, and tomorrow morning to continue with the NSO Act, which, again, to emphasise, and we support. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. This is not my interpretation, it is the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, which is still in effect. In order for there to be no dispute, I agree that we agreed to work when we have a real quorum of 121 votes, which is more than half of the real quorum. I agree with what Mr. Vigenin said to continue today until...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u181	Let's reschedule!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u182	We've been rethinking it and there's been a quorum. We've been revoting it, and not that there is no quorum, but simply that there are no votes involved. That's the truth in this room! Even if we vote on it several times when several parliamentary groups refuse to participate, the result will be the same. So, in order to comply with the rules exactly, and what we have accepted and argued, I think it's best that we continue until 2:00. There will be time to start the NTAC Act and continue it tomorrow morning. [[Noise and lines.]] We made a decision, Mr. Yordanov, but there was no quorum in the House.. 113 people voted, and before that there was 121, but then colleagues did not participate. According to the Rules of Procedure, we have accepted that the parliament is meeting when there are 121 people, taking a decision in 61 people, regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision, this is a fact. I am convinced that if this decision of ours goes to the Constitutional Court today, the Constitutional Court will confirm the same.... that there are simply non-participants in the Commission but have been present. However, since we do not have an interpretation of what it means to be present in the plenary, this is once again a question of implementing the Rules of Procedure. So I think the honest position here is to continue until 2:00 p.m., and I think that the blitzcontrol will end early and then continue with the item that is on the agenda, and if it doesn't end today, let's continue tomorrow morning. Yes, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u183	Madam President, you allow yourself within one minute to make two different decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u184	No, I didn't make two decisions, I explained what the practice was until now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u185	That's exactly what you're doing! Yes, there was a review, and then there was a majority that accepted the proposal, and you allow yourself to say what and when to be accepted. If you come home, go home! The same goes for BSP. If you're afraid of the NTAC Act, go out there and vote against it! Where are your men? Or is parliament just to come in early in the morning, give an interview to the journalists and go out?! [[Applause from ICN, IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u186	Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u187	Madam President, let me get this straight. In the first vote, we didn't really have a quorum, did we, that is, it didn't take place no matter what the result was, because there is no quorum, there is no such vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u188	It was there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u189	There on the dashboard, normally... If we accept your thesis, Mrs. Atanasova, you will have the right to say the word for it. If we accept your thesis that there is no quorum and 113 were written on the dashboard, it means that whatever it says after that vote, there is no quorum, there is no such logic. On the second, which was roll call, you made an inspection, it was found that we were over 140 people in the Chamber, after which there was a vote and certain colleagues, most probably on the left side of the Chamber, believed... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, in the middle of the room somewhere, they thought they shouldn't vote and be there. So this is the first vote. I therefore ask you to apply the Rules. I'm doing a bill re-voting. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. A counteroffer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u191	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a reverse proposal because we will go far beyond the Rules if, for the third time, we reschedule the proposal to examine this point. The fact is that there was no quorum in the first vote, but it was a vote, Mrs. Capon. There is therefore a re-vote and the re-vote also did not have a sufficient number of MPs to vote in favour of this proposal. I appeal to everyone: to leave the agenda as proposed by the Programme, and to start with the first point tomorrow, and now to complete the hearing of the members of the Council of Ministers. I think it's the right thing to do. There's obviously some agreement on this subject in the room...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u192	There's no such agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u193	...and agree with Parliament's President on this subject to proceed with the hearing. Here are the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers. There are important questions that we need to ask, and there are committees scheduled for today's afternoon, so I think it is pointless at all the revoting and it is abuse of the Rules and Rights of Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'm not going to put it to a re-vote because the motion has been voted twice. Just between the two votes, the quorum has been checked, so there is no reason to re-vote. The Constitutional text says that the National Assembly opens its meetings when more than half of the MPs are present, i.e. 121. During the verification of the quorum, the number of quorums was found to be necessary. The logic and decision of the Constitutional Court, which I said here, is that when you did an immediate inspection of the quorum before the vote and there is such quorum, then when there are votes, even if there are fewer persons than 121, it is assumed that there were 121 people in the Chamber, but they simply were not involved in the vote. They were present but did not participate in the vote, as this is the right of the MP. In this case, what we've been going through so far was exactly what we did to check the quorum, there was a quorum, then we did a re-vote, there were 113 involved, I think they were MPs. They voted for, that is, the other MPs present in the House, but they simply did not participate in the vote. So if I really follow the practice of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional text, the sitting should continue when it adopts an extension of working time and the point. The other is a literal interpretation of the provision, which I think is wrong. In the Rules of Procedure, you know, the notion of what the present person means, i.e. the present person is a person who is present in the Chamber and we now need to apply constitutional practice here. Therefore, in my opinion, the working day should be extended, as it was adopted just now, by 113 votes for the work day. [[Applause from IHN. A line from the MP Desislava Atanasova.]] You have the opportunity, Mrs. Atanasova, to attack the relevant decisions before the Constitutional Court. We'll continue the hearing with a question...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u195	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u196	Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u197	It's discrimination!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u198	Thank you, Madam President. I think that we will not benefit from our right to declare the unconstitutionality of this decision to the National Assembly because it is pointless, Madam President, but my procedure is in the manner in which it is directed towards you. In the last three months, when you are chairing both the 45th and the 46th National Assembly, Parliamentary practice has changed sharply with regard to your interpretation of both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. The rules have been changed twice precisely because in different situations you interpret the application of both the Rules and the Constitution in a different way. Let me remind you that on that night, when you adopted the Election Code, a fellow Member from the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" Mr. Yordan Tsonev brought you out of an awkward situation where none of the chairmen wanted to take your place with a view to voting, revoting, third vote and so on. Then you were explaining the exact opposite of the one you're explaining now. I think it will be useful that Parliament will soon be dissolved. I hope that there will be time, including the President of Parliament, to finally get acquainted with both parliamentary practice and constitutional practice. [[crowd cheering and cheering from IHN: "Eee! "]] , and with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Colleagues, it is absolutely not serious every week, every week according to how it is convenient for you to hold the meetings of both the committees and the National Assembly, to interpret the rules as you wish. Absolutely, absolutely non-serious attitude! Please, I think you should see the Chamber in which it is in, there are enough people who are willing to speak from our parliamentary group, if the Law on the National Assembly comes up. In the course of today it is pointless to examine this law because there are meetings, I repeat, of the committees, today is the last time for proposals for the budget of state social security and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, colleagues are preparing, and tomorrow there will be plenty of time, Parliament will work another week, so whatever you decide you will have the opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Since it was in the manner of conduct, I would agree with you, if there was no inspection of the quorum, then, yes. Then, if there was no quorum, it is clear that those registered since morning cannot serve as a quorum check and are used for votes. However, in relation to the case when we had an inspection of the quorum immediately prior to the vote, the quorum was established, immediately thereafter this vote was held, and then it was established how many of those present voted. That's what the Constitution says, that's what the Rules of Procedure said. Mr. Zarkov was the first person to ask for Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u200	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Madam President, my first word is to you. When you have made a decision and announced it, you take, announce and proceed with the corresponding responsibility for your words. But more importantly, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President, do not think that the people who are watching us do not understand what is going on. It does not matter whether this bill will be adopted today in the afternoon or tomorrow morning, to accept it today in the afternoon. The point is that the proliferation of adopted laws at first reading does not guarantee their adoption at second reading and there is no need to gain weight in this way. Under the NTAC Act, you will meet wide support. However, the truth is that there is much work on it, as it is not clear at all. And the fact that we couldn't solve the big problems of the judiciary, including the state's attorney's status, the way his acts are being controlled, will not be clouded by the fact that you're getting him out of the NSA's service car, which he doesn't use anyway. The fact that we adopted three laws at first reading for the Bureau of Defense does not mean that this will be done fully and qualitatively, because the three laws that we unanimously adopted yesterday actually contain different concepts. The law on the judiciary is also waiting for the fact that we quickly adopted them at the Legal Committee today at first reading does not mean that the work on them is not serious enough. We must act in a timely and qualitative manner. So, please, let's not waste the little time that remains in procedural grips, lying and throwing blame on why work is not done, but try to continue with the hearing, to take the NSO Law, or whoever you decide in our remaining few days to accept one to the end is better than tens of first readings and finally nothing. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u201	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Madam President, with the deep respect we have for you and the high tribune, I cannot agree with your second interpretation. The first interpretation was true, but the moment Mr. Toshko Yordanov came out, you had a fleeting reinterpretation of the case and you decided to declare it exactly the opposite opinion. Everyone here on the first day we read statements that we are returning parliamentaryism. The appearance of Mr. Toshko Yordanov on this platform and the conversion of your interpretation of insight, which you then said, became very similar to me when Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov came out on this platform and then the President of the National Assembly at 180 or 360 degrees immediately turned his opinion, even to 380. So we cannot bring Parliamentaryism back, Madam President, when Mr. Toshko Tsvetanov goes out on this stand, and you choose the role of which President of the National Assembly you want. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u203	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Once again, I have mentioned to you from the very beginning the decision of the Constitutional Court on the practice and what it means to be present. Here it really makes no sense to check the quorum that we did, then to vote. If it is assumed that the verification of the quorum is pointless and has not taken place, then I can really agree that there is no 50 plus one, but when we did and immediately afterwards we took a vote and settled 113 for, I cannot agree that there is no quorum in this House and that the decision is not supported by 50 plus one of those present. Unfortunately, this is the Constitution and this is the Rules, this is constitutional practice. We continue with the questions from GERB-SDS to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u204	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u205	Here you are, Mr. Glauchev, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u206	Honourable President, honourable Members, Mr. Service Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister! First of all, I have never changed my mind when standing in the stands of Tsvetan Tsvetanov, and I was chairman. [[Radio, lines.]] You can check it out, but this isn't the case now. I feel uncomfortable that here is the service government that you very much like.. they stand here and listen to some senseless procedures. It's a way of keeping it, but it's not much in the way of keeping it. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u207	It's not even the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u208	But you could have stopped this thing if you didn't change your mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u209	I didn't change my mind, Mr. Glauchev, I explained what the two are.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u210	At least twice you've changed your mind, I'm not saying after speaking to whom, but have some respect, have blitz-control, let's finish the blitz-control, then there are committees. Indeed, I call on you, there are committees, do you want to adopt an update of the budget, or do you not want? Bills have to be passed. On Tuesday, there is an extraordinary meeting on these bills. It's really pointless what you want right now to continue with NSO, and not tomorrow morning, what will that change? Can you tell me what will change whether the NTAC Act is now adopted or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u211	Mr. Glauchev, thank you. It has nothing to do with the way you kept what you came out to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u212	The way to conduct is that you see 113 votes, which is obvious that there is no quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u213	How can it be obvious?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u214	It is absolutely obvious that the quorum is 121, it is obvious!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u215	Mr. Glauchev, what was the point of checking the quorum a second before that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u216	It doesn't make any sense, since you're establishing...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u217	Then what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u218	...to vote that there is no quorum. What's the point?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u219	You've registered, you've participated in a quorum check that you're here, and suddenly you don't participate in the vote and you don't vote. Are you here, or aren't you actually here? [[Laughter, excitement, lines.]] If you're right, that's what I'm telling you, it's constitutional practice. This is the constitutional practice that you are registered, you are here, but you simply do not want to participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u220	[[GERB-SDS, from place]] : No, I'm not registered to the quorum check.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u221	Okay, so you didn't register, so you're not attending the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u222	Let me get this straight. I'm sorry. I'm not registered to a quorum check either, so I'm not here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u223	You don't even know if you're registered or not...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u224	...so I'm not here in this situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u225	You don't even remember if you checked in?! Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u226	Dear Madam President, as we are talking about the manner of conduct, please do not allow people to speak. [[laughs, excitement]] who are not present in the Chamber and to speak from the stands, and not in the manner of conduct. I agree as soon as Mr. Glauchev stopped changing his mind on Mr. Tsvetanov's speeches, then Mr. Borisov came and replaced him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u227	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Mr. Abrovsky, come in. Are you in the same way as I am?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u228	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. I just want to pay attention, honourable Members, many of you have turned your parliamentary office into a way of working and you have forgotten what it is to work in real terms. I want to tell you that if any of you work for a private person in the way you are acting right now, you will be fired by 200.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u229	Are there others in the manner of conduct? Here you go, Mr. Manev. [[(Reply, applause, screams:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u230	In the manner of conduct, Madam President. I don't know why my colleagues are so resentful that I'm going out on the stand, or do they enjoy it?! I would like to ask you something quite formal: was the previous speech in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u231	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u232	One moment, I've taken the floor in the manner of conduct, when I'm done, you'll answer me. And my question is this: you allow someone to speak without speaking on the subject, without speaking in the manner of conduct, without following the rules, another does not. You allow someone to say what a quorum is, another to say what is not a quorum. You allow a colleague to announce that someone had worked here, and others had it for work. And to be quite honest, my colleague with the red tie is probably quoting a supervisor just now who told you that you turned him around. Take measures, you are the President of the National Assembly and you must be respected, you must be respected! From there on out of parliament, they can do whatever exercise they want, whose address they want, not here. That is why I am telling you that this procedure must be followed in the manner of conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u233	Thank you, Mr. Manev. [[The National Representative Plamen Abrovski is going to the stands.]] Mr. Abrovsky, you don't have...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u234	I'm entitled to a personal explanation...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u235	It didn't affect you personally and by name, please. Mr. Abrovsky, please. Are there any other people in the way of conduct? I won't. We continue with the second question by GERB-SDS. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Minister! Madam President, you have convinced yourself that it is very difficult to put order into chaos when a part of the group in this Chamber sees the National Assembly as a show. Dear Prime Minister, my question is to you. In this week we have seen extremely serious signals on all national televisions about health problems. Today we learned that there is no remdesivir in Targovishte, two days ago we realized that there is no remdesivir in Blagoevgrad region. There is also a serious problem with the supply of oxygen to the medical facilities, and according to suppliers one of the oxygen plants is in repair and oxygen cannot be imported from Romania, as there is also an oxygen plant that is also in repair. Also serious problems test the medics who are on the first line as they do not receive 1000 BGN, which are for the first line. Mr. Prime Minister, as a military man, you know much better than I do that if we want an army to win the battles, it must be fed, that is, the thousand levs must be provided. Currently, the army, which is on the front line, is without 1000 BGN, with the humiliating methodology that the Ministry of Health adopted. There's not enough weapons, I mean remedesvir and oxygen. How do you plan to win this war in front of the fourth battle to come with a Kovid? And what does the Bulgarian government do to secure the country's needs for oxygen, remdesivir and restore the methodology for the thousand leva? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u237	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u238	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Angelov! I'm glad you made the analogy with battle, army, uniforms and war. There are many wars, but in this case we are talking about health and there the main soldiers wear another type of uniform and the people who devote themselves to this noble profession take another type of oath. However, the Hippocratic oath, like the oath of a soldier or a policeman, implies sacrifice. These people are aware from the first day, on the first line thanks from all Bulgarians, they are really ready for sacrifice. In this sense, talking about their provision, both with drugs, with oxygen and with monetary rewards, is important, but is not paramount. Let's start with the meds. You are a doctor and you know very well that the medicine you are quoting is used in strictly defined therapy at a certain time, then it is no longer effective and from this point of view it is important to have it available so that it can usually be used at the beginning of the disease. At the end of August, which was a few days ago, before that we found, of course, that the supplies of this drug were running out and that is why a decision was made, the funds were provided. very soon this drug will be available everywhere, it is possible that it is currently temporarily absent from certain hospitals, but very soon it will be there. Of course, these are things that are being resolved on the move and literally today, as we are having this conversation, the hospital in question that you are quoting may already have some quantities. The issue of oxygen is similar. We are aware that there are difficulties, but at the same time it is being made possible to secure and overcome these difficulties. Regarding the money for the medics on line one. We have commented on it several times, I do not want to go back into methodologies, into the philosophy that is at stake, how the money is calculated for whom and how they reach and to what extent this is related to the update of the budget and the update of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u239	Thank you. For a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u240	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Prime Minister! I am very unpleasantly surprised by what you said that you rely on the sacrifice of Bulgarian medics. During the forward waves, we lost many of our colleagues. Regarding the fact that you are doing everything you need to do remains only in words from the parliamentary platform, because many days have been missed in which everything can be done. And I'll tell you why? During the previous hairwaves, it was known that the weekly consumption of remdesivir was between 7 and 8 thousand vials per week. There were less than 7,000 vials in Boul Bio. When the peak began clearly and the state did absolutely nothing to provide additional supplies with a remedivir outside the regular 6,000 vials per month. Secondly, in terms of oxygen. Absolutely nothing the Bulgarian state has done to secure the needs with oxygen, because the only possible solution was for the Minister of Health to ban the export of oxygen, which he did not do with his order for the export of medicines. Regarding the thousand leva for the first line. Since yesterday there is a letter of the Bulgarian Medical Association, with which they insist, the humiliating methodology of Stoycho Katsarov to be canceled and the methodology for 1000 levs will be returned. on the first line and this has absolutely nothing to do with the update of the budget. This money is paid by the National Health Insurance Fund, which by the six-month period is 127 million. lv. an excess, which means that you do not only think about the Bulgarian medics to give them 1000 BGN, but continue to humiliate them by 200, 100 and make them walk with chronometers at work. Prime Minister, this is a serious battle, and I'm sorry to say it, but I'll say it to you. Instead of the Minister of Health who had gone to Albena to rest, when you said he had serious reasons to be absent, he was at sea in Albena, he could have made adequate decisions to save at least one Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u241	Thank you. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, when you speak with numbers, since you are in the profession, you should be more sure of what you say, because I have information that yes, the consumption on a monthly basis was of the order of 6,000 doses. Daily consumption is currently in the order of 1000 doses. I ask myself, if you really haven't taken these measures, really at Boul Bios a month ago there were only 7,000 doses, and at the moment are used much more, either of us is confused in mathematics, don't know who? That's my data. In terms of money, I think we've commented on it, we're getting into some details. You're quoting a letter from the Bulgarian Medical Association, the same union that was involved in the collective decision when changing the methodology, so... [[Reply by MP Kostadin Angelov.]] Is it a new alliance then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u243	Thank you. We are moving on to a question from BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Dr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u244	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Before I place my card, let me personally apologize for this storm of emotions that you had to experience here quite undeservedly, because this is how we compromise the first blitzcontrol to which the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister are present and who has been denied so much time by the majority of the previous government. And now specifically to the question. It is clear that at the moment the nation is most excited about the problems of the Kovid crisis, as well as the migrant crisis. My question as a specialist is to you, Mr. Prime Minister, and he is oriented towards the Kovid crisis. I've been familiar with the measures Dr. Katsarov proposed hours ago. I do not want to comment that they exclude, for some reason, whole areas of economic and social life, and places where people can actually gather and the infection spread according to what these anti-epidemic measures are aimed at. But what also impresses is that the measures that gradually go one after another to the Ministry of Health, whether it be or not, are starting to repeat the same measures that have taken the previous governance towards the crisis and which have largely proved ineffective, as all infectious specialists share for a whole year and a half that this way the infection cannot be stopped. My question to you is: how do you evaluate as prime minister the measures that have been taken after what I have told you? And I have a second part of the question about the 200 million debt issued. Given that the government has said that there has been an extraordinary improvement in revenue and that the government itself has options, what was the cause of the crisis, the issue of this 200 million debt? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u245	Thank you. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, when we talk about the management of the Kovid crisis, many questions arise that each of us, whether from the position he is taking or purely human, find it difficult to answer based on experience, observations and impressions, because we are not all specialists. With regard to the measures taken by the Ministry of Health and announced by the Minister. They are based on opinion and discussion in a broad expert council where there are predominantly epidemiologists, i.e. people who are familiar, first, theoretically, and, secondly, have sufficiently extensive experience and monitor the development of the epidemic for more than a year. Yes, the biggest question is: what has been the result of the measures applied so far, what could be repeated as this type of behaviour, and what could be different? In this case, it is different, including at the moment, that there is a development of the information it has on the virus, including at regional level, and to a large extent these measures are also applied at regional level. In the further development of the situation, of course, other measures will be imposed, again on the same algorithm, with the maximum comment and take the opinion of this type of specialists who feel the best, comfortable, in terms of management of the epidemic. Regarding the loan you're talking about. I am not exactly sure whether it is a loan issued or whether a mechanism has been proposed to compensate for certain costs associated with part of infrastructure projects which have not been financed or their contracts do not allow for additional funding. So let me get this straight. If we have to invite the finance minister to answer the question, but to be sure what it is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u247	Thank you. For a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u248	Thank you, Madam President. It is indeed very difficult for us to exchange views on this matter within the defined minutes of Parliament, but I am allowing myself to share with you, trying to prevent you from repeating the wrong decisions. First, it happens, and this is the great negative response in the nation that certain types of activities in the nation, such as restaurant, hotel business and associated many areas of life, remain in practice seriously affected. You have already heard the messages of 48 hours on national media that they are willing to protest. I didn't tell you what other areas of life are, but I can tell you who they are. These are the food chains, these are the malls, there are huge numbers of people there, not to mention industrial sites, where there are huge numbers of people and no measures! I don't know if anyone can guess. In general, I would like to remind you that the countries that cut off their air ties to the world were most severely affected by this infection. It's a very complicated question. But our request is not to repeat such a type of error, so as not to enter into the same trap of acute negativity of public opinion and debalance to the detriment of one group or another working. I will tell you at the end of my reply to you that when I visited many times as the leader of our party, during the election campaign, Blagoevgrad region and met with many businessmen, this question that they asked me, Mr. Prime Minister, was people already seeing meaning in the inclusion in the tourism business, because with these continuous abuses on it, they see no perspective in the development, and it is a major business, big business in Bulgaria. In this sense, I have been asked the question to you, in this sense this note that I have taken the liberty of making. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u249	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's start with discrimination. There is no discrimination of business. I agree that the tourism business is serious, structurally determining the revenues to the budget and at the same time is the employer of many people in Bulgaria. It is important, so the measures we take by the government are the same for all kinds of businesses. There is no discrimination, including in relation to the tourist business. I do know that in the last few hours, in the last few days and in the last few months, I would say that we have carried away many voice calls and criticisms from this business, as they initially feared that the season would be weak. At the moment they are more relaxed, had a relatively good season, much better than last year, of course, and almost equal to 2019, except for the foreign segment where we have a reduction. So in terms of business, the measures are what they are. You're absolutely right that the only problem is the clustering. And in fact, what we hear as criticism from this particular business is that the first measures will affect it in the segment permission of people in a indoor room, what percentage to be, I think it was about 30% of the capacity, and of course, where it is the cluster of such nightclubs, called discotheques. So these are the topics that need to be taken into account, but in fact they are also the most important ones, because you are absolutely right that the transmission of the virus is happening exactly in this type of crowding of people and mass events. So yes, we agree. There will be people who will protest, but life continues and the measures that are envisaged for compensation, I hope they will be able to compensate them so that they continue to work and therefore be able to assist these employed people who are with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u251	Thank you. A question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u252	Mr. Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have often talked about crises in recent weeks. First of all, as if this is the most exciting Bulgarian society, are the health crisis related to the pandemic, the economic crisis, which is increasingly felt. But I would like to ask one question relating to another crisis, which is from a longer one, which will deepen more seriously and for which cures and vaccines rather will not, or if there is, be diverse as actions by all governments. I'm talking about the climate crisis. Bulgaria is part of the global world as both part of the UN and as part of the European Union has realised the existence of this crisis. In some countries, inter alia, a state of emergency has been declared related to this crisis, such as Britain, the United Kingdom. In this regard, Bulgaria as part of these mechanisms should also fulfil the ambitious objectives of the European Union relating to decarbonisation by 2030, as well as that by 2050. The European Union and the European Commission in the new composition adopted for 2030 these targets should be linked to 55% reduction of emissions, which even some groups criticise as insufficiently ambitious, but nevertheless, given the current situation, they seem serious. In this regard, Bulgaria had to draw up a long-term decarbonisation strategy by 2050, as the final version of this project, prepared by a sub-contractor, ready by March 2020, but not yet announced, has not been announced and there is no public discussion. It is part of the Integrated National Plan and is connected, notice, with the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability, with the Plan for a Fair Transition, so that we can, if we do not have a drawn path for an energy transition, be at risk of getting some of this funding. So my question, Mr. Yanev, is related to this: what is the progress, what are the plans and what are the tools for interagency dialogue and progress which you, within your brief, but, I would say, a good caretaker government, perform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u253	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u254	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the issue is complex and deserves particular attention, because things are related and the actions we take in our daily lives sometimes have a reflection in a very long period in perspective. This is precisely the type of argument and problem we are talking about if we assume that in general the name can be called a climate crisis or climate change. A few aspects. First of all, in terms of environmental protection. You know that with previous decisions from years ago the Bulgarian environment has probably the highest share of the environmental protection and the announcement of the protected territories in Bulgaria have the highest percentage in the European Union about 34% plus of the national territory is part of the Natura, which was taken a long time ago. In fact, at the moment when it comes to building infrastructure projects or any other projects developing, we usually begin to suffer for a rather serious environmental authorisation process. That's one thing. On the other hand, including in recent days, we have seen high fuel prices, high energy prices, high electricity prices. We ask ourselves: where is our strategy for energy development? Obviously, we don't have it. The caretaker government, in our best intentions, could not handle such a task in three months, moreover, it is not a task for three months. There must be broad support, including parliamentary, because we are talking about decisions that are being taken in the future perhaps decades and their impact will have an even longer period in the future. Here are the open questions: does Bulgaria want or does it not want to build a new nuclear plant? Does Bulgaria, or does it not want to refurbish existing primary-fuel thermal plants? How far can these changes be based on potential fuel, natural gas, which, according to the latest requirements of the European Commission and the rules on the Green Deal and the green economy, is now being conducted as a transitional fuel? Does it want or does it not want Bulgaria to develop the sector? Based on what sources, based on what possibilities? These are serious problems that need to find a solution as soon as possible. Unfortunately, and the parliamentary term seems not particularly long, as well as the mandate of the caretaker government that I am in charge of. So we leave these questions open to those people who will work on them after us. It also relates to the levels of decarbonisation because Bulgaria has joined these levels of 55%, but relevant national actions have not followed. One of the issues we have at the moment, including with the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, is reformulation, reformation of energy in the Maritsa East, in the Marishka Basin and searching for an opportunity to replace fuel. At the same time, we are aware of the social impact and we are aware that if Bulgaria had renegotiated accordingly the extension of the deadline, a derogation of the necessary for these power plants, we might have more time to deal with the challenge. At the moment, what we have staked in the Recovery and Development Plan is gradually refurbishing these plants and creating an opportunity to preserve much of the jobs, including mining, through additional investments in this region that can use coal, i.e. to preserve mining production, but to use coal as raw material in the chemical industry. New capacities that could be built there. It's ambitious, there's no clarity exactly how this could happen. Of course, there is already an inquiry and interest from foreign investors, from which we still expect letters of intent. When this information appears, you will be informed in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u255	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u256	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I understand that you, Mr. Yanev, cannot give a very clear and concrete answer to this question, because it is very complex, but mostly because a number of governments, including parliaments, have buried their head in the sand or to say it in another way in coal without realizing the realities. They didn't draw a path and refuse to accept what was happening. This can easily be presented with this parable about the head of the ostrich buried in the sand. In fact, in Bulgaria, 72% of the emissions come from energy, which is fossil fuels, more than three quarters of them from coal. More than 50% of the CO2 emissions in Bulgaria come because of coal. This condemns Bulgaria to economic poverty and to a serious shocking moment of closure of these plants if real actions related to the fair transition have not been taken. This will limit Bulgaria from the possibility of access to European financial instruments. One of the few things you can do is to make this long-term strategy public and put it out for public discussion. She's been ready for a long time. I don't know why the Ministry of Energy is continuing in all its configurations, I would say that in the current one, they would not want to open this topic. Yeah, she's sensitive, but she won't decide if we bury our head in the sand. The slogan of the European plan for a fair transition is: "No one should be abandoned." "With the policy that leads Bulgaria, we risk this in the Marishka pool and in Pernik to become just as it happened in Bobov Dol. If any of you have been to Bobov Dol lately, he'll know what I'm talking about. There was shock-closed mining, mines, coal mining. There the city, apart from a mine landscape, is also depopulated, and without any economic perspective for the region. This will repeat in other places if we really do not draw a path when we are doing this transformation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u257	Thank you, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u258	As for the potential, it's huge, huge. And it's not just connected to the power plants, much less nuclear power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u259	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat. He doesn't have an ass. Let's move on to the next question. There is a question from the group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u260	Time is up, 2:00 p.m. is not extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u261	Time's not extended, we're out of time, so we'll close the meeting. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u262	We've extended the time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u263	Is the time extended? Sorry, I was just missing. [[To the operators of the voting system.]] The time is extended, but it's not for blitzcontrol, and it's exactly two hours. So, ministers, thank you for your participation. We continue with the next item on the agenda. Please check the quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u264	Why is that necessary? You don't have to!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u265	Okay. The next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE NATIONAL FOOD SERVICES. We've got two bills coming in. Mr. Stoyanov, you have the floor for the first report of the Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u266	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act No 46-154-01-6, submitted by Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs on 21 July 2021, At a meeting held on 26 August 2021, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act, No 46-154-01-6, submitted by Nikolay Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs on 21 July 2021. The meeting was attended by Brigadier General Emil Tonev, Head of the National Security Service. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Nikolai Hadjigenov. The draft proposed that specialized transport in peace time should not be provided to the members of the Constitutional Court, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and the Mayor of the capital of the National Security Service, as well as to the persons holding the positions of the National Assembly. As regards the provision of all types of security to the Attorney General, it is proposed that his personal security be provided only if proven necessary. It is also proposed that the President, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister during their term of office be able to give up personal security, except in cases of proven necessity and real threat. The bill also provides for a change in the composition of the Commission under art. 23 of the National Security Service Act, proposing that it be composed of a Chairman.. The Head of the National Security Service, and members: the Minister of Interior and the Chairman of the State Agency.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In their motives, importers show that the provision of specialized transport in peacetime to persons occupying and occupying senior public positions is unfounded and should be removed as such. With the change in the composition of the Committee on Art. 23 of the National Security Service Act will achieve relief of the decision-making procedure to determine the need for specialized security and transport of high-level officials, such as the State Agency of National Security and the Ministry of Interior will be exempted from the burden of making decisions outside their field of activity. The bill does not require additional funds and does not concern European Union law. The implementation of the Bill is expected to reduce the financial costs of the Office. Written opinions have been received from the National Security Service, the Ministry of Interior and the National Security Agency. Opinion on the bill expressed Brigadier General Emil Tonev "Head of the National Security Service." In the debates the MPs discussed issues concerning the legislative proposals made by the importers of the Draft and those presented by the National Security Service. They joined in their opinions on the need to sign in the Law on the National Security Service for a legal definition of the concepts of a sensitive security environment and an endangered environment, which will create the necessary clarity and transparency in the criteria for the protection of persons and for the definition of the species, scope and duration. After the discussion, the Commission with 6 votes for the National Security Service, without the opposition and 1 abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the National Security Service Act, No 46-154-01-6, submitted by Nikolay Hadjigenov and a group of MPs on 21 July 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u267	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Who will present the Report on the Second Bill? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u268	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act, No 46-154-01-37, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 20 August 2021. At a meeting held on 26 August 2021, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act, No 46-154-01-37, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 20 August 2021. The meeting was attended by Brigadier General Emil Tonev, Head of the National Security Service. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Iva Miteva. The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the National Security Service Act proposes narrowing the circle of protected persons under the Law, as well as the types of security provided to them. The bill provides specialized transport to the Prosecutor General, such as under a complicated security environment or a specific threat and under a reasoned decision of the Commission under art. 23 of the Law also has the opportunity to provide other types of security. It is proposed by the circle of persons to whom specialized transport is provided in peacetime, to drop the members of the Council of Ministers, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and the Mayor of the capital, as only under a complicated security environment or a specific threat under a reasoned decision of the Commission under art. 23 to provide security to the members of the Council of Ministers. With regard to the persons who held the office of President of the Republic, President of the National Assembly or Prime Minister, it is proposed that the provision of specialized transport be withdrawn for the unduely long period of time after their release from office up to 4 years and without limitation for those who were presidents. The provision of security up to 6 months after the dismissal of those persons, but only in the event of a complicated security environment or a specific threat, and by a reasoned decision of the Committee on Art. 23 of the Law is a sufficient period that corresponds to the logic of the law. Security is also proposed in the event of a specific threat and the members of the President's families, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister, as well as other persons related to national security, the abuse against them would undermine, weaken or create difficulties in power in the republic. It is proposed that the transport provision of the activities of the administration of the President of the Republic be abolished. In order to achieve greater accountability of the activity of the service, it is proposed that the Head of the National Security Service should report to the relevant Standing Committee of the National Assembly the work of the Commission under art. 23 of the Law. It is also envisaged that the Commission's decisions assessing the existence of a complicated security environment or a specific threat and providing additional types of protection for the persons referred to in the law be motivated and adopted unanimously. Another group of changes proposed by the Bill achieves compliance with the provisions of the National Security Service Act with the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The respective amendments to the Law on certain rights of persons who were presidents of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Ministry of Interior are also proposed. The bill does not require additional funds and does not concern European Union law. The implementation of the Bill is expected to reduce the financial costs of the service. Written opinions have been received from the National Security Service, the State Agency "National Security" and the Ministry of Interior. Opinion on the bill expressed Brigadier General Emil Tonev "Head of the National Security Service." In their debates, the MPs said that legislative changes and their adoption would achieve an appropriate limitation of the circle of protected persons, which would not result in a reduction of the budget resources of the service and does not provide for structural changes to it. In this way, the workload in the work of the employees will also be alleviated, as well as will contribute to greater efficiency in the tasks they carry out. After the discussion, the Commission with 6 votes for the National Security Service, without the opposition and 1 abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the National Security Service Act, No 46-154-01-37, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on August 20, 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u269	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. He has the floor for the importer to propose the first bill. Mr. Hadjigenov, come in. [[Heckling]] The other importer yes. There is no opinion of the other committees. [[Heckling]] No, you won't. There is no report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, and there is no report from the Legal Committee either.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The point of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act is that the power is too much and carries the guards as a cloak, as a crown with which they show the marks of power. There is no objective need for a security guard of this kind, with that number of faces. I would like to draw attention to the Members of the National Assembly that the ride of certain officials to elective positions with cars of NSO is a type of security guard of the type of mayor of Sofia Municipality. Rhetorical question: what does the mayor of Sofia Municipality need when there is no danger or need whatsoever? Is this a transport company? Over the years, they've been a lot of things: dogwalkers, food shoppers, whatever else you can think of, but not the National Security Service as it should be. This is something that needs to be changed, that is, we need to take the power of these attributes, which are not an instrument for exercising power, but an ornament. They create an aura of importance, such as the four-year ride after coming down from power, as does the great geographical finder in the previous parliaments. She rides until the other day on a car, something more about her participation in the election campaign, is not just a car ride by the National Security Service, with full security, due to a former speaker of parliament. The same is true of the great dictator or of the pathetic dictator Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u271	Mr. Hadjigenov, please avoid qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u272	Please excuse me, Mrs. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u273	You're excused.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u274	Thank you. I appreciate it. I must draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's meeting was secret, the Commission was so kind as to get acquainted with the signals...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u275	It wasn't classified when it was a bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u276	...who justify the security of the pathetic dictator. I apologize, Mrs. Chairman. [[Noise and lines.]] And the signals are really pathetic. They're not even funny. That is, there is no objective reason, surrounded by multiple carts, which pay the taxpayers, notice, because there is no government money, there is taxpayers' money, that is, the money that comes out of the pocket not only of the MPs, that is the money that comes out of the pocket of every Bulgarian citizen, and that is absurd and unacceptable, and that is specific to every dictatorship. That's what Todor Zhivkov did, that's what socialism did, that's what it is now. Each of the few dictators who are around the world is guarded by a private army on unserious signals where they imitate democracy as in our country. Not for nothing yesterday I took the liberty to put on my personal page another signal threatening me personally. I receive dozens of them a day, as some of GERB voters are quite active in this regard. So, if we leave it to the current head of the National Security Service, I should probably have a private tank. After all, the signal is not serious. He's funny.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u277	You have a slingshot.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u278	What we're leaving behind is in the face of a real danger that the Attorney General and the people in need of security will be protected. And we take this artificial halo created to replace the real need. This halo, which creates the illusion of power, of invincibility and infallibility. That's the point of my bill. Thank you, Mrs. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u279	Thank you. The importer of the second bill has the floor to present it. Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u280	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to introduce him first as an importer, and if my time is up, I might ask to start taking account of group time so I don't go out again. Perhaps by this law I should also declare private interest, as I am one of the protected persons also under this law, and perhaps this provokes me and I should start reading the Law carefully and thinking on this subject. My meetings with the NSO showed me that this is a really working institution, that there are really very prepared people working in it, very decent people. The question is, however, how far do the guarded persons go and whether optimization of the work of this service is necessary? Looking carefully at the categories of individuals, we came up with the opinion that we should really be carefully reviewed again. What we propose with the other importers is, first of all, that all types of security remain the so-called first three in the country: President of the National Assembly, President and Prime Minister plus Vice President of the Republic. From this category, which has been guarded so far, we propose that the Attorney General be removed, as he was in the category protected on equal terms by 2015 with the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. That is why our proposal is for him to find his place again among these guarded persons and to be placed in the same regime as those guarded persons. Regarding the first three, I would also like to say something else. I believe, even though this is not provided for in the Law, perhaps a review should be considered very carefully on the methodology by which these persons are guarded, and a review should be carried out at all when they do not fulfil their duties, then, when they are outside their functions, is this enhanced security that is currently necessary? I don't want to sound populist, and I won't say I'm going to give up a declaration while I'm in office with this security, because I think there could be a threat to both the president and the prime minister, and in order to be honest with each other, I think that everyone has to comply with the law as it is and not putting one of the other three in an awkward position. It is clear that we cannot be without security, it is clear that we cannot move freely on the streets without security, all the other is photos and populism. If the Law provides for an opportunity to refuse with declarations or to limit this kind of security, yes, it is a matter of another conversation and indeed we can take appropriate action. With regard to the second category of persons provided for in the Law, this is the so-called specialized transport, which is also a type of security. There we propose to remain with specialized transport only the members of the Constitutional Court and the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General. From this category we propose to drop the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, as well as the members of the Council of Ministers and the Mayor of Sofia Municipality. With regard to these persons, we believe that there is sufficient resources in the relevant departments and they can be taken over by these departments, and I think here that very carefully between the first and second reading of the Bill, an opportunity should also be considered when the members of the Council of Ministers participate in international delegations, when necessary due to exceptional circumstances, for example, accidents and disasters, then those persons can be provided with the relevant motor vehicles and the relevant specialized transport, so that they can move really faster and be in the appropriate place faster and more smoothly. With regard to this category of persons, we provide, naturally, for a specific threat or complicated security environment, that all types of security may be included immediately by a decision of the committee concerned and by its reasoned decision. With regard to those who can also be with security under this law, we propose, but only in the case of a specific threat and in the case of a complicated security environment, that the members of the Council of Ministers be the MPs, and that the three of them be after their term of office is suspended, that is to say, the Chairman of the former President of the National Assembly, President and Prime Minister. At the moment this opportunity for them is for specialized transport up to four years. We propose that this should be dropped and that only in the event of a particular threat can these persons be placed under guard within six months. It is a question of really a specific decision in the Commission whether this deadline will be six months, or will be extended to one year, or more, given indeed the specific functions and powers, especially the prime minister. I am absolutely aware that, in principle, the prime minister in a country is the most endangered and he should really enjoy the highest protection in general. We also propose that the possibility of protecting the members of the families of the President of the National Assembly, the President and the Prime Minister be eliminated. It is apparent from the information provided to us in the Specialized Commission that for the last 30 years no husband or wife of a President of the National Assembly or a Prime Minister has been in this hypothesis of security. This was a provision used only by family members of the Presidents of the Republic of Bulgaria. We also propose that the President's administration be abolished from the right of security, as there is one reason in the Law that the National Security Service provides the transport activity of the President's administration. I believe this is a security service, not a transport service. Until 2015, such an opportunity existed in the regulations of the NSO, but then the NSO was directly subordinate to the President. To date, the National Security Service is now a top executive with a budget, a senior authorising officer with a budget is also the President and I believe that if there is a need for transport provision of the President's administration, this should be as provided for by the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers for payment, for request and if necessary to provide it. We have already envisaged the motivation of the Commission's decisions with clear arguments to place the appropriate types of security, because what we have learned from the two hearings in the Specialized Committee in closed session does not sound serious and does not sound serious how security is placed on the basis of single, unjustified and unverified sufficient signals. There really is work on this bill. I really wish between the first and second votes on the Bill to sit down and seriously review all the hypotheses. Indeed, the idea is not to take resources from the National Security Service, but rather to reorganize its work and to start working much more optimally. I really think this should be a first step, yet it is a law in which people who are guarded are high public positions. I see opposition to this bill, and we want to restrict the transport and use of cars throughout the administration, and we cannot limit the use of this in relation to higher public positions. When we cannot make such changes and start from ourselves, we cannot want to make any general or major changes with regard to everyone else. That's why I think it's necessary to start somewhere. It is necessary for this first step to begin here and to start a truly thorough and serious discussion on this bill. Yeah, don't make it emotional. Yes, not to do it quickly and unjustly, but to really use the capacity, the resource of all people who understand this matter. Moreover, the law itself states that there is no definition of the concept of specific threat and complicated security environment. I also think that we need to think about defining these concepts in order to make it clear and not put the Commission itself in difficulty when setting decisions. We have also provided for the Commission to be reported to the National Assembly at three months before the Specialized Commission in the National Assembly, and this has been done with a view to really greater publicity, accountability and transparency. In this way, the National Assembly will be able to exercise some sort of control and even when no security is placed on a particular person, but there are really serious signals, even the National Assembly could react. So there could be some balance and, in such a good interaction, there could be a more honest and correct application of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. We're in debate mode. The first statement was Mrs. Miteva's. You have the floor for debate on both laws. Anyone? Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u282	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! GERB's parliamentary group will not support both submitted bills for several reasons. The first reason is that we have set ourselves requirements in the Rules of Procedure for each submitted bill to be publicly discussed and then the committee that is leading in its work to vote on the amendments and additions. This did not happen in the way that we understand the concept of publicity, because last week the Commission for Control of the Services meets after 19:00 on these two bills. This meeting was attended only by the head of the NSO, who, by the way, I do not see in the Chamber now, and you probably did not invite him, but no opinions were heard, other than the opinions of the importers. I believe that although it is not a gross violation of the Rules of Procedure, the publicity and the application which we have all given at the beginning of this National Assembly that it will work differently, it is contrary to the actions and the scheduled meeting last week and the lack of an organisation for public examination and discussion of these bills by the President of the Commission Mr. Mitev. With regard to the bills, I will refer very briefly to the bill submitted by Mr. Hadjigenov, and only in the direction that if, Mr. Hadjigenov, your logic in your preamble to this bill is correct, then Secret Service may be the service which, one that guards with the most serious measures the President of the United States of America, I hope you do not think that he is a dictator. Because it has become clear from your statement that you identify one person's security with how he manages. I would like to say that for several years there has been a law on NTAC, I think since 2015, this service has been guarding with regulations. This law should be changed and supplemented, probably should, probably there are texts that should tolerate change because public relations and public attitudes change. However, I do not believe that this is the vital bill which must, at all costs, in its remaining short period of time, examine the National Assembly. The National Security Service, as well as the Bulgarian police, I hope you have all understood it, guarded the Bulgarian statehood, Bulgarian institutions and Bulgarian statesmen no matter what political party they come from. [[Replication by MP Nikolai Hadzhigenov.]] Yeah, that's right. And she's done that for over 141 years. Mr. Hadjigenov, you'll have time for a line. I believe that the political play with institutions that have a commitment to both public order and the security of the Bulgarian statesmen is inappropriate. I believe that these two bills do not realise that they would violate one structure and a number of service relationships if any of your laws were adopted. Because it is quite logical at the moment the numerical composition of those working in the National Security Service, according to my data, is more than 700 people, if their activity goes according to the order in which you have foreseen and are guarded by law only three persons, the President, the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly, that this structure will undoubtedly undergo changes and even though you did not foresee a change in the structure in both laws, then one bill provides that the activity will be directly controlled by the President, and then I do not see what the meaning of the law is if this is adopted by you. I think that when such changes are made, especially related to the structure and composition of any service, you should make it clear that people work there, these people have families and it is quite logical that if their activity is reduced in volume, it will impose different sanctions in terms of or reducing the budget of this service, which in 2021 is 47,5 million, or in terms of staff members of those working. In this sense, I cannot explain how Bulgaria would meet the standard that the National Security Service has asked for at this time, for example, when visiting different delegations. Just to remind you that during the Bulgarian Presidency last year this office was entrusted with all the delegations that visited the Republic of Bulgaria. This service has been entrusted with all international delegations, both by presidents and by chairmen of parliaments. It was also tasked with the organization during the visit of the pope, as well as the Bulgarian police, of course, meaning it is not a very simple task to change the structure, composition, the activity of a similar service, although it has been implemented for 141 years in my opinion sufficiently qualitatively and correctly, especially in the case of evidence in the past few years. There have been many of the world's leaders here, and as far as I know, there has been no breakthrough in the organisation and security of these people. Imagine that provided that these bills are adopted and some kind of incident occurs in the coming months or years, then Bulgaria will by no means stand with authority and a sufficiently secure and stable state, preferred for visiting by prominent world leaders and statesmen. I believe that the comments on the illusions of power, people surrounded by security, in order to be inaccessible are completely incorrect, and perhaps we will surprise you, because it is clear that we have repeatedly expressed an opinion on the security of certain individuals who are not within the circle of these President, Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but we believe that the protection and protection of the families of these statesmen requires that they use security from the National Security Service. We believe that if someone intends to seek action or inaction from these individuals or directly threaten them, they would really harm their families. No, we cannot be accused, especially of partiality to the President's family, but yes, I believe that any President of the Republic of Bulgaria, any Prime Minister of the Republic or President of the National Assembly, he must be sure that his family is protected and that no one can influence his decisions. In relation to the security of certain officials. I don't know if there's a country in the world that doesn't make any effort in terms of the security of its chief prosecutor. In this sense, it does not matter whether he is called Geshev or Peshev or any other.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u283	Ah, there is!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u284	The Attorney General, of course, is the figure that in every other country is most threatened. As far as you are concerned with a certain person, I think it will be a complete and absolute mistake to remove the security of office. I also believe that it is a symbol of poverty to remove the possibilities for specialized transport and security of our former presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three former presidents living in Bulgaria. I do not believe that it is a great burden on the state budget for their transport. Mr. Hadjigenov, you're going to give me a line, but since I heard how you're going to replicate me...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u285	There's another law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u286	There's a law on former presidents that's been revoked by Mrs. Miteva's Bill. You're not prepared and you haven't read all the bills. [[Reply from the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov.]] Well, don't replicate me then without the information you need. [[Laughter and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u287	Mr. Hadjigenov, don't make conversation from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u288	In this sense, I believe that in order to have confidence that we are a country at which institutions are at a level where institutions do not self-destruct, we should hold on to certain criteria. Apart from behavior, it must also protect institutions from such abuse. For this reason, our parliamentary group will refrain from supporting these two bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. First line, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u290	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be as quick as I can. First of all, I'm gonna try to talk slowly, like I'm answering to the chief of NSO. So we're not taking anything away from the NSA! Nothing, a gram, nothing! What we're taking away is the power that we're taking away. [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Next, during the Commission meeting, we were surprised to learn that this was the first open meeting of this committee since Tsvetanov's time, during which the Commission meetings were closed even when discussing bills, which is absurd. In the closed session there is a discussion of the Bill, which is then seen in the Chamber in open session. Tsvetanov "GERB," Borisov's former right-hand man. Finally, because I really don't see the point of this whole thing, did you really compare the President of the United States to the pathetic likeness of a dictator?! Thank you, Mrs. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u291	For the second line Mr. Stoyanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u292	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Atanasova, the staff of the National Security Service is currently over 1,100 people. [[Heckling]] About the public discussion. Under the legislation in force in the process of developing all new, revised policies and legal rules relating to national security and directly concerning the activities of the security services, no provision is made and no public control is put into effect at the legislative level. The control of the activities of the security sector is parliamentary and is carried out by the Specialized Permanent Committee of the National Assembly, as priorities of the National Security Policy and the resources for it are determined by the Council of Ministers in consultation with the President of the Republic and with the respective Permanent Committee of the National Assembly. The legislation does not provide for a mechanism for exercising public control over the security sector and a joint formulation of structural policies in this area, and therefore no public consultation or consultation shall be conducted in discussions or draft legislative acts, reports and other documents, but only in consultation with stakeholders. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u293	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mrs. Miteva for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u294	Mrs. Atanasova, public discussion has not been held. Yes, exactly what Mr. Mitev said that in fact this committee has never met openly. [[Heckling]] Hadjigenov, did you say that? I apologize. I also asked for a public discussion, but repeatedly I was told: no, this committee meets only closed. I asked specifically: what about laws? They said: and laws. That is, this committee in recent years has never met openly and therefore no public discussion has been envisaged. Given also the circle of persons falling within the framework of this law, given the importance of this law in relation to the entire public, the circle of persons is not as wide as the other laws for which we require a special public discussion. That is why the public discussion was not held in this committee and the Law was seen. If this committee had met in open meetings and looked at laws in open meetings, yes, it would have made public discussion and held one. With regard to the category of persons, the category of persons is not reduced very much. The category of persons is the main feather, which is being reduced, is the members of the Council of Ministers. The members of the Council of Ministers, by the way, have not had specialized transport until 2015, as we are proposing at the moment. They've only been guarded in a specific threat. What we're offering right now is what we're offering. In other words, the ministers who were under threat include security, all kinds of security. Including I told you that it should be discussed between the first and second votes including transport when this is really necessary for the activities of the respective ministers. As far as the Attorney General is concerned, no security of the Attorney General is being taken. The Prosecutor General shall remain with specialized transport and with all types of security in the event of an endangered situation. There's a committee, she'll make her decision. If there are concerns that this committee will not make a good and correct decision, I have told you that it will also be reported to the National Assembly, so that the balance can always be sought and a search for why no decision has been reached in a given context. With regard to the security of these persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u295	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u296	Yes, these persons are guarded by the NSO, but let's ask: who is guarding all other Bulgarian citizens? Who guards, for example, the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission or the CDC or the KEWRC or the CRC?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u298	Because I want to tell you that these presidents make many times more important decisions than those categories of persons who fall within the Law. I think these faces, if they're in danger...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u299	Time for a line...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u300	I asked repeatedly: who is guarding them? [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] They are guarded by the Ministry of Interior and every Bulgarian citizen who is in danger will be guarded by the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Manev, even if we don't change the law, these faces won't be guarded by NSOs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u301	The time for a reply is up. Thank you, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u302	So it really has to be the same regime for all Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u303	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u304	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Miteva, Mr. Mitev, regarding the public discussion. Mr. Mitev, in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly there is a Article. 25 and his al. 2. Since I believe that you have not read it, I would like to tell you its content: In this sense, it does not matter whether the bill concerns a security service because it is a bill. He, if he had classified information in his provisions, which is not possible within the meaning of our Constitution, should have been examined even at a closed session in this Chamber, only that is not the case. That is, the same rules apply to all other bills. What you read to me from some piece of paper, I don't know who wrote it to you, but it has nothing to do with parliamentary practice. Regarding the other lines from Mr. Hadjigenov. Mr. Hadjigenov, you, with your bill, and so far, I hope that between first and second reading, as Mrs. Miteva said, you will finally give a definition of the notions of a doctrinal necessity. [[Reply from the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In this sense, to deal with these concepts without them in either of the two laws, by the way, and in this bill, they are not explained as an additional provision, I believe that in the first place it is not good legal technique. Secondly, this deprives logic of both laws because a large part of the regulations cooperate with these two concepts. Finally: what are you taking? Well, Mrs. Miteva, with your bill, as I said in the Commission, you have even taken away the Chief of the Security Office's ability to define structure, activity and organisation. That's what you've already planned for the president to do. In that order of thinking, where is the commander-in-chief who is actually the principal of the NTAC? Doesn't he have an opinion at all, or will he veto later? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u306	Honourable Members, Madam President! The topic with the National Assembly is the topic of every new populist in this National Assembly at least during the last I attended. The first job if a populist shows up in this room, the first job is NSO. Unfortunately, I'm going to have to get into a role that I don't love at all, but sometimes I have to do it when we talk out of this tribune and it's about training. NTAC is not a taxi company, NSO is really not a transport organization. The National Security Service is the first institution established in this country. I can quote to you the Decree No 28 of August 30, 1879. [[Reply from the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov.]] It is not just Wikipedia, and it is best for you to be silent, because the institutions in this country mean nothing to you. And you've proved it more than once. Today I'm only talking about the Law and only about security. And unfortunately, today we can only talk, such is the Rules, in general categories for your bills. With the bills you are proposing, this conclusion will leave it at the end, there is not a single precedent on the subject of the protection of individuals in our country.... former, current, future presidents, prime ministers, chief prosecutors, even one of you during some debates had thought of the patriarch of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and any person at all, we will not subject them to security. Yeah, that's the dream, I told you right from the start, to every newly hatched populist. However, there are three things that you have done with the bills that I read and are important. First, if we accept the bills with the texts that you have proposed to us, believe me, those wishing to come to Bulgaria state officials of other countries will decline sharply, but sharply. I can also quote the text, I can explain to you why you put a principle in your text, in which you say that we should provide them with the kind of security that applies to them in a sending country, right? I can give you two quick examples of Israel, for such security that we cannot provide, if this is exactly what we need to meet their country and their security, and for example, the opposite one, choose Switzerland or Belgium, where security is extremely reduced without taking into account, however, that here in the border country where we expect a flow of migrants, we expect an increase in risk for such persons. I can turn for help from the professional colleagues in this room to tell you that I'm right. We need to up their security, but you're forbidding it in the law. We need to increase the security that applies to them in their country, because the security situation is different here, but we in law have banned it. Here's an example. I said I wasn't allowed to stop by text because that's the rule, but we're trying to follow it because some people here accused us of being rude. In this regard, among other things, I have heard at least a hundred times in election campaigns, both at the beginning and at the previous parliament, and at this Parliament, from this tribune, and from all studios, about the bad practice of the previous and the previous National Assemblys to adopt laws in the Final Provisions. Did you count how many are in your bill? How many laws will you change with the Final Provisions? All related to the national security of the country, one way or another. It's okay! The topic and the debate about the National Security Service, its functions, the types of security and the way of carrying out state security in the country is a topic that needs to be addressed. And it needs to be looked at really very deeply at a very serious professional level. Please don't explain this to me because it's not true. [[(Replication by the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov:]] Absolutely! And don't yell at me, because I can talk to you, too, but it's not good, because we're in the National Assembly, which you threw eggs at, remember? [[Replication by the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov: "It was the Council of Ministers! "]] That's right! And now, in order to graduate, I would not comment on this person who stands against me and his bill, which is of three and a half sentences, if he had written the names in it, we would have received the unique parliamentary practice to write down the names of the people to whom the bill relates. It's really a unique practice. I have to finally say my conclusion of what I read in both bills. In fact, you want to shut down the National Security Service. And I will prove to you the texts of your bills. Imagine the situation adopted by your bills, on which the three great ones signed a declaration that they do not want to be guarded, and no agreement was reached in the Council for any other person, because there were decisions to be taken on one of the bills unanimously, right? Well, now tell me, if we don't have endangered persons approved by the Council, all three great people sign that they don't want to be guarded, what will the Service do? We're gonna shut it down, right? This is the ultimate goal of everything you do. Okay, now that you've decided to enter history and shut down the first service, find options for it to be possible for the state officials of this country and the guests who come to receive the appropriate security. And that can happen, but it can happen in a parliament where, first of all, the politicians are talking to each other. Secondly, experts are not ashamed to state their expertise for political purposes or for the political decisions of their party groups and in a situation in which it is clear to both us and Bulgarian citizens and the huge group of professionals who work in these services, that in fact what we do in the National Assembly with regard to them is in order to take care of their work, not to destroy them and destroy them, because the people of these services have come out do you know where they are going? [[Heckling]] Well, I'm not gonna tell you, you're gonna say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u307	Thank you, Mr. Manev. For a line, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u308	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be as brief as possible. Brilliant logic. Pride for every single militia school. By the same logic, the Bulgarian army must fight every day to justify its existence. Really? Or not? Aha! Everything else was just as meaningful. Thank you, Mrs. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u309	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. For a line, ma'am, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u310	Mr. Manev, yes, indeed the National Security Service should be for security, not a transport company. And I think the direction of our bill is exactly that. That is why I said that between first and second readings, we must very carefully see the balance and very carefully review the texts and provide for all the guarantees that this will take place and, indeed, those people to continue with dignity and responsibility to do what they have been taught and what they have been appointed to do. Secondly, it's not populism. I was even accused of being petty. I don't think it's petty either. But if it is populism, I will ask you that Prime Minister Borisov made the ministers get out of the cars and they were forced to get out of the cars. And that was a few months before the public forgot, the media stopped writing and started all over again. So I think that apparently Prime Minister Borisov himself was ripe for this idea after he publicly ordered this to happen. With regard to the three laws in which the Final Provisions are dealt with, these are bills relating to this law, and this is, you know, the law on the Ministry of Interior, the Law on the Protection of Persons You 2020 changed and predicted similar security as there are in the law on the National Security Agency and in the Law on the Ministry of Interior. For some reason, without motives, without prior impact assessment, without public discussion between the first and second votes, Mr. Manev. Likewise in the Law on the Protection of Persons. In other words, we currently have three laws that can protect the same persons by which they like, but not all other Bulgarian citizens. And with regard to international delegations, I will also tell you the representatives of other countries. These are provisions and texts that I have tabled on a proposal from the Security Service itself, because these are additional texts, these are texts that they obviously want to write in more detail in the Law. Nobody's taking anything, no one's giving anything more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Is there another line? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u312	Thank you. That's right, Manev. I will not answer him for anything else, but simply because the tone with which he starts a conversation, if I enter it, we are already at the bottom of this National Assembly anyway, let us not enter this scheme. Now, militiamen, militia logic and so on. If the war was a life cycle of the army, these are such interesting topics about this National Assembly, which has so much work done that we came to specify if it was a war war, was it active if it had not been a war. Well, the security services also exist because they perform their functions. If they stop performing their functions, they don't have to be there at all. However, regarding colleague Miteva, I will try to be brief but very quick to respond. The fact that the ministers were coming down was precisely to respect the function of the Security Service that it was not a transport company. And since the Law did not allow a full amount of security to be provided, the measures were introduced in the Act on the Ministry of Interior, which allowed individuals to be guarded by that echelon, which you, by the way, talked about in your reasoning that the head of the NRA or the employee of the NRA who performed for millions or billions of audit cases, and so on, and we introduced the possibility to be guarded by the law of the Ministry of Interior. And the fact that you want with the Final Provisions to change this is bad as a fact because of the closing provisions themselves, because there is very little space, very little possibility of debate on this topic, because currently under the current law on the Ministry of Interior, there are changes made at the level of the main Directorates, which are a fact. And these displacements and displacements cannot occur with a single line in the Final Provisions. That's what I'm saying. If you, the majority in this room, decide to remove it, you will remove it, but you will make it so that it happens in its order, it can become a fact. In the end, just for the security functions, because it's a really sick subject for me. Understand, the Security Service, the National Security Service can be used as a political flag, can be used for political advertising, can be used pre-electionally, any can be used. And the worst part is that people who aren't under that kind of security and suddenly fall under that kind of security, they feel the great discomfort, they can't get used to it, and the first reaction is: let's give up, let's get rid of it, let's get rid of it, let's not have this miracle. However, none of these persons is Mrs. Miteva, it is not the Prime Minister, the President, Ivan, Dragan. These are the state persons of Bulgaria, and this discomfort they experience because of this. If show stars, if musicians, if other people are doing it to show something or because they've decided, then in the case of our public faces...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u313	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u314	...this can't be happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u315	Thank you, Mr. Manev. For speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov. Mrs. Manolova, you have the floor for speeches on the main positions of the submitted bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u316	Madam President, honourable Members...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u317	The card, if you'd like to put it on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u318	Can you take my time straight?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u320	Thank you. In fact, I would like to remind you of some facts relating to the reform of the NSO. It started in 2018 during Boyko Borisov's third cabinet, when Finance Minister Goranov announced that a reform of the National Assembly was under way and the first action of this reform was expressed in the withdrawal of the special purpose vehicle of the national ombudsman. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] In fact, in fact, Mr. Goranov announced that the NSO has become an expensive taxi service and that the reform is imperative to begin and that the first to remain without specialized transport is the national Ombudsman. I want to tell you that there is nothing to be afraid of, some people holding high public positions, being left without specialized transport and telling you from their own experience, because immediately afterwards we found the advantages of traveling by train, on a bus trip, on a subway journey. There is absolutely nothing to be afraid of if some persons holding high positions enter public transport. And here it should be acknowledged to Mr. Goranov, in fact, his contribution to the fact that, as early as 2018, he saw that a serious reform at NSO was needed to save money and to return to the people, according to him, the people holding high public positions. So there is nothing to be afraid of, let the mayor of Sofia and other persons holding high public positions return to the people where they belong. I don't understand this resistance, it's not scary to be left without a NSO car, without a special mode car, but it's very useful.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u321	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there any lines to Mrs. Manolova's statement? I won't. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u322	Dear colleagues, all of you who have not been MPs in the past 10 years know that the attitude towards NSO among citizens is extremely negative because of the savage driving, driving inside some presidents or prime ministers. For the past 10 years, we know who drove that way and who pushed off the street and who pushed the streets. Yes, the persons of the state must have security, but the persons of the state are: the President of the National Assembly, the President and the Prime Minister. People of the state are not former Presidents of the National Assembly from two meetings ago, such as the wonderful Kardzhali representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The face of the state is not former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. The face of the state is not Yordanka Fandakova, so the persons of the state yes, but any others who want to be important and ride with guards and carry their children, boyfriends and women around, will not, deserve, do not, and will not have NSOs. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u323	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Replies to Mr. Yordanov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u324	When I say that populism when it comes to this room, the first job is NSO. No one believes me, but it is a fact. First, who are the people of the state? Unfortunately, or fortunately, you don't define them. [[Reply from IHN: "Neither you. "]] That's right! It's the law that defines them. You want to make this law that defines these persons of the state with three sentences in four days. Okay, it's okay. Finally, I can only think of one woman who's been in the NTAC talking about the wife. A woman, wife of a Bulgarian spoken language, wife. There's only one wife I can think of who went to buy dresses, said in the papers, I don't know if that's true?! But that shouldn't destroy the NSA! The fact that someone exceeds their rights that someone gets in the car and treats their husband's employees as subordinates should not shut down the NSO because the NSO is an institution of our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u325	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Any other lines? For the coat, Mr. Yordanov, please. What if there's a line? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov. There are no other lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u326	I absolutely agree that women shouldn't ride if that's true. Absolutely! I also absolutely agree that Boyko Borisov should not ride by the NGO and I am absolutely for.. You have not said it, but add it: don't miss Boyko Borisov, who is former prime minister, to be mandachertz with NSO, or Tsveta Karayancheva, who distribute it as the production she has produced. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u327	The former Prime Minister can't be mandachertz because he's...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u328	Exactly, mandacherza is because he is currently a former with a fake threat, although in his case, if he walks down the center of Sofia, perhaps we will see what the situation is? [[Laughter]] Tsveta Karayancheva, who distributes it as the production in which she worked there, only they turned out to be plastic, not galvanized. [[Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Yordanka Fandakova, who is the mayor of the capital, but let's say the mayor of a big city, and the mayor of Plovdiv, and of Varna, and of Burgas, and with nothing need to be guarded by NGO.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u329	Write down the names...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u330	So don't talk to me about populism.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u331	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u332	Because you are a representative of the most disgusting party that has existed in Bulgaria in the last 15 years. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u333	Mr. Yordanov, I'm making a note. Mrs. Atanasova, come in. Speech or procedure? Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u334	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, the procedure is in the manner of conduct. I don't understand how, Madam President, you allow such speeches from the parliamentary tribune? To speak insulting words about a former Prime Minister, for a former President of the National Assembly is not only a demonstration of a lack of any culture, but it is also a demonstration that these people have no place in the plenary of the posts they occupy. Until recently, we talked about respect between institutions, about rating institutions. Madam President, if you do not stop such ridiculous speeches, then there is no longer any reason for rating agencies to measure the rating of the National Assembly in the event of speeches by Mr. Toshko from the plenary tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'll take a note. I made a remark to Mr. Yordanov about the language he used.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u336	You should be kicking him out of the courtroom, not making a remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u337	Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Babikan. [[The MPs from GERB-SDS parliamentary group are leaving the plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u338	Dear Mrs. Chairman... [[Noise and lines from IBGNI.]] Is that polite, where are you running? [[He addressed the MPs from GERB-SDS. Laughter at IBGNI and ITN.]] Your chairman remained after you made a remark to her. I would be proud if I had started the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I don't know why today's country is associated with the monarchy in Bulgaria? Can't you hear the monarchy? [[It addresses the MPs from GERB-SDS, who are already outside the plenary.]] From Bankya. Somehow they can't hear me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u339	Mr. Babikan, please don't shout.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u340	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u341	Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u342	We seem to be confusing that monarchy with today's village monarchy, which was introduced in Bulgaria and the bank's bank that ruled, with a real monarch. So the pride of when today's National Security Service was founded, I suggest that it be put in the back pocket of the former government. I think Mr. Manev's last statement from Stara Zagora, which I say with the pride this city deserves, proved that those who are finally absent in the Chamber understood what this is about. Because he could only think of one wife.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u343	Mr. Babikan, your statement should be on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u344	The Bill, because it was family security, wasn't it, or am I wrong? So he only figured out one wife?! At that time, he was impressed with the unpleasantness of this service. I mean, he understood that it wasn't about NTAC and its existence, it was about the rights of certain authorised persons. Hallelujah! GERB finally understood what this bill is about to limit the rights of the rightful and not to close the National Security Service. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u345	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Any lines on Mr. Babikan's statement? Are there any other statements? I propose that we move on to voting on the two laws. We will vote on them one by one. First, we will vote on the bill proposed by Mr. Hadjigenov. [[Reply.]] We're in voting mode. Please call off the vote. [[Noise and lines from ISN and IBGNI: "Eee! "]] I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines. The President shall not announce the outcome of the vote. National Representative Hamid Hamid wants the floor.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u346	Madam President, I was just trying to vote, and you stopped very quickly. I'm asking for a re-election procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u347	I'm sorry. Revoting procedure. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Revoting requested Mr. Hamid. [[(Noise and lines from ISN and IBGN:]] Yeah, re-vote. [[(Radio.) Laughter at ISN. The vote lasts more than two minutes. Commendations: "Cut off the vote. ")]] You've finished the re-voting procedure. I'm sorry. Vote 100 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 1. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]] There's no 121 votes. [[IHN lines]] What rules? [[Noise and lines from ISN and IBGNI.]] We're moving on to the next bill. [[Noise and lines from IHN: "Take a look at your board!"]] There's no 121 votes. [[The MPs from GERB-SDS parliamentary group are returning to the plenary. Noise and lines from all MPs. A large part of the MPs are standing in front of the stand.]] I'm gonna take the liberty of taking a break because I really want to know if this proposal is coming through or not... [[crowd cheering and chirping]] [[Applause. Whistle. ♪ Whoo! ♪ What vacation? The break and it must be voted out! " - President Rositsa Kirova is coming out of the plenary. Loud noise. President Rositsa Kirova returns to plenary. Applause and cheering: "Idee! "]] Shall we continue? [[Noise and lines.]] So, the offer is not accepted. We don't have 121 votes. [[Lowered noise and lines: "How can there not be?"]] We're moving on to the next bill. We're in voting mode! [[Noise and lines.]] We're in voting mode, moving on to the next bill. Please vote! [[There is such a people and there is a stand up BG! We're coming! are right in front of the first banks.)]] Please vote! [[(Reply of National Representative Maria Kapon:) Look at your dashboard! Which of all things is not.....a loud noise.)]] Please! [[(Relations of National Representative Toshko Yordanov: What are you trying...? There are rules!]] We're in voting mode! Please vote! [[(Relations of the National Representative Toshko Yordanov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u348	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u349	Here you go. [[Reply: We are in the vote!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u350	Cancel the vote and we'll call off the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u351	I'm not canceling the votes. Please, we're in voting mode! [[Loud noise and screams on the right.]] Let's vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u352	Can I have the word for procedure, then?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u353	In voting mode, you have no say in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u354	What regime?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u355	You don't have a say in procedure! We're in voting mode! Please! [[(Loud noise. People's representative Maria Kapon's line: On what vote, on which......................................................................................................]] We are voting on the second bill tabled by Mrs. Iva Miteva! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u356	No, no, we're not voting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u357	We're in voting mode!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u358	We're not voting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u359	It's your will!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u360	You can't impose decisions on a vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u361	No, I'm not imposing it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u362	Who did?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u363	I've consulted the decision! [[(Noise and lines. It hasn't got a lot to do with it.]] We're already in voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u364	REPLICA: Just because you can't lead doesn't mean you have to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u365	I understand you perfectly, but we're in voting mode. The fact that you disagree with the decision and have not secured enough majority to pass is not my fault.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u366	REPLICA: Mrs. Kirova, after the first vote you had to check the quorum. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u367	You just don't have a say! [[Loud noise.]] You can have it, of course! [[Reply: "Come on, stop this vote. "]] We're in voting mode! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u368	REPLICA: Madam President, we still live in democracy, not a dictatorship!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u369	Abort the vote! Please announce the results! [[(Loud noise. You leave it for tomorrow when you don't have a quorum. You can't do it like that!]] No, I'm not leaving it for tomorrow. Please announce the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u370	It can't work. The President of the National Assembly is absolutely not in class right now and does not know what he is doing. He just can't announce anything. You can't! Or he should do a quorum check. Somebody explain it to her. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u371	I'm announcing the results. 72 votes for, against, none, abstention 1. The proposal is not accepted because there is no 121 [[Loud noise. Proclaims: "Woo!" "Replication by the People's Representative Desislava Atanasova: "Prevoting! "]] Revoting, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u372	I'll go first. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] I was here for a re-voting. [[Heckling]] No, they gave it to me. Madam President, I would like a roll call check on the upcoming re-voting of the NTAC Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u373	When re-voting, there's no name check. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u374	That is right, in connection with the upcoming vote, I can request a roll call check with reading the names of the Members of the National Assembly. I have a right to ask. [[Replications. Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u375	Yeah, okay. I'm waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u376	I'd like to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u377	Yes, we have heard your proposal, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u378	So, in this room, besides Desislava Atanasova, there are other MPs. And others! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Madam President, in connection with the forthcoming re-voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the NGO Act, I would like a re-voting on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the NGO! We're coming!...as the inspection to be done with the roll call of the MPs. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u379	Thank you. I heard you, Mrs. Manolova. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor for an offer back. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u380	Thank you, Madam President. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Calm down, sir. Madam President, I do not object to having the quorum checked, but I would like this to be done with the electronic voting system, because this is the first opportunity given to us by the Rules. Please check the quorum with... [[Loud noise and lines.]] On behalf of a parliamentary group, ladies and gentlemen, you may request a name check in the Rules of Procedure and the President of the National Assembly shall determine how it is to be carried out. Madam President, please determine a roll call check by registering with the electronic devices of each Bank of the National Representative and then proceed to revoting the bill. Thank you. [[(Replication by National Representative Maria Kapon:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u381	Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u382	Madam President, I understand that in Vidin at the municipal council sometimes this is how it works, but not here. At the moment we have on behalf of the parliamentary group - Mrs. Manolova asked for a name check - and it is not put to the vote - nor is there any indication how to do this because it is a name check by calling. Until a moment ago, at the request of the President, it was done electronically, i.e. at the moment you must start the roll call check on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u383	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Don't you think it would be easier if it was electronically checked? [[(Loud noise and lines. Revelations: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Okay. All right, we're gonna start the roll call. [[Loud noise.]] Here you go, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u384	Since National Assembly President Iva Miteva is at an important meeting in her office, she has just authorised Mrs. Victoria Vasileva to lead the meeting. [[(Applause from IHN. A line from the MP Desislava Atanasova: You are not a spokesperson, this cannot happen.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u385	Please check the quorum through the electronic system to see how many MPs are present in the hall, quickly. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please! [[Noise and lines.]] Check the quorum, I'm waiting! I'm starting to read it by name. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I'll start with the name check, I'll start with the reading. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Simeonova Varbanova- absent Alexandra Krasimirova Sterkova- absent Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov- here Alexander Blagovestov Todorov- here Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- absent Alexander Velislavov Todorov- here Alexander Victorov Rashev-- here. Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- absent Alexander Stykov Markov-- here. Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Alper Azizov Muradov- absent Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- here Andrey Nikolaev Mikhailov- here Anita Petrova Kocelova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- missing Antoinette Andonova Stefanova- here Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- here Armaan Agop Babikan here Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov- absent Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bajram Yuzkan Bajram is absent Bilyan Borimirov Karshovski - here Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- absent Boyko Lubomirov Kletchkov- absent Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- absent Borislav Dimitrov Sandov- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev- absent Valeri Plamenov Lachowski- here Vasil Dimitrov Apostolov- here Vassil Yordanov Georgiev- absent Велизар Матев Шаламанов- here Ventsislav Mihailov Asenov- here Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- here Vladimir Marinov Marinov- absent Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev- here Vladislav Panchev Panev- here Galina Ivanova Tavalyka-Georgieva- here Galina Ivancheva Dimitrova- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Zaharinin Popov-here Georgi Yordanov Ganev-here Georgi Milchev Chepishev- here Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Guner Nihat Ahmed is absent Daniel Valeriev Georgiev- here Danny Stefanova Canazireva - absent Daniel Pavlov Mitov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Deliana Valerieva Pesheva- here Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva- absent Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Jekova Taneva- absent Desislava Tsvetanova Tsoneva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov- here Dimitar Angelov Ivanov- here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Yordanov Yanev- here Dimitar Petrov Syarov- here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Gardev- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Ekaterina Spasova Gecheva-Zaharieva- missing Elisaveta Dimitrova Belobradova- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Esheref Kasim Esheref is absent. Zhecho Donchev Stankov- absent Zhivka Mihaleva Iron- here Zhivko Ivanov Tabakov- here Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva- Mostrova - here Zornitsa Velinova Stratieva - here Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- missing Ivaylo Vanev Valchev- here Ivaylo Krasimirov Kozhuharov- absent Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev - here Ivaylo Peev Staribratov- here Ivaylo Hristov Hristov- here Ivan Borisov Totev- absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Vassilev Hinoski- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Rumenov Klisurski- here Ivan Stoynov Kuchukov- here Ivelin Stoyanov - here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Ivo Georgiev Atanasov- here Iliana Petkova Zhekova- here Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- absent Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kaloyan Milkov Yankov- here Catherine Georgieva Riyahova- here Katya Maximova Paneva- here Kiril Milanov Ananiev- absent Kiril Sashev Simeonov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Georgiev Angelov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasen Kirilov Kralev-here Krasimir Georgiev Valchev- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Krum Georgiev Donchev- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Lydia Great Marinova- absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Ivanov Bakardzhiev- here Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov- absent Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Kostadinov Peykov- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Maria Vassileva Capon- here Maria Tsvetanova Petrova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Petrov Andonov-- here. Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova- here Meglena Harry Guncheva- here Mika Mikhailova Zaykova- here Mincho Hristov Kuminev- absent Mladen Naydenov Marinov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - absent Momchil Kunchev Ivanov- here Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant is absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova- here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nikolay Dimitrov Hadjigenov- here Nikolay Emilov Hristov- here Nikolay Nankov Nankov- absent Nikolay Stefanov Radulov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- absent Pavel Vassileva Mitova- here Pavlin Pavlov Krastev- absent Pawnita Mihailova Petrova- here Pencho Malinov Malinov here. Petko Angelov Kushtrev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Nikolaev Nikolov- absent Petar Pandushev Chobanov- here Peter Hristov Dimitrov- here Petar Yassenov Marinov-here Petya Bozhidarova Dimitrova- here Petya Dimcheva Mihalevska- absent Petya Nikolaeva Tsankova- absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Ivanov Danailov- here Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski- here Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov- here Radomir Petrov Cholakov- here Radoslav Nikolov Boychev- here Radostin Petev Vassilev- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov- absent Rosen Kirilov Dimov- here Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Rumen Stefanov Pavlov- absent Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov- here Svetoslav Bonchev Kolev- here Svetoslav Georgiev Georgiev- here Svilen Tsonev Andreev- here Sevin Ismail Ali is missing. Sezgin Yussain Mehmed- absent Sylvi Kirilov Petrov- here Sylvia Marinova Nikolova- here Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva- absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- absent Stanislav Svetozarov Balabanov- here Stella Dimitrova Nikolova- here Stefan Apostolov - absent That's it. We have a quorum. [[Heckling]] I can continue to list them: Stefan Ivanov Burgeev is absent.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u386	What's the count?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-02.u387	We have 125 MPs in the room. [[Applause.]] I'm going to rethink the proposal. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. We don't have 121 votes and the proposal is not accepted. [[(Shouting, whistling, and saying: "Enough already! ; I want the word!" ;]] We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
