ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! There's a quorum, I'm opening today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Under the National Assembly's Work Programme for this week, the agenda for today includes parliamentary control in accordance with art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Also yesterday remained unfinished third point of our program for the week, namely the Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules for Remote Participation in the National Assembly meetings of MPs placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19. I propose that we complete the third item of the Programme for the week following the completion of parliamentary control on item five. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I am making a procedural proposal that point three of the weekly programme, namely the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, become point one for today and then continue with parliamentary control. I think they have very few minutes of parliamentary groups. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u3	Thank you. Colleagues, let's vote on this proposal. They voted 203 MPs: 190 against 6, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point three of our program for the week: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT DISTANCE RULES IN THE MEETINGS OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES LOCATED UNDER A REQUIRTIONAL IMPLEMENT OR CARANTINAL COVID-19. Declaration please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "Declaration" On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, ? Democratic Bulgaria?????????????? In a war, he wins who knows and predicts the enemy better. Vaccines train our immunity to know and predict the enemy. COVID-19 certificate in Bulgaria has already been introduced. It was introduced to a large group of citizens, including our children who go to school. The reasons are expert, medical and include the fact that vaccination decreases by 63% the risks of spread of the disease, 70% hospitalization and 90% deaths. According to the Scientific Survey of October 2001, a Kovid certificate in its current approved version can effectively help prevent the spread of infection and promote freedom of movement while defending the right to health as far as possible. Forty-seventh National Assembly was elected to represent the Bulgarian people directly. Therefore, the CoVID-19 certificate must also apply to all Members of the National Assembly, as to any voter of ours. Although the order of the Minister of Health for a Kovid certificate does not explicitly cover the judiciary and the legislature, it would be a show of a severe lack of morality and representation not to accept the responsibility and not to comply with this requirement in the territory of the Bulgarian Parliament. This territory is not defined on the basis of a job, but on the basis of a venue for meetings, discussions, disputes, solutions and legislation. Here come citizens and journalists and others, which is why there are characteristics exceeding those in the workplace. It is our duty to serve Bulgarian citizens, but also to take a leading position on issues that directly concern public health and well-being in times of crisis. The continuing institutional slowdown leads to the unwinding spread of the virus, and with it to increased preventable mortality of Bulgarian citizens, as well as the widespread distrust among them. From our inappropriate action or inaction arise measurable health failures precisely because of the diversity of the signals we are sending to the citizens of this high tribune. When we talk about discrimination and rights, we should note that the highest law guaranteed in the Bulgarian Constitution is the right to life established in art. 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 3 undertakes the state to protect the health of citizens. Let's not miss art. 57, para. 2 which affirms that there is no abuse of rights and their exercise if it prejudices the rights or legitimate interests of others. The role of the green certificate is only one of us that has, through it, certify that in contact with other people it does not put them at an unjustified increased risk and does not commit an attack on their lives and health. This is a scientifically justified approach to defining potential risk levels and the appropriate management of that risk through the measures envisaged for this purpose. This is not an isolated approach in our country. The European Parliament requires a copy certificate of 3 November, and the parliaments of the Netherlands, Latvia and other countries have the same access requirements, and even the Albanian Parliament obliges MPs and ministers to be vaccinated as a manifestation of state leadership. Unfortunately, for too long we have been dealing with close political discussions in the area with clear medical priorities, rather than implementing leadership, by keeping the most valuable lives of citizens in the country in this emergency environment. In relation to the above, we would also like to quote the colleagues in parliament, who said at the beginning of this Parliament in this very hall, called by Zahari Stoyanov sacred: we would like to show a common and dignified attitude, appropriate to the high morals of the people's representative, as well as: we are obliged to bring the state to its feet. Bulgaria does not need cowardly rulers, but people who protect the national interest. Today, our people deserve new and decisive leaders. Let us unite behind a decision that we will propose to turn the Bulgarian Parliament into a place where the management mind will triumph over viral geniuses and political opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u5	Thank you, Professor. We continue with the discussion on the Draft Decision and the proposed amendment by Professor Baltov yesterday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, there is a tradition here that speaks to congratulate you on your position. I will also join all other colleagues. The opinion of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is in line with yesterday's recital by the President of the parliamentary group. Today we are discussing other details about ensuring the work of our colleagues. This is a matter of an in-depth discussion that will be held within the parliamentary hall and between the leadership of the parliamentary groups and a decision will be taken. The entire parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is practically green certificates. We're not against the green certificate and we've never been against it. We were only puzzled by the way it was introduced into Bulgaria. In our opinion, it was awkward, and we have made this very formal. Therefore, I think we should not prolong this discussion with continuous outbursts of facts and considerations, but leave it for a period in the coming days, when it will be defined and we will take the appropriate positive decision for both our authority and for our tasks. All I can say is that you don't have to mix all the government offices, they have their specifics. This is also said by many experts in the field of epidemiology. And in the end, I'm gonna take the liberty of saying something. It cannot be that people who have represented part of the problem CIVID-19 in its non-solving, who left the Bulgarian nation practically three months without vaccines, who two academic years deprived Bulgarian children of education, now become crucial to this problem. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] [[noise, lines and banging on banks by GERB-SDS]] That's incorrect, and we won't allow it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u7	Thank you. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u8	Dear colleagues, when representatives of the BSP from this tribune begin to tell us with a edifying tone what is the order, what we can talk about, what we can and can't discuss, things get scary in Bulgaria. As for what we discuss and what we do not discuss. What are you so afraid to say that the green certificate in Bulgaria should apply either to everyone or to anyone? What are you afraid of? That's the truth. If your minister, your minister can't... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Your... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, I didn't recognize you in the mask. [[Laughs and laughs.]] So if this minister can't get his orders straight, he can't bring in the things that can help deal with the crisis, we have to be honest, and honesty requires that we say just that, or the rules apply to everyone, or they don't apply to anyone. There is no other thesis, no other philosophies. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u9	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Professor? No. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u10	I will speak as a MP who speaks only for himself, not on behalf of the political party in which I am a member. With this clarification, I'll begin. I would like to express my personal gratitude to the Democratic Bulgaria, which once again shows their proverbial consistency in behavior. Yesterday they said they would not vote for GERB's proposal, today we heard how they will actually support it. It's a good thing a man has consistent co-workers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u11	Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! "Democratic Bulgaria" is indeed consistent in its position. From the very beginning, Democratic Bulgaria has defended the introduction of the green certificate and vaccination, although we disagree with the way it was introduced in these short periods, but we have not stated from this tribune that we will support GERB's decision. On the contrary, Dr. Simidchiev made it clear that we would propose a draft decision that would fully settle the matter, as there was a discussion of the Conference of Presidents on this topic. We didn't say that yesterday and today. In this sense, we are ready with the draft decision. I hope that he will be consulted with the parliamentary groups and can be supported by everyone because he does not restrict rights but creates order in chaos. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u13	Thank you. Another line? I won't. The hole, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u14	Thank you for that clarification. That, how can I say, calmed my concerns at that moment. But it is good that you also believe that the National Assembly is a mall or a restaurant, because the rules that are currently imposed by the Health Minister are for public sites with free access, such as shopping malls, commercial areas over 300 squares, if I am not mistaken, urban transport. So if this thing is accepted, I suggest we eat at the banks here, put things in, act like we're in public transportation and put other signs here at all. [[Applause from IHN and AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u15	Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I wouldn't mind each of my fellow Members expressing his opinion, but if you could keep an eye on the order from the point of view that everyone has the right to speak once on the given point. I don't mind Mr. Yordanov's statement, but essentially he spoke at the same point yesterday, saying casually that his personal opinion is that he will not support it. So, please, keep an eye on the order in the room, check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. He didn't make a statement yesterday, Mr. Yordanov. I think... [[Noise and lines.]] It was a line. It was a line, it wasn't a statement. Okay, thank you. Next statement. Here you go. Excuse me. [[turns to MP Ivo Ruschev, who is approaching the stands]] , the time of the parliamentary group of ARRANGEMENT is over. You have the opportunity to request an extension to a third.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u18	We haven't spoken today.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u19	Are you here for an affidavit, or...?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u20	It's an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u21	It's an extension of time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u22	First of all, thanks for the extension. Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday there were some statements about the high mortality rate of COVID-19, but no one said anything about closed hospitals. [[Reply: "It's not on the subject. "]] Yeah, about the state of the still undisclosed hospitals and the absence of medical personnel.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u23	Mr. Ruschev, just on the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u24	It's on the subject. [[Reply: You won't have enough time.]] I'll have time, don't worry. We very well know that we are fighting precisely against the green certificate, which imposes restrictions on healthy people. I would like to call Mr. Petkov, Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Ivanov stand by us in the fight against the green certificate. Do not allow yourself to be despised by your people, as are colleagues from GERB and DPS! Fight for Bulgaria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u25	No offense, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u26	I'm not insulting anyone. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u27	A line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u28	Honorable, Mr. Chairman, ministers gentlemen, honourable colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the editorial proposal that our parliamentary group has made, if you try to recall it or perhaps read it once again, actually locks the subject, it extends rights and does not limit any rights. This proposal says that a person who, for some reason in terms of green certificate, doesn't want to wear it or can't wear it or not...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u29	Put it on... Ljubo. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u30	The vaccine!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u31	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u32	...has the right to participate in the work of the National Assembly. What's bothering you about this, in this paper? We don't restrict anyone's rights on the contrary, we expand. We say: a person who has some specific attitude towards the country's established order may continue to participate. Now, whether the Assembly looks like a mall or not, it might be more similarities than differences, as long as coalition negotiations are being made at a mall, why shouldn't the Assembly be at a mall? Take another look at this. There's no drama! What special order shall we discuss? What special bill will we make, gentlemen, for our attitude to the green certificate? It's just either we accept it or we don't accept it. How many times do we have to do this thing? Well, you don't agree that the amendment belongs to GERB. Enter exactly the same and end this topic. People are laughing at us, really. They're laughing, it's just... Think about it one more time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u34	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Perhaps it is normal that some of those who are listening to us have lost sight of the issue that we are debating after the debate has been interrupted. In fact, the esteemed Professor Baltov of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS proposed yesterday to the Project for a decision giving the MPs the right to sit remotely if they are sick or quarantined, to add those who do not have a green certificate. As if the defenders do not realize that it does not introduce any obligations for the MPs to give an example to the Bulgarians that they are holders of such a certificate, but quite the opposite it would lead those who do not have such a certificate to have more rights than those who have. Since a MP who does not have a certificate will be able to choose whether to come here or meet online, while those who have a certificate will only be obliged to work here. The certificate is a mechanism that should give more opportunities for action, and not the other way around that is its logic, but that is not really the logic of your proposal. It is not motivated by public health care, nor by the need to broadcast a strong and courageous message to people to be vaccinated. No! GERB use the topic to play on the string that MPs consider themselves more than others. And this deeply embedded in our society, in our public consciousness there is, of course, its reasons. But they are not related to the green certificates, ladies and gentlemen of GERB. Not the green certificate card that MPs wave in the face of a policeman who stops them for speeding! It's not the number of the green certificate that dictates when they call someone to settle another ladybug! It is not the green certificate the reason for the pensions not to be indexed for 10 years, but the MEPs' salaries...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u35	It's not about the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u36	...to be updated every three months. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] And it's not about lawmakers and green certificates at all, it's about applying the law to power. I wonder if the vaccine was made by the planters who withdrew the millions at the end of the scheme with the "Hemus"?! [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u37	Mr. Zarkov, let it be on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u38	I wonder how many of the prosecutors' antibodies from the eight midgets? [[Laughter]] What kind of certificate are the words: a full support and to what right does this certificate give? At meetings online? I don't believe it! Actually...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u39	Take his word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u40	Mr. Zarkov, please be on the topic of remote participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am returning to the subject, and the topic is besides the green certificate the attitude of MPs and rulers to the law. It has been said that lawmakers and authorities behave like God-elects, and that is a topic, I think. The opposition has an important role to play, and I wish you to play it..... to hold the power in continuous tension.... on this topic... the way they use it or abuse the power, which means to actually behave like many oppositionists before you. However, the real change will come if the new rulers behave radically differently from you and we must say this clearly, because this, ladies and gentlemen of the new majority, which I hope will be compiled, is a test before us, not a quiz, but the real political test. Let us make it clear that, as vaccines are the only means of controlling pandemics, the reforms of the judiciary are the only sure guarantee for the attitude of the authorities. But this is another debate, Mr. Chairman. You're right about that, I hope we have a chance to bring him along soon. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u42	Thank you. There are no lines. Any other comments on the subject? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am quite surprised by the lack of a third day of decision on such a clear subject as I think. The subject is really not for or against the green certificate right now. If we have to have this debate, too, right here in Parliament, is where we should do it, and we will probably have to lead it. The topic is not for and against vaccination.......................................................................................................... The subject is not for and against the state of the medical institutions at the moment. We are discussing a draft decision that is legal and logically elementary, namely...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am really surprised at such a simple question in my own sense that there are also deep political statements concerning other spheres of the judiciary, political parties and their state, future coalition agreements and proving whether the change continues or not. My fellow Members, I am really concerned if a large part of the MPs do not understand why the debate is really. The debate, honourable Members, is about whether we follow the rules, because our employer is the Bulgarian people, as our employer, as a worker, employee and citizen is obliged to comply with the same rules that power, whether it is in its capacity as a minister of service, a government of service or on a regular basis, must abide by. That, my colleagues, is the big question. And yes, this is not about any of the other topics that I am already repeating, the third day is being debated in the Chamber of the National Assembly. It is very simple, with your vote to express support or non-support for the rules of the rules that respect all children who have been studying remotely for months because, first, there were no tests, then the order of the health minister obliged them. Now even children, Mr. Minister, have a choice of their parents - whether once a week, at the beginning of the school week, to take a test, or to study remotely. I think that the MPs should be ashamed that we are discussing another day a subject related to rules that do not apply to us. I think this is not a good sign for Bulgarian citizens. How do we expect Bulgarian citizens to comply with laws, to comply with rules? How do we expect as a society together to face a challenge, not just that of the Kovid pandemic, but any other, if we do not follow these rules? Again, I urge you to think about it, because otherwise this will really be a very bad sign to our employer the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. There are no lines. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. You're for speaking, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u45	It'll be quicker if I make a line, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Atanasova, I do not actually agree with you because you did not explain that there is no act of the National Assembly to order the National Assembly and the National Assembly not to comply with the order. There is no such act, there is no decision of the National Assembly, there is no law. There is no act that says that we should not follow the order, which is what I think we should do. Although the President and Presidents of some of the parliamentary groups have gathered at the Chairman's Council, I repeat again to some of the parliamentary groups, and they have decided on their own accord that, without an act of the National Assembly, the order does not apply to the MPs, without it being clear why it does not apply, provided that it is not an act to revoke the Minister's order. In this regard, I believe that everyone here in this room must obey the order, and everyone here in this room must have a green certificate. Those who don't, for me, are trespassers of the Minister's order. Isn't that right, Minister? Because it's like a store where the manager and owner get together and decide that this store won't comply with the minister's orders. Would that be a good reason for your authorities not to fine visitors to the store, Mr. Minister? I don't think so. If I'm right so far, have you checked which of the MPs have a green certificate? Those who don't, did you fine them? Why fine Bulgarian citizens who go around the shops without a green certificate if you catch one? And at the same time, I'm sure that here in this room, there's a lot of intruders and you don't fine them. Please, Minister, answer: will you do a check? Here you are in the Chamber, come to the stand and answer me: will you do a check on the intruders in the Chamber and give them fines? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u46	For a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I wouldn't take a line, but Mr. Dobrev's insolence has provoked me. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yes! His insolence provokes me to make a replica of your speech, Mrs. Atanasova! You must expect me to mention you by name! Here, I'm doing it. Because you wanted us to explain things simply, to say them again plainly: the requirement for a green certificate cannot presuppose visiting at work. The National Assembly is a working place for us, Mrs. Atanasova! This is not a mall or restaurant where you have temporarily come for a walk, have a cup of coffee. And since yesterday you are talking about an example that we are giving, what example did your leader set when he came out and said that Bulgarians are vaccinated with expired vaccines?! Is this your contribution to improve the vaccination process in Bulgaria?! Is this your contribution to the good treatment of people to the pandemic... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u48	Colleagues, let's talk about the remote control.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u49	So I ask you very much, when you talk, stop demagogy and stop with these imaginary arguments that you draw from your sleeve. [[Replication by MP Desislava Atanasova. Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u50	Yes, a personal explanation, Mr. Dobrev. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Dimitrov.]] Are you for a line, excuse me? Okay, here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I am amazed that you claim that the debate here in this case is about whether or not the Rules are respected? The debate here on this point, as the President of yesterday has tried ten times and more to explain, is regarding the remote vote. What colleague Zarkov said was that in this case, additional rights are simply required to be delegated in relation to participation in the meetings, not to debate who followed the rules. And I, Mrs. Atanasova, would be extremely grateful to you, however, if you could tell me which rules violate the Members of the National Assembly in this case? If you do not know, you obviously do not know, that is why our legislation has been so in the last 12 years, the National Assembly is not a public building. In order to be declared a public building, you should amend a number of laws and the NSO people do not stand at the door and restrict citizens' entry. If we all declare the National Assembly a public building, we will have to ensure the access of every Bulgarian citizen and those who stand outside and claim that we are murderers, to claim this here, inside the Chamber. So the rules suggest a green certificate for public buildings. In the present case, the National Assembly is not a public building at all, given that the rules are not violated by anyone. I also enter the mall with a certificate, in the cafe with a certificate and anywhere where it is vitiated in the order, I enter with a certificate such as any Bulgarian citizen and at my place of work, as the colleague said, I also come with a certificate. [[Sighs: ♪ The Time, the Time! ♪]] So please explain to the Bulgarian citizens what rule violates the MPs by coming to work at the National Assembly? Thank you. Only, I apologize, and we, from "Democratic Bulgaria" we will submit on purpose a solution with which we can debate precisely the subject regarding the green certificate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u53	So let's not waste time and vote because people who are quarantined can't participate in our work while we shift the subject and talk about things...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u54	Mr. Dimitrov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u55	...who aren't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u56	...fourty seconds!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u57	I apologize. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u58	For the doppelganger, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, not that I am surprised by the level, but in order to educate you [[noise]] , I will only remind you, and it is good that Mr. Katsarov is here in the Chamber that there is an Order No RD-01-973 of 26 November 2021. In this order, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the entire organization is described in all objects in the country where anti-epidemic measures are introduced. I repeat again specifically for my colleague from "There is such a people" in terms of employers I read. 31, Mrs. Vassileva: Workers in medical institutions, complex oncology centers, dialysis centers, hospices, homes for elderly people..... and so on, organize the working process by allowing only staff with valid documents for vaccination, illness or research within the meaning of this order........................................................................................................................................... 31, I respect you. If you want me to translate what that means? That a doctor, a nurse, a nurse to enter to exercise his constitutionally guaranteed right to work must be vaccinated or have the corresponding PCR or antigen test result. However, this is obviously very different from all of us here who are exercising our constitutionally regulated activity. In this sense it is another point of the order with regard to Bulgarian teachers who enter their jobs in the same way as Bulgarian children, with regard to the Bulgarian business in which, in order to work, employees are either required to be vaccinated and have a certificate or to prove at a certain period the presence of antigen negative or PCR test. [[IHN lines]] What do you think is not clear? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u60	Quiet, please! Only from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u61	Dear colleagues, I have not assumed that after two years in this terrible pandemic, after thousands of lost lives [[high-pitched noise and IHN lines]] We will have a debate and you will have the confidence to align yourself with the working doctors. I don't know what to call that, but by no means can it be...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u62	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u63	...a normal behavior, even more moral. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u64	Thank you. The way you're holding it, here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ganev, hold on. There's a personal explanation from Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman! My fellow Members, I have been called an awkward man. If you are insolent when you want the MPs to respect the laws and Constitution of this country, in fact to observe the oath they took last week, then yes, I am cheeky and will continue to be impertinent. I will continue, Mrs. Vassileva, to ask you here to obey the laws and Constitution of the country, part of which is the order of the Minister. These orders have to be followed because... [[Replication by National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]] And I don't understand why they shouldn't be ashamed. Last week you swore on the laws and Constitution of the country and this week with your first decision, with the first act of the National Assembly you want to violate them. [[Reply from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva: "Demagozi you are! "]] Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. I asked you earlier to give the floor to Minister Katsarov to say if he would fine the intruders in this room. I demand that you give the Minister the floor again to say if he will fine the intruders. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u66	It's demagogy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u67	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u68	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to take a role in what must be observed in this Chamber and observe it. I very much ask you to introduce some order, because the people who in twelve years have led Bulgaria to a begging staff allow themselves to set the agenda, to give questions and to call on a minister to give answers. [[noise and lines from GERB-SDS, shouts: "Eee! "]] Don't let that happen, please. And let's have some order.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u69	I didn't call the minister, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u70	These people have forgotten that they no longer rule. They don't have VMRO-BND staff in the room to support them, and they won't rule. Yes, here is the Democratic Bulgaria. It may once again be your allies, but at the moment you must understand that you do not manage and cannot set the agenda of the parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u71	Mr. Ganev, your objection in the manner of conduct is against me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u72	...and determine who will answer and who will not. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u73	Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u74	Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2, p. 3 of the Rules of Procedure I would like to put an end to the debate on this point and move on to a voting regime. [[Applause from.. We continue Change....................... A line from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova: "No, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't make a big noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u75	There has been a proposal to put an end to the debate. Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u76	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will do the opposite procedure, because if you read the Rules, which you have clearly done and therefore you have silenced, the procedure for ending the debates applies only to debate on the second reading of bills. Not about proposals for decisions... [[Reply from the National Representative Assen Vassilev.]] Read the Rules now more carefully. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] Not for decision projects, not for declarations projects and so on, or for first reading. It's only for a second reading. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Loud noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u77	Are there any other speeches on the subject? [[Replys: "No. "]] I'll call off the debate then. Let us proceed to the vote on Professor Asen Baltov's proposal to supplement the main text in the following way: In the title of the Decision: post the words "COVID-19" to insert the text as well as the absence of a green certificate. In the operative part of the Decision: at the beginning of the operative part, again after the words "COVID-19" to add the text as well as the lack of a green certificate. And in point 1: "after the words "COVID-19" again to put the text. "And the lack of green certificate." Dear colleagues, we are going to vote on Professor Asen Baltov's proposal. Vote. Vote 193 MPs: 77 against 99, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We're listening, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u78	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Resurrection Group, I'd like a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u79	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u80	Due to a technical error in the vote itself on our part. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u81	Okay. It's a re-vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And the other day, we were rethinking Mr. Dilov's proposal. Vote. Vote 195 MPs: 77 against 102 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Tonev, for an explanation? Yeah, come on in. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u82	People's representative Anton Tonev voted against. [[Noise and lines.]] He wasn't involved in the debate. You're entitled to a negative vote. For an explanation of a negative vote, please, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We've been debating something that's not on the agenda for the second day. I took the floor to explain why I voted against. I voted against, as well as most of our parliamentary group, because the item on the agenda only indicates what the rights for remote voting will be. The attempt to shift the debate in another direction indicates quite other things. We're all green certificates, we're all vaccinated, we all support this certificate. We continue to change. We were the first political party to make a proposal to create a regional certificate based on antibody levels. But this debate on the attitude of the National Assembly should be held at a separate point, probably next week. That is why we have taken the liberty of voting against it so that we do not turn the National Assembly into a home office and leave the debates here live. As you can see, they are carried out with a large dose of charge. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. Honourable Members, please now proceed to the vote on the main text proposed by a group of MPs from the Parliamentary Group. Please, vote mode. Vote 192 MPs: 155 against 19, abstention 18. A decision to adopt Rules for remote participation in the meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19, has been adopted. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] For an explanation of a negative vote, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have two lines. I didn't say anything. Mr President, honourable Members, of course I have not voted against allowing quarantined Members to participate online in Parliament meetings. And in the framework of this long debate that is being held here, we have very clearly said what we think about the attitude of the MPs to compliance with the rules on green certificate. This was the reason why I voted against because there was no proposal that was rejected by you. What I can say from now on is that in a subsequent debate on the green certificate, our position on it will be reviewed. We insist, since it will not apply to this room, that it does not apply anywhere. I hope that in subsequent debate you will also do this to be like all the other people in this country. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to read a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of ARRANGEMENT, and I would like to announce that we have not had a catharsis since yesterday In recent months, our country has been in an ever-growing crisis, a political crisis, a health crisis, but also an economic crisis, which directly reflects increasingly negative on the low incomes and the uncertain livelihood of Bulgarian citizens. We are all watching as we grow headlong upward in recent months in broad amplituds electricity prices for companies twice in the last two months. They grow up and fuel prices are around 50% for liquid fuels in the last six months. And as a natural consequence, they inevitably began to grow up and food prices needed. They even surpass European levels already. All this in a situation of inadequate and illegal restrictions imposed on citizens and businesses by the executive. Citizens are limited to visiting commercial sites without so-called green certificates. [[a line from MP Desislava Atanasova]] Traders in the restaurant and tourism industry are almost daily terrorized by regional health inspections and other public authorities requiring them not to work if their employees and customers are not vaccinated and do not have such certificates and employers oblige their workers to vaccinate and fire employees who do not have vaccination or certificates on a daily basis. All these above-mentioned trends are for a continuing increase in prices. And it is not clear to anyone whether or when it will stop. Small companies are struggling because of the increasingly expensive current and rising prices of raw materials and materials, while citizens are worried about an additional increase in the price of electricity for the household since January 1st, which, along with the more expensive gas and steam, will significantly increase the number of Bulgarians living below the poverty line. This is particularly tangible in smaller settlements where incomes are significantly lower than those in the capital city, but people's expenses are the same. They're no smaller. This environment of inadequate and illegal restrictions and restrictions for citizens and businesses by the executive, combined with the steep rise in raw materials and fuel prices, inevitably leads the country towards a very severe upcoming winter, the survival of which for many people is not at all clear. We are worried that so far the caretaker government, whose representatives we have here today, is doing nothing to ease the tightening yoke around citizens and the increasing costs of business despite the worst prospects in the nearest period. We are also concerned that some of the parties declaring a change in favour of the people, as if they are neglecting this topic at present, driven by political bargaining among themselves with regard to coalition agreements and formulas for the distribution of ministerial posts, while the Bulgarian people are obviously struggling, waiting to distribute the state sofra. Therefore, we in the parliamentary group of a party are asking for urgent measures to be taken by the executive, as well as for legislative measures to reduce the financial burden on Bulgarian households, on the one hand, and to help small and medium-sized businesses survive in this unregulated and uncontrolled situation of free rise in all prices, which we believe can be done by removing the restrictions on businesses killing small and medium-sized companies; by reducing and removing VAT for certain goods and services; and with direct financial assistance for the poorest Bulgarian citizens. Such measures should, in our view, be included in the draft budget for next year, as the economic problems and irregularities caused by the GERB government and the so-called Patriots, both working governments, will inevitably be transferred in 2022, even if they are reacted to in an urgent manner at the moment. As an organization whose policy is directed directly towards Bulgarian citizens, we cannot say here our concern that if at this moment urgent measures are not taken immediately to support Bulgarian households and working companies, then very soon the government, the future governors, will be forced to face the public discontent of thousands of poor and hungry people receiving 300 levs. pension and giving 200 of them for electricity and the remaining 100 leva. for medication. They will face the public discontent of thousands of working Bulgarian citizens who receive 700 BGN. salary in Bulgaria and barely manage to feed and provide warmth for their families. They will also face the thousands of workers left on the street because of mass cuts in companies to reduce costs due to high prices. All this while more Bulgarians continue to emigrate because of the deteriorating economic situation in Bulgaria. In order to avoid this unholy, but unfortunately, very likely scenario, we from the AGE insist that the state immediately enter into its social function and reach out to citizens and businesses to preserve them and show them that institutions can be in their place to protect them and help them in difficult times where they are placed not of their own will. We believe that this is the only way to restore trust in institutions, which has been suppressed in recent decades in favour of private economic interests colored in one or another party color, or directed towards one foreign embassy or another. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. We are done with item three of the Programme for this week. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First of all, I would like to inform you of written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 3 to 9 December 2021. Written responses were received from: - Deputy Prime Minister Stefan Yanev on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Galab Donev on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Service Assen Lichev on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Minister Georgi Panayotov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Staff Minister Stella Baltova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Service Hristo Bosukov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of State Ivan Demerdzhiev on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev. In today's parliamentary control we will listen to the Minister of Defence Georgi Panayotov and he will answer a question from the MP Hristo Georgiev Gajev about the position of the Ministry of Defence on gender equality in the Bulgarian Army. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u89	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the caretaker government! Today, December 10, 2021, we mark the International Human Rights Day. Seventy-three years have passed since the UN General Assembly adopted a Universal Declaration of Human Rights Since today in Bulgaria outside this Chamber there are people who want to engage in politics and freely deal with words such as democracy and rights and freedoms, I will allow myself to recall five short but very important texts of this declaration, namely: Art. 2. Everyone has the right to all rights and freedoms proclaimed in this declaration, without any differences based on race, color, sex, language, religion, political and other views, national or social origin, material, social or other situation. Art. 5. No one shall be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Art. 9. No one should be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile. Art. 12. No one should be subjected to arbitrary interference in his personal life, family, residence, correspondence, or invading his honor and good name. Everyone has the right to protection from the law against such interference or abuse. Finally, art. 30, which is key to the interpretation of the entire declaration, namely: 30. Nothing in this declaration can be interpreted as conferring a right on a State, group or person to engage in any activity or to carry out acts aimed at destroying the rights and freedoms proclaimed therein. We at the DPS today. 73 years after the adoption of this declaration and 31 years after the coming of democracy in Bulgaria, we call on each of us to take account of where we are on the world map of civilization, democracy and tolerance. You can find the declaration anywhere you want. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Gazhev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I will first make a procedure in the manner of conduct and it is not related to the previous declaration or the debate today, but is related to a notice made by you. This is about the following: on Wednesday, you explained how information about the Law on Defence and Armed Forces and the Law on the Passage and Residence of Foreign Forces on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria was received. These are routine information provided by the Ministry of Defense for foreign troops who come to a training in Bulgaria or pass through, and for Bulgarian troops who respectively go to study abroad, and you announced that they will be sent to the electronic mails of the MPs. My request is, as by today's date, two days later, this e-mail reference has not yet arrived, to create the necessary organization and ultimately to receive them within the week. That was my procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u92	Thank you. I'll set up an organization for that. Now, come on in for the presentation of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u93	Now I'm getting to the point. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the previous National Assembly, you and I have had the opportunity to debate on many of the topics of parliamentary control. Unfortunately, this may be the last parliamentary control we will have with this composition of a government, and next week is expected to be something else. We had many things we could talk about from covering up some incidents and questions that I had asked in August, through strange political decisions, so should I not even tell some of the deals that I had signaled over time, and I am curious to see what reactions you have taken about this. But the topic today is a little different and it is related to one of your statements from November 1st, if I'm not mistaken. I am referring to the declaration that is uploaded to the Ministry of Defense's website on equality between men and women in the armed forces. There are many things that have been done in law and regulation over the years, and they have had their effect. I remember, for example, when I was involved in the part that was one of the last restrictions for women soldiers within the Air Force, that when they dropped out, what resistance and what battle it was to happen. In the end, I would like to give you the opportunity, with facts, to defend the position expressed in this declaration, I hope, namely, to provide some information about the number or percentage of the number of female servicemen who are actually in command, i.e. really leaders in the armed forces, and also how many female servicemen have actually passed the General Staff Academy of Training for senior officers, which means that they will still be able to grow in merit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u94	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Minister, for a response within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gajev, first of all, I will allow myself to correct the question, as you have formulated it in writing, which states, quote: "How many women soldiers are currently in command in the Bulgarian Army and how many of them are in combat units? First of all, there is a terminological inaccurateness because there are no combat units in the Bulgarian Army, but there are military formations, Mr. Gajev. Secondly, no differentiation should be made between the Bulgarian Army and the so-called military units, which are actually military formations and this is the same thing. "The military formations are part of the Bulgarian Army. You were Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defense and you should know that. I'm essentially going to give you an answer in both numbers and percentages. Currently, the women soldiers in the armed forces are 4606, representing 17% of the total type of servicemen. This is one of the highest rates among NATO member states. I repeat, one of the highest, and perhaps we are second or third after the NATO member states, by number of military women in the armed forces, in the Army. In command positions, I mean commander, deputy commander, chief, deputy chief, 697 female servicemen have been appointed, which is 10% of the total number of command posts in the armed forces. Women soldiers are appointed not only in the military formations of the armed forces, but also in the composition of the multinational formations in international organizations on the territory of the country, as is the commander of the national mobile module of the NATO communication and information system, the commander of this formation is a woman. In addition, senior military schools also have female commanders, for example, at Varna High Naval School, the commander of the student battalion is also a woman. But these are just some of the examples. The regulatory framework governing the execution of military service does not contain restrictions or a deliberate requirement to hold positions by men or women. Military personnel are appointed to posts which are designated in the classification of the positions in the Ministry of Defence and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. The classifier was adopted by a decree of the Council of Ministers and does not contain any gender differentiation. On the second question, how many women of service have graduated and are currently trained in General Staff Courses for senior and senior officers' rank, there is still no need to correct General Staff Courses since 2012, Mr. Gajev. However, since 2012 it has been required that officers acquire an education degree in a professional field of military work in the specialty of the Strategic Management of Defence and the Armed Forces in the Military Academy.Georgi Stoykov Rakovski..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Such training for general posts has passed three female servicemen. Training in a strategic course is required to be promoted in the military capacity and 21 female servicemen have passed such training. The acquisition of a Master's degree is required for the assignment of the first senior officer's title. Such training has completed 106 female servicemen. And in summary of the question, I inform you that in the armed forces, the women of senior officer ranked 159, passed the necessary training, as senior officer ranked between Major and Colonel, that is, Major, Colonel, Colonel. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", ICN and SG.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u96	Thank you, Mr. Panayotov. Mr. Gazhev, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I accept the technical remarks, they are. Sometimes mistakes occur in writing in speed so that the time limits can be reached from the formation of parliament to today's parliamentary control, but there is nothing to concern you with the problems of the Rules of Organisation and Activity. Regarding the data you have pointed out, yes, there are really no legal or regulatory obstacles or differentiation in the positions for men and women, but here the question is whether there is one so-called in the terminology glass glop, i.e. informal obstacles to taking up a position and informal resistances on the construction of a professional career by women servicemen. By the way, this is not only for our armed forces, but there are similar ones in many other countries that are relevant NATO members, as well as in the civil sector. The very fact that from over 4,000 three people and here we are talking not about this year, but in general, have graduated from higher education with an officership and 103 are senior for the entire period, for so many years is also a signal on which to think. But this conversation will now have to be conducted over the forty-seventh National Assembly to see if there is really such a glass hoop and whether, although legally and legally, all acts have been framed according to standards in order to avoid gender inequality, but there are informal criteria that formally discriminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Minister, will you take advantage of your right to dodge? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u99	Thanks again, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gazhev, not only does there not have a glass lid, but has been ordered to conduct a deliberate study on the role and place of women in the Bulgarian Army and in the armed forces. According to the results of this study, which is still being analysed, we have found that there are actually trends towards positive discrimination. You know what I mean? I mean, women in service sometimes have more rights than men in service, so there's no glass cover. Even on the contrary, there are absolutely no obstacles in the Bulgarian Army, nor in the Ministry of Defence, nor in the higher military institutions, and I have just quoted examples that women soldiers, including women, are commanders of students' battalions, that is, women are absolutely equal to men. There are certain tasks that require certain specific physical characteristics of the human body. In the Army, it's not just the Army. For now, we, if you're referring to fighter pilots, don't have a female fighter pilot, but it's not because women don't have the right to become fighter pilots, but because men's human body is perhaps better suited for this complex activity. I simply can't think of anything else, but once again: the percentage of women servicemen in the Bulgarian Army is second or third among the countries of NATO. We are an example in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u100	Thank you, Mr. Panayotov. We have no further questions for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions asked to Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov. Question from the National Representative Assen Baltov concerning a procedure for the purchase of rapid antigen tests. Here you are, Professor, for a statement of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Katsarov, with your coming to power as minister of service the Bulgarian society expected in the field of health, I quote: "Sustainable, predictable and competent management under the conditions of the pandemic." For nearly seven months, we have witnessed the opposite. And so that I'm not naked, I'm going to give a few examples. First, Bulgaria is the first in death with the most deaths in the fourth wave, namely until today 11 300. Secondly, you have stopped the so-called energy of the vaccination process under the pretext of giving the adults an advantage that has affected the young, and the growth of the vaccinated elderly has by no means increased. This is also proved by the middle age of the deceased countrymen. Third, your greatest pride is the Pandemic Action Plan. You didn't hesitate, and you broke it first. Thanks to your order you first imprisoned the students and parents had to prepare the children for online training within 14 hours. The lack of adequate and competent actions left students from V to XII classes of online training for more than five weeks. In this regard, it is also my question. A call was published on the pages of the Ministry of Health dated 3 November 2021, to all interested parties and to the draft contract concerning the conclusion of a contract for the delivery of rapid antigen tests to carry out an individual non-invasive examination for SARS-CoV-2 for the purpose of screening students and conducting the learning process presently. Why is the published model of a contract changed, where the penalty is from 0.5% for the delay of the day, and companies with the lowest price at the second invitation are given to sign a contract with 10% penalty? On what basis and what did you impose a requirement for more than 75% expiration date of the tests, and their actual use is foreseen within a month of delivery? What is the loss for the State after the refusal of these companies to enter into a contract with the Ministry of Health and how long after the agreed deadline have been delivered the tests by the companies with which a contract has been concluded? When carrying out the procedures, have they received at the Ministry of Health opinions, special opinions or other written opinions of experts involved in the working groups on the conduct of the procedure, and if so, what are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u102	Thank you, Professor Baltov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Baltov, thank you for the question. There's actually four of them. The first one. The penalty was changed to 5% and not to 10 at the second invitation to protect the state interest. Because at the first invitation, some companies made contracts and didn't deliver tests. In order for this not to happen again, as we need the tests quickly, we increased the penalty and then the companies delivered the tests after they concluded the contracts. The requirement for 75% expiry date of the tests is a standard requirement for such a procedure. It's about tests for children. There is no reason to reduce standard requirements when it comes to children's health or could affect children's health. What is the loss of the state from the contracts concluded? We cut the price when concluding the contracts three times the estimated price of the tests. The decree of the Council of Ministers gave us funds to buy 1.5 million tests. We have negotiated and purchased 4.7 million tests three times more, with the same money, so we have provided tests for the children at least until mid-January. So the state has only gained from the way the orders were carried out. Are there any special opinions received from people related to the conduct of the orders? There are two such opinions from Commissioners on one of the four invitations. They relate to the fact that the samples, which are a condition to participate in the tender, are made available at the opening of the tenders, one of the companies did not provide these samples within the time limit set in the invitation. She delivered the samples later. Two of the Commission's members considered that this did not violate the rules and expressed such an opinion, the other seven considered that it infringed the rules after they were not submitted within the prescribed time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Professor?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, Minister, the facts show that after the first failed order, for which we know that 200,000 tests were not delivered in time and the company disappeared, you have illegally changed basic indicators in the contracts of a rated participant under the procedure, such as a change in the published template in the contract of 0,5% penalty. It was initially given to companies with 10% penalty and since companies refused to sign it, it was then negotiated with them to agree to 5% penalty. Or the change in delivery time, which at the beginning was three working days, and it is evident that already in the third and fourth invitations becomes seven to eight working days, namely because we know that the tests are mainly with Chinese producers and in order to make their delivery for three days, they should eventually be in stock in Europe, which we know is impossible. These uncontrolled actions of yours were confirmed by statements in the media of your former Deputy Minister Petrov. As a result of these actions, you have inadvertently eliminated participants who have bid huge quantities. Notice, one participant has declared quantities of 1.5 million, and the other participant has declared a quantity of 1 million sparing rapid angiene tests of for the large quantity and BGN 2.59 for the amount of $1 million. You removed them, then ranked and entered into a supply contract with companies that offered much smaller quantities.. notice the price and what the difference is. The new prices at which they are agreed are BGN 3.24. up to BGN 3.37 on a test. These data were also confirmed in the media space by your Deputy Minister Petrov. Our modest calculations show that by doing so, you have wronged the Bulgarian taxpayers in the amount of nearly 1 million. BGN, as a greater damage, of course, was that you created panic and stress in parents and children, subjecting them to unattainable training for a longer period of time. Minister, you have come with a claim of competence, transparency and legality in your actions and decisions. The facts I have presented show that you have not fulfilled any of these prominent priorities. In civilized countries, responsible politicians resign for such decisions and actions. We do not expect this from you because we know what will happen next week, but you have proved that for these seven months you do not have these qualities and I think that I am not the only one who understand it, but all Bulgarian citizens too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u106	Thank you, Professor. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baltov, in addition to spreading false allegations and false news, I would also like to say that your personal dislike for firing you for a mass of violations in Pirogov, abuses which have been provided to the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior should not be the subject of public discussions on such important issues. Save these personal feelings for you. Do not expose them to the National Assembly because you are basically exposing yourself. As for the tests, the protocols, who was bought at what cost. You don't have to quote the media to me. All protocols and contracts concluded, ranking the offers provided are ranked on the website of the Ministry of Health. At the opening of this invitation, which you are talking about, the media attended. At the very opening of the offers! So the procedure was conducted in full transparency, the prices achieved are three times lower and delivered in time. Thanks to this, the students were able to go back to class. Let's not go back on how long they were away last year, not partially, not from V to XII grade, but entirely. I don't want to use this as an alibi, I don't want to even put it up as an argument, I don't want to justify myself with the past and say: it was worse, and now it's better because it's not good. Nobody wins from that. Those people you're blaming right now, they've really put in a lot of effort. I am talking about the employees of the Ministry of Health, with the feeling and with the responsibility that on their shoulders lies the fate of 1 million students. It's up to them when they go to school. They did everything they could. The health ministry has been involved in this process to help the Educational Ministry organise the return of students without this being our obligation. And I think we did the best we could in this situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the second question to the Minister of Health. The question is raised by the National Representative Kostadin Angelov on the issue of authorisation according to the order of art. 37b of the Law on Medical Institutions. Here you are, Professor Angelov, for the presentation of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, in the summer it became known that a procedure for issuing permission has been initiated according to the order of art. 37b of the Law on medical institutions for the authorisation of new medical activities at a new address of the medical institution "Home and Brain" in the village of Kazichene and at the existing address in the town of Pleven. ..Pierre Curie No. 2. I take this opportunity to remind the honourable Members of several facts that have been published in the media, extremely disturbing and disturbing. One of them was a post on the site "Voices", titled: "Stoycho Katsarov " Minister or a planter of "Tchaikapharma"? " In this publication there were a lot of exhibitions that were related to your proximity to the owner of the chain in question. At the same time, the website is now published on August 11th about the scandal about the private hospital of Tchaikapharma. It says here that you, from the National Assembly, have said that you are not familiar with this administrative procedure, and it has already been underway at the Ministry of Health. Also to remind you that on 6 August, when you had meetings with the President, the President said that he expected from you a full mobilisation of the Ministry of Health, dedicated entirely to the organization to meet a possible wave and eliminate any other activities, analyses, estimates, possible permissions of future private mega hospitals. In this regard, please answer at what stage is the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 37b of the Law on medical institutions for the authorisation of new medical activities at a new address of the medical institution "Supreme Hospital for Active Treatment "Heart and Brain" EAD in the village of Kazichene and at the existing address in the town of Pleven, ul. Pierre Curie No. 2? In view of the above, I ask you to respond: what is the opinion of your subordinate Executive Agency on the issue of the permit and what is the opinion of the NHIF on the same case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u110	Thank you, Professor. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, the hospital in question this year has requested two permissions to work. One of them you issued for an additional address in Burgas and the second one was requested at the end of May for an additional address in Sofia. With regard to the issue of an authorisation for activity under art. 37b doesn't really matter who knows who or who they don't know. There are clear rules written in the law. The applicant, if he complies with the written rules, shall be authorised if he does not respond, he shall not be authorised. Things are simple. If the Minister of Health violates these rules and gives permission in violation of them or does not grant permission in breach of them, he shall be responsible for breaking the law. That's the way it is. For Burgas you have issued this permission. With regard to the issue of the permit for Sofia it is at the stage completed administrative procedure and prepared for signature by the Minister. I specifically asked that, due to the unhealthy interest in this subject, all the documents received on the file in question be checked in detail. There were received documents not only from the Executive Agency of Medical supervision and from the National Health Insurance Fund with positive opinions regarding the issuance of permission, but also opinions of the Bulgarian Medical Union with a positive opinion, of the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis, which gives a positive opinion and says that it complies with the requirements of the National Health Card, as well as the Regional Health Inspectorate in Sofia. All opinions are positive. The only reason I haven't given the permission yet is because I want to make sure that everything is okay because of the questions you're asking because of the doubts you're trying to instill. If everything's okay, I'll probably do this today and issue this permission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u112	Here you are, Professor Angelov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I don't know what word to use, but to compare the issuance of an operating permit to this hospital in Burgas, where there is a shortage on a number of profile majors, with Sofia, where there is an excess on, I would say, there is no shortage on a hospital bed health card, is ridiculous. There is no common link between Sofia and Burgas. Whether the interest is healthy or unhealthy, I would say that the interest is very logical and very healthy because another private hospital in Sofia means the bankruptcy of several state hospitals, which is already underway. Three hospitals were replaced by directors, a sufficient number of hospital beds were closed to release such beds on a Health Card so that you could give this permission. In order to make it clear to the MPs, all the institutions you have designated are subordinate to you, with the exception of the Bulgarian Medical Union and the National Health Insurance Fund, where, however, you have representatives on the Supervisory Board and again the state can influence the decisions of the supervisory board in question. So apologizing with subordinate institutions that will give you an opinion as much as you like is more offensive than any logic.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u114	Thank you, Professor Angelov. A hole? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Angelov, the common ground is the law. How is it that in one case your subordinate institutions acted this way, and in the other, my subordinate institutions acted... They acted in the same way under the law. The documentation shall include assessment beds, compliance. It's all been applied. These are organs that put their signature on, the seal. These are dozens of experts who have carried out this procedure, and the other insinuations - if there is much, if there is not much, excuse me, but this is not a serious conversation. There's paperwork there, and he's right. If we are the rule of law, what is the outcome of the situation? Refuse, even though it meets all the requirements of the law, after which the state is condemned, the refusal to cancel and the state to be condemned for missing benefits? Is that what you're suggesting? In turn, I am asking you a question: if a person is applying for any procedure, please abstract from whether it is a hospital, a medical center, whether it is even a medical institution, the law has set conditions and requirements to which, if you are responding, you should receive this service, should the administration skip it and violate it for any other vague reasons?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u116	He's gotta stick to it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u117	She can do nothing but enforce the law as it is! Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u118	He's gotta stick to it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u119	That's how you keep it! If the law says these are the requirements and if the candidate has complied with them, what does it mean to issue the permission?! Is it so simple and clear or are you saying that the Minister should break the law? You're not saying that, I'm sure you are. Don't say that! Don't look under the ox. There's no calf under that ox. I won't. I'm telling you, I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u120	There's a cow, a cow.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u121	There's nothing like that! You yourself are proof of this, because as Minister you have done exactly the same. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Baltov, please come to the presentation of your question regarding the absence of the 6-valent vaccine.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we are receiving reports from general practitioners that there is a shortage of the 6-valent vaccine from the mandatory immunization calendar for children. The 6-valent diphtheria, tetanus, hairline, hepatitis B, polio, haemophilus influencé type "B" is administered when the babies are 2 months old and are generally given three doses every 4 weeks. Why do we ask? Because it is extremely important, if there is no 6 valence vaccine, usually personal doctors can replace it with 5-valent, but once placed 5-valent, then they are not allowed to give a 6-valent vaccine. That's why we're asking, because we think it's really important to have a 6-valent vaccine, and if it's not, why delay orders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u124	Thank you, Professor Baltov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Baltov, there is a 6-valent vaccine in the warehouses, there is an additional delivery for December of 40 thousand doses and planned delivery for January of 45 thousand doses. If a personal doctor has had a problem with insurance, he may contact the Ministry of Health or the relevant RGI to obtain it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u126	Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope our colleagues heard that too. I want to thank you, Minister, for finally understanding why I was fired as a doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u128	Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. Prof. Angelov, come to the presentation of the question about the lack in the pharmacies network of medicines: Ventolin Solution, Nebuliser solution, 5 mg/ml
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For several weeks we have received a number of signals from worried parents about the lack of Ventolin and Pulmicort medicinal products in the pharmacies network. The latter are essential in the therapeutic regimens for the treatment of a number of diseases of the upper and lower respiratory tracts in children and adults. The lack of them in the pharmacy network puts the life and health of Bulgarian patients at serious risk. In view of the above, Minister, please answer what action has the Ministry of Health taken to provide sufficient quantities of the above medicines for the needs of the treatment of Bulgarian patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u130	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Angelov, yes, the medicinal product in question from the specific commercial product of Ventolin, which you are referring to, has very small quantities in the warehouses in the country. The company manufacturer has informed the Medicines Agency that there are production difficulties and that supply will be difficult until the end of January 2022. In the country there are two similar products available on the market in sufficient quantities, with the same generic name, with the same content, one is an inhaled product and the other is syrup. So they could be used as substitutes. As far as the other Pulmicort is concerned, there have been some difficulties in supplying the product containing 20 doses. Of the 30-dose product, there is sufficient quantity on the market. With the 20-dose product, there was such a difficulty and therefore the export limitation mechanism was included. The drug agency is confident by the company manufacturer that from Pulmicort 20 doses will be delivered additional quantities by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Angelov, a line? I won't. With this, the questions to the Minister of Health Stoycho Katsarov are over. Mr. Minister, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions addressed to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova. A question came from the MP Ivan Totev. Mr. Totev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u133	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Plovdiv is the second largest city in Bulgaria and is one of the engines of the country's economic growth. In 2019, the gross domestic product generated by Plovdiv district amounted to 9.65 billion. lv. As such, the transport provision of the city is of paramount importance. Over the years, the logistics of the city has improved significantly. The intermodal terminal has been built, the road Asenovgrad, Plovdiv, Maritsa Highway. Currently it is actively built along the high-speed railway routes and links with Svilengrad, Burgas and Sofia. A part of the logistics of the city is the completion of the bypass of Plovdiv, which is approximately 46 km long. It is an important road artery not only for Plovdiv and the region, but also for the whole region of Smolyan, because it plays a role in a link between Smolyan district and Trakia Motorway. Separately, the road should take the heavy traffic out of the city of Plovdiv, and it is also a major link between Plovdiv and the industrial zones around the city. The economic and environmental advantages are indisputable. Perhaps that is why the site is declared a national object with a decision of the Council of Ministers. On 22 February 2021, in the Centralized Automated Information System in the API profile, an open procedure was published with the subject matter of the construction and installation works for the site: As indicated by the Centralised Automated Information System after the date of opening of the tenders of 23 March 2021, there is no movement under the procedure. In view of the above, please answer the following questions: What is the reason why there is no movement under the above procedure? Are the bids of the participants valid? Is the extension of the tenders exquisite and are they relevant to the price of implementation referred to in the procedure? Is funds at stake in the draft budget of the Transport Infrastructure Agency for 2022 for the realization of the site? Have the estrangement procedures on the route of the aforementioned object been completed, as this is precisely the purpose of the Council of Ministers' decision with the announcement of the site as such of national importance so that estrangement procedures can be carried out more quickly? And I only take the liberty. I guess I've got a few more seconds or maybe they're not worth that much money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u134	Thank you, Mr. Totev. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u135	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Totev, to your question I give the following answer: The road around Plovdiv is 40 km and several km, and the project you ask for is 4.8 km long. This time it connects a road node with road II-86. It is part of the southeast perimeter of the city of Plovdiv and at the same time will be a reconstruction of one road, which is 10,50 m wide and should be 20 m from km 98 to km 102. We are talking about four whole and several kilometers, and this road will continue almost parallel to the railway line and will end at the roundabout at the 14th kilometer of road II-86. This time, we are talking about, this piece of road that we are talking about will flow into the four-wheeled section built last year, you are familiar with this, from the second-class road II-86, Plovdiv - Asenovgrad - will be with two sails, separated by a midline, along two strips and banquets in both parts of the road respectively. About the procedure issues. Yes, the contract was announced in February 2021. There is an order of the former regional minister, Order No RD-11-354/23 March 2021, for the conduct of a public procurement procedure with subject: Determination of the contractor of the construction works on the road in question II-56, road hub This procedure is under examination and evaluation of the tenders and the deadline set for the completion of the Commission's work is 31 December 2021. This answers to the second question: whether the tenders of the participants are valid, yes, they are valid as the tenders are bound by a period of 12 months. We therefore still have a deadline until 23 March 2021 for the conclusion of this contract, i.e. the period has not expired and all the tenders submitted are valid. With regard to funds in the draft budget of the API for 2022, the site is included in the Programme "New construction" of the Agency. Funds will be provided for its implementation. But I would now like to explain to you that we still do not know exactly how much money will be needed, as in the meantime, some other events related to alienation procedures have occurred. By order, notice, No 021569.3 August 2020, last year, the Deputy Minister of Regional Development, the development of a plot of land for the same 4.8 km that we have been talking about has been launched. This time it will pass in the lands of Plovdiv and in the villages of Brestnik and Yagodanovo, which are already another municipality of Rodopi. Meetings in the District Administration of the city of Plovdiv were organized for the event of this plot of land plan. During the caretaker government these processes took place and there we were informed that the connection with the village of Yagodovo was not included in the initial PUP. You know the situation better there. It turns out, for the intersection at the village of Yagodaovo, its connection with this future road is quite complicated, as the future road is done with a medium dividing strip, becomes a speedy road. In addition, there is a crossing of the railway line. You know this territory better. It is precisely because of this in the village of Yagodovo, which is a km from 97 and several meters from the village of Yagodovo, which is about a very short section, that will be made a new plot will be made for an object that will be called the reconstruction of a crossroad for the village of Yagodovo. At the time of the caretaker government, we saw that this is a very serious problem. You know this territory, I've met it, too, thanks to this case. The village of Yagodovo has been developing very seriously in recent years.. We have noticed a lot of new construction, many people are moving to live there, houses, infrastructure, people, serious traffic. Therefore, the village must be very seriously connected to the road around it, and when the road is speedy, the connections you know are complex road nodes. During the service government we found out about this problem. We've made an assignment for this new connection and we've sent the assignment to be coordinated by several ministries. We have already received a statement from the Ministry of Environment and Water, we are waiting for other ministries, and then we will allow the development of a parcel plan for this connection. Then a project will be drawn up for this PSU for kilometre, again, I repeat, 97+900 to km 102+820, already for the entire bypass. It will be announced and processed under the Law on Structure of the Area and Alienation Procedures, when this PUP enters into force, then alienation procedures will be undertaken. Otherwise, I agree with you that these 4.8 km of road will solve extremely serious problems related to heavy freight traffic. Traffic will move out of the city of Plovdiv. This, although a small piece of the road will help the citizens of Plovdiv, asenovgrad, and Smolyan, and Kuklen, and so on and traffic will be seriously relieved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u136	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary. A line, Mr. Totev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u137	We talk more because it's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u138	And there are four questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u139	That's right, yes, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister! I thank you for the answers to the questions, but I cannot save that I had to ask a question from the parliamentary platform in order to get a little more information about what is happening, perhaps a little more up-to-date you should submit information in the media. However, I believe that the choice of a contractor launched in March, and you are currently still on envelope number 1, as far as I can see from the system of the Centralized Automated Information System is too much time. I've also been a public procurement entity, and I know that this is a long time, so here you have a delay. I am pleased to hear that, for 2022, the Agency's draft budget for new construction will include this project, it is extremely important. I didn't say for a reason that he was part of a 40-mile bypass. The second idea why I wanted to ask you the question from the parliamentary tribune to be heard because in the introductory speech of Mr. Petkov, who will most likely be Prime Minister, in it he said that they could not make a round in Plovdiv. So this circle is about the 46km bypass. I sincerely hope that somewhere between the three bridges of the Danube, the five tunnels under the Balkan Mountains and the seven highways we will find time for this circle. If you put it in the draft budget, we'll protect it with our colleagues to get into API's budget. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u140	Thank you. Would you like a douche? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u141	Dear Mr. Totev, I've never talked about many bridges, about highways, about seven highways and so on. So please, this is not about me. With regard to the choice of performer, as you all understand, although a small road of 4.8 km, he must be bound by a serious road node at the village of Yagodanovo, which is also connected to the railway line. So I guess this is going to be a road node at levels. So choosing a contractor to date, without completing the entire procedure, this whole piece of 4.8 km, without estranged procedures, for me, is a practice that needs to be stopped because we have encountered many such cases. We have an elected contractor, no PSU, no completed alienation procedures, but we already know how much it's gonna cost. That's ridiculous to me. Therefore, the intersection at the village of Yagodovo will be connected to the PUP, which was initiated during the previous government, will become a whole piece of road that will do the perfect job to close the bypass and then... Therefore, we are not in a hurry to have chosen a contractor because the public procurement is not included, announced by the previous government of GERB, the road node at the village of Yagodanovo is not included. And that's an oversight. I believe either from the Road Infrastructure Agency and from the people of Plovdiv who were unable to respond in due time, as this territory is developing very intensively and this road connection is very important for the citizens of the area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. We have no further questions for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question addressed to the Minister of Economics Daniela Vezeva by the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for the presentation of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, Mrs. Vezeva! Madam Minister, on 26 November 2021 at a briefing and through an official press release you announced that only in the last six months are certified projects under the Investment Promotion Act for nearly half a billion levs. At the same time, the official register of the Bulgarian Investment Agency shows that since the end of the work of the last regular government on 12 May 2021 the certified investment projects are worth 411 million. lv. For comparison, between 1 January 2021 and 1 January 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. In addition, according to balance of payments data, it is apparent that in the third quarter of 2021 the flow of investments amounted to 392,8 million. EUR at a flow of 1 billion and 442.7 million. EUR in the third quarter of 2021. The realised decline is 72.7%. In the third quarter there is also a decline in investments in the structure of gross domestic product, which directly affects our country's low growth and it is a fact that Bulgaria ranks last in the European Union on economic growth. In the third quarter of 2021, investments calculated by the gross capital formation method decreased by 3% compared to the same quarter of the previous year by seasonally adjusted data. Outside of the investment data from May, the indicator of the overall state of the business climate in Bulgaria is collapsing. The decline also marks data on consumer confidence indicators. Regarding the above and the fact that the data on economic growth in the third quarter of the year put Bulgaria last in the European Union, please answer the following questions: What is the difference of almost 90 million. lv. supplied by you data on certified investment projects under the Investment Promotion Act and those published on the official website of the Bulgarian Investment Agency? What is the result of the decline in the flow of foreign direct investments, investments in the structure of gross domestic product and certified projects again under the Investment Promotion Act? Why is the indicator of the business climate in Bulgaria collapsing and the indicator of consumer confidence and which components are most affected? What happened to the announced by the Minister of the Economy Mr. Petkov received 600 investment intentions and how many of them have realized? What are the reasons of the Bulgarian National Bank to lower its forecast for Bulgaria's growth in 2025? What measures did the ministers of the economy take to deal with negative trends? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mrs. Veseeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u145	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, regarding the question you have asked about the results of the caretaker government in the field of attracting investment in economic growth, I offer you the following information: the investment policy carried out by the Ministry of Economy is related to one main objective and it is increasing the competitiveness of our companies and our economy through industrialization, high-tech production of goods and services, and reducing the regional imbalance in the country. To this end, within the office, what we have done was to make maximum effort in terms of clearing the business climate and the business environment. The indicators that you are quoting, and those that I will quote in a moment, show exactly this, that in recent months the confidence of investors in our country has been restored that it is a suitable place to invest their funds. In recent months there has been a lasting positive trend for increasing the number and size of projects implemented in Bulgaria by both foreign and local investors. A large number of foreign companies that have already stepped on our market are expanding their production and looking for new terrains, new opportunities, even in the context of the upcoming transition for a circular economy. According to the Investment Promotion Act for the period 11 May 7 December 2021 16 certificates with a total amount of planned investments were issued. BGN, which predicts the creation of new 1202 jobs. There are five new projects in the Ministry of Economy with positive opinions issued by the Bulgarian Agency for Investments of a total size of 67.65 million. BGN, and are intended to open another 363 new jobs. Thus, in the last six months alone, the estimated value of the planned certified investments amounted to nearly half a billion BGN. Regarding the website of the Bulgarian Investment Agency and what is being exported, I would like to say that it is updated periodically, so that the information that someone has seen at some particular time is not final. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the total number of certified projects under the Investment Promotion Act from the beginning of the year to 7 December this year is 30 with a planned total investment amount of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning For comparison, 30 projects totaling 719.2 million were also certified in the same period of 2020. lv. You can see that the difference between the two periods is 400 million planned investments. It is indicative that the interest in our country is increasing as an investment destination and the fact that only in the last two months has started and new investments have opened up for nearly 150 million. lv. with more than 500 jobs, high-tech factories in Blagoevgrad, Plovdiv, extensions of such in Sofia and Kostinbrod, and others. This is indeed proof that the work of the office in the direction of changing the pattern of behavior, in the direction that we are trying to stop unfair practices and corruption schemes gives result. [[Private applause on the left.]] As for the growth of the economy, I would note that only a few days ago statistics changed their data sharply on the domestic gross product in the third quarter of the year. The expert assessments that you comment on, published in mid-November, really showed 0.4 years of growth, and the preliminary data is already measuring 4.6%, which gives our country over an average place for the European Union, and within the European Union this is 4.1%, and for the euro area it is 3.9%. Regarding what you quoted about the 600 imported intentions, I would like to say that they are working. Some of them, especially two German investors, are about to make investments. Currently, the Bulgarian Investment Agency is working on 45 working projects with planned investment intentions for about 20 billion. We have no way of commenting on them as realized ones. I would also like to say that when we are talking about certification and incentive measures, we must bear in mind that these are planned investment intentions which are undergoing changes in the implementation of the project itself. If in 2020 we were only talking about one crisis and this is the pandemic, let's note that at the moment our country is located simultaneously in three. One is the health continuing severe pandemic situation, the other is energy and the third is political. Furthermore, I would like to say that we really need to take account of what the office has done within the limits of its powers. Let us not forget that he had to solve many systemic problems accumulated back in time, and comments on low economic growth in the last quarter should rather look into subjective factors given the entire global crisis. We have inflation, which in the last 13 years has not been, and it is due precisely to the severe pandemic, to the collapse of production worldwide. It is also due to the fact that our economies have proved to be extremely connected and at the moment we have more demand than factories can produce. So let us really compare things within our global growth within the national framework. For the period when the office is working, because part of the six questions that you have asked in your question is related to what the office has done to support small and medium businesses in the country, I can say that only through the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" 414 million have been paid. BGN, of which more than 660 million under this scheme alone for small enterprises with more than 500 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. At the moment we have 3467 supported companies with which we have signed contracts. Another 800 is due to be concluded by the end of the month. [[Replicate from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov.]] These contracts have been concluded in the last months. This is what I am talking about, and these over 660 million. lv. are in the last two months when we did an analysis of the program and proved what funds were possible to be compensated. At the moment, we are indeed supporting small and medium-sized enterprises so that their turnover is quite eligible within the framework of our economic development and the situation at the moment against the background of this energy crisis. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u146	Line, Mr. Ivanov, would you like?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. It made it clear that 2020 has had one crisis and during the office you have already listed three crises. Thank you for clarifying that a continuing change has led Bulgaria to these two new crises, unfortunately, and inability to manage health care. But that's not the point. It has also become clear that from the certified projects, from those investment intentions that you said, even 10% have not reached a serious inquiry, and many of them, as is the procedure, are not expected to end. So once again, you have confirmed my opinion that 600 investment projects will occur at a maximum of one or two or three, which is certainly a deterioration of the business climate and less investment intentions than there have been for the same periods in previous years. It has also become clear from your reply that due to the high connectivity of the Bulgarian economy, the world and the European economy, the Bulgarian business climate is now more severely reacting on the basis of the one in Europe. This connectivity with the European business environment and other economic partners has been made in a previous period. Thank you for that clarification, too. But you didn't answer anything very important: what have you changed in terms of this because you announced a lot of time change? Seven months running Radev's office, you are part of the cabinet? Again to confirm and to third the following: unfortunately, investments in Bulgaria, directly or indirectly, are three times less, with 72.9% lower than the previous period of last year. And to stress again, from a crisis that was then health, and a large part of international transport, the economies of Europe and the world, we are witnessing this year's changing three crises. I hope they don't happen again during the management of the office. You also did not respond to an important announcement, which the former Minister of Economics of the Republic of Bulgaria made with a huge investor in Bulgaria - an electric car factory. You may well answer me: whether there is even a brick or what investment has been made because, unfortunately, recently in the media there have been information that this investor, where he had other produced cars, is now pulling out of the market, for me it is worrying. It is at least disturbing that the project was not first worked on, not a brick was built from this plant, which is for the jobs announced by Mr. Petkov. Indeed, what can we expect from these investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u148	Thank you. Would you like a douche? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u149	I'm impressed that the office has created three crises, but I accept your argument. I guess that's how it's supposed to be interpreted. That's the right approach. With regard to investments, I inform you that, according to data from the National Statistical Institute in the third quarter of 2021, it accounts for 14.8% of gross domestic product. For comparison, this indicator for the same period of 2020 accounts for 17.9 of gross domestic product, i.e. the decrease is 3.1% and not 70. The reason for this decline can also be sought in the very continuing pandemic crisis. It may continue to be sought in that we are currently exiting the pandemic period. The attempts of all economies are at least to reach the levels of the pre-pandemic situation. Let us not forget that when these investment projects were created, their planning was not linked to the pandemic crisis, so it is quite normal that there should be a reduction in investment execution volumes. [[Relations from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov.]] Exactly 2020 is the first year these things happened. So let's not comment like that. We have a period of implementation of investment planning that is also undergoing a change in the very period of investment planning. And this is not only happening in Bulgaria, it is happening in all other countries. We observe that at the moment Germany is withdrawing a lot of investments from China a number of such examples. I don't think that's the office's fault either. With regard to the 600 stated intentions for investment planning submitted through the commercial services of the Ministry of Economy. I did not say that 45 of them are being implemented, but that all of them are working, and at the moment they will be entering what they have implemented at the end of the year. That's what I said. And I said that the Bulgarian Investment Agency has 45 intentions to work on. In the next 12 months we will be working on them and working so long because changes are to be made in terms of how we will encourage our investment policy through the recovery plan programmes. You know that there is a scheme that is linked to investment parks, with the way these funds will be managed, with the market principle for providing investment policies. I'm sorry, what was next? I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u150	That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u151	That's it? Okay. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u152	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We have no further questions for you. We thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question to the Minister of the Service of Energy Andrei Zhivkov. The question came from the MP Martin Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for the presentation of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The construction of the Greek gas connection is extremely key. You have seen that the so-called "Turkish" or "Balkan Stream" was built in one year. And the Greek gas connection, which leads to real diversification, has been under construction for 12 years or almost the entire period of government of GERB party. This is the real diversification of supply, the real possibility of lower prices, the real possibility of buying gas under competitive conditions. The deadline is December this year, Minister. I know that this is an inheritance that you're trying to change and solve these problems, but you have to tell us now how far you've come. Is the problem that you talked about missing parts? Is the delay over? Can we say that in December this project will finally be completed? To get an idea, colleagues, I want to tell you this: the Suez Canal, which is built manually, with hand tools, has been built for 10 years! The Greek gas connection, which is being built with all modern possibilities, has not been a fact for 12 years. And it's not a fact because there are people who want it never to be built. They want to keep the current status quo. Therefore, Minister, we want to know December is the deadline: did you succeed? I know it's not all in your hands, but did you use everything you could, this project to be completed, the infrastructure to be done? Now that we need the most.. now we have problems with gas prices, now we have problems with electricity prices, now this project has to be ready. We never needed him as much as we need him now! So I'm asking you on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria: are you going to meet the December deadline? Will the Greek gas connection be finally built so that next year we have opportunities for diversification of supply and buying this gas, which is the cheapest so that the price of electricity will fall, and the price of gas will fall, and the price of heating will fall? That's what people ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u154	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u155	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, for better or worse you were a prophet when July asked me the same question and you said then that before Christmas you would ask it again. As a result of the Agreement signed on 18 March 2021, Additional Agreement No 2 amending the Treaty on the design, supply and construction of the gas interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria, the deadline for completion of the work has been changed from 18 to 26 months. In the event of an extension of the contract, the contractor "Avaks' has submitted a renewed timetable for the completion of construction and commissioning confirming the execution of the contract by 31 December 2021 at the latest, and the date of commercial operation of the pipeline is planned to be no later than 1 July 2022. The implementation at the moment, according to the information from the project company ICBG, which implements the project and in which the Bulgarian state is a shareholder, is for an advanced phase, claiming a degree of completion 70%. However, at the same time, many activities and supplies remain to be implemented, which would take considerable time to implement. For example, there is a delay in the supply of crane nodes equipment and the supply of much of the equipment of the Komotini gas measuring station. There is a possibility that some deliveries will be shifted into the next year. There are unfinished critical activities on the linear part. These are: installation of pipes, optical cable, reclamation, hydrotests, crossings through screw drilling, open-source crossings and others. Essential works are in relation to land-based facilities, the implementation of which as of November 2021 is as follows: the gas measuring station Stara Zagora supplied to 56%, the gas measuring station Komotinis supplied to 13%, the crane units also installed and the completion of 13%, the dispatching centre of 21,8%. The connection activity to the neighbouring TAP operator has not been launched. The information received from the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which is a shareholder of the project company, based on the reports provided by the shareholder, as well as the results of the inspections undertaken by the Holding and the Ministry of Energy show that in recent months the level of work of the contractor of the construction is critically unsatisfactory and the rate of work is reduced and reduced in the last month. At this rate, the builder will not complete the implementation within the agreed period until 31 December 2021, which is likely to also affect the deadline for the introduction of the pipeline into commercial operation, which is 1 July 2022. In case of delay within the deadline for delivery of the construction, the contractor owes a penalty of 90 thousand. EUR per day, but not more than 10% of the total hard price, which is 144,8 million. Euros. The Bulgarian side has made maximum efforts to take the necessary measures to ensure that the construction of the Intersystem gas connection is completed by the end of 2021, as envisaged by the contract for its construction. Guarantees were sought from the Greek side to complete construction at working meetings, to inspect sites at ministerial level in July 2021, to inspect jointly with academic circles in August 2021, including high forums, such as the Sixth Summit of the Regional Cooperation Initiative, which was on 8 and 9 July 2021, at the meeting of energy ministers in Thessaloniki in September 2021, as well as letters sent to the Greek Minister of Environment and Energy on the last 7 October 2021, which are currently without result. In time, we expressed the position of the Bulgarian side by a joint letter of 17 June 2021 of the Ministers of Energy and Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria to "Avaks" with a copy to the Greek Minister of Environment and Energy and the project company that if the builder fails to comply with the terms of the contract for construction, the Bulgarian side will insist that sanctions be imposed on him in the form of the penalties provided for in the contract. It is now clear that the contractor will not carry out his work within the time limit and we do not have the necessary assurances that he would be able to justify proper claims for extension for objective reasons. What gives cause for concern is that the status of implementation of the project, which we are informed of at the moment, shows that it is working far below the requirements of the contract, with poor organisation and slow pace. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. There are lags of key supplies and activities and we are still not close to the final phase of the project. The position of the Bulgarian side at the corporate and institutional level remains unchanged at the moment. We demand from 1 January 2022 due to the delayed execution to start charging and imposing penalties on the builder, as the contract provides. We expect the imposition of sanctions to create guarantees that the implementation of the project will no longer be delayed and the completion of the contract will be ensured within the agreed schedule, which provides for the introduction into commercial exploitation on 1 July 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman! Minister, first of all, I know and I see that you are doing what is possible, but all measures must be taken by the new government. That being one of the first priorities, I'd say in the threesome. This gas connection must be ready at the beginning of next year. Once there is a delay, yes, there are sanctions under the contract and they must be imposed. All funds, including at political level, contacts with Greece, must be taken. All actions at the level of ensuring the supply of the items that are not there must be done. We do not know who the next Minister of Energy will be, but as a parliament we should assign this to be one of his first tasks. Imagine the insanity of the situation there is a gas and energy crisis. Right now you need a variety of supplies, right now you need to import gas under favorable conditions and right now you don't have it! And the new deadline, as you can hear, will still not emerge, as far as I understand from the answer, 70% of the construction, carried out in the words of Mr. Zhivkov, will not be ready again this Greek gas connection. This can't go on like this. And to show the new government that it has a strategically responsible approach, this must be one of the first tasks to be done uncompromisingly at the beginning of next year, and this 1 July period must be respected. Because otherwise what do we tell Bulgarian citizens? You pay expensive electricity and expensive gas because someone 12 years hasn't done their job and doesn't have that gas connection. Can this go on like this?! And if here the new government doesn't show another approach, responsible, strategically, immediately, there will be no point in the whole thing. Therefore, I call on my fellow Members to hear the answer of a man who has tried to do this work, I am a witness, I have observed it. He did what he could, but you can see that the deadline is set to fail again. This is our common responsibility to the entire parliament. I believe that with very few exceptions everyone wants to have competition, to have lower and more favourable prices and Bulgarian citizens to pay lower bills for electricity and heating. So let's unite around this priority to complete the gas connection 2022. Thank you. [[the President signals that time has run out]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u158	Thank you. Would you like a double, Mr. Zhivkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u159	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-10.u160	Thank you. We have no further questions for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. That concludes today's parliamentary control because of the running out of questions. We are done with the agenda for today's meeting. I would like to inform you that there has been a challenge by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova to avoid the question asked to Daniela Vezieva. After consulting the Conference of Presidents on the contested eligibility, the President will take a final decision on the acceptance of the question referred. The next regular Parliament meeting will take place on 15 December 2021 at 9.00 and the agenda will be set after consultation of the Conference of Presidents. Thank you. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
