ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] First item on the agenda for today: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS FIGHT-RASHKOV ON THE BASIC THING. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE SITUATION OF MIGRATION NATS AND THE UNLEGAL MIGRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR THE PERIOD OF SERVICES. Please invite the Home Secretary. Please come in for a procedure until the Minister comes in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to include the cameras on Channel 1 of the Bulgarian National Television and the Horizon Programme of the Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u3	Is it only one clarification that the inclusion of BNT 1 cameras is only for the hearing of Boyko Rashkov, because the parliamentary control is on BNT 2 under the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u4	No, for all the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u5	You want BNT 1 all day.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u6	Yeah. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u7	Okay. There's the Olympics after all, I'm paying attention. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! We have an interest to give it to BNT because we have called Boyko Rashkov here to listen to it. But the Olympics are running, people can only look at it on BNT 1. Let's go on BNT 2 our performance, and let's go on BNT 1 the Olympics, because it won't happen again. We're confusing the entire program on BNT as well. I think they also have contracts with the Olympics. In my opinion, some of the people want to see the Olympics prefer it to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u9	Mr. Bikov, are you proposing that only the hearing be on BNT 1 and that the control continue on BNT 2 or that everything be on BNT 2?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u10	Everything on BNT 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u11	Okay. I put to the vote, first of all, Mr. Babikan's furthest proposal for parliamentary control and hearing to be on Channel 1. Vote 180 MPs: 54, against 67, abstention 59. I put to the vote the proposal that only the hearing to the Minister of Interior be transmitted directly on BNT 1. [[Replys: there was no such proposal.]] There was such a proposal back from Mr. Thomas Bikov. [[Noise and lines.]] Then we should vote on BNT 2 to be the hearing to Boyko Rashkov. [[Heckling]] Okay, I would like to vote on BNT 2 to proceed to the hearing of Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov. Vote 181 MPs: 170, against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please direct the cameras on BNT 2. We'll start with the hearing. I request that the importer make a presentation of the questions within five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Rashkov, Minister of Interior, from the group of GERB-SDZ, we asked for this hearing because we are very worried about the rapidly growing number of illegal migrants in Bulgaria, the increasing pressure on the borders and capabilities of the Ministry of Interior management to deal with the problem. There's one rule. Security systems in a country work best when they are left to do their job in peace under predictable and clear conditions. Mr. Minister, in your time this rule has been brutally damaged in the two months since you became Minister. Frankly, I am amazed that in 70 days you have managed to release 301 employees of the Ministry of Interior, but even more so, to throw over 2,400 police officers in different places in the system. Well, it makes perfect sense for the Home Office system to stop working. On the subject. To say a few statistics on the captured illegal migrants in Bulgaria: the first half of 2017. "1461 people; the first half of 2018 718 people; the first half of 2019 This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) under the European Social Fund (ERDF) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD). .. 429 people; the first half of 2021. "2278," compared to 3487 for the Yes, my mistake is that the increase is not 12 times, but it is still a huge increase, which I hope, but I still doubt it hasn't risen by the July figures that I suppose you will provide us with. If this trend is maintained with this growth, even with a similar proportional distribution by months, as in previous years, then at the end of this year we do not have a good picture. She's gonna be way worse than the one in the past years. At the beginning of the week with fellow MPs we visited the centre of the State Agency for Refugees in Harmanli. There the director told us that in one week of 100 accommodated they grew to over 500. These are the ones who are at the Centre, and they didn't catch a bus somewhere, for example, to go to the seaside. In May and June, a total of 543 people voluntarily left the centers of the SAB this is according to information from the Ministry of Interior. Some of them are registered at an external address, some not. This is why it is also important for us to understand how the Ministry of Interior exercises control over external addresses and whether people who are registered there live in these places. Do you also find out where those who do not have an address registration in Bulgaria are? We were also at the closed-ended Center of the Directorate of Migration in Lyubimets. There, from the second attempt, we were able to talk to the director and we found out that out of 660 places the Centre's capacity on Tuesday, the jobs were 500. Even if the current rate of filling is maintained, very soon this centre will be filled. It is important to know what the management of the Ministry of Interior will do in this direction from now on. By the way, after these two live inclusions of us on Monday and Tuesday, we were informed on Wednesday about columns of police cars passing through Yambol and along the southbound highway, perhaps towards the border. I hope this activity of ours has awakened both you and the Ministry of Interior's leadership, and this is part of a police operation to strengthen the border. However, let us also remember that we are still living in a pandemic of COVID-19. This week the government extended the epidemiological situation in the country. The danger of him is far from over. It is important for us to know that the health of police officers and migrants in these centres is guaranteed and what measures are being taken for this. We therefore consider it appropriate and useful, without creating unnecessary tensions on the subject, to hear here how the caretaker government is doing with control of the Bulgarian borders in several specific issues. What is the level of migrant pressure and the size of illegal migration for July, however, the month is almost over, I think such information can be provided? How full is the capacity of the closed-type centres at the Directorate of Migration and will additional capacities need to be used? What measures have you taken if you have, of course, taken to strengthen border guards? Does the Ministry of Interior exercise control over the external addresses of the persons who are registered living there and of those who have left the State Agency for Refugees without an address registration? What medical measures have been taken to protect police officers and detainees against contamination with COVID-19? Is there currently a police operation involving forces and funds from the gendarmerie to strengthen and strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Interior along the border? In conclusion, I would like to say that, frankly, I hope I am wrong. It is up to you to convince us that our concerns are wrong and will not come true. Because if they come true, then this prolem won't be a plus for us or a minus for you, it's a state's problem. It is good to take real and adequate measures now so that we can guarantee the security of borders, because this is of the interest of all Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u13	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Minister, to inform the National Assembly of the issues at the hearing. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! The question is, of course, I agree fully, extremely important. It is essential not only for our country, you know that this is a global problem. Of course, you ask with every reason what's going on here at my place. We also pay very serious attention to the problem. I assure you. Even though we have, as you rightly said, for 70 days in the Ministry, we have been making every effort because we are actually encountering the fact that there is increased migratory pressure. This cannot be denied in any case "as much pressure as there was before we entered into our duties as a minister. Secondly, it is known that the Ministry of Interior is the competent state authority to carry out control and monitoring of the state border and at the moment the Ministry continues to maintain readiness for timely response if this pressure by immigrants increases exclusively. So we have this in mind, observing the situation not only at our border, but also outside the territory of our country. I think the facts are known that such pressure is even in Lithuania. There the pressure is 30 times more than in the previous period. They've found routes, they're going through something that I don't think is that famous. There is pressure against our southern neighbour Greece. This is also a known fact. I have had occasion and have held several meetings with the Ambassador of the Hellenic Republic for the simple reason that we have a common problem The migratory environment requires continuous monitoring and we are trying, of course, to monitor these processes. The route through Southeast Europe continues to be busy and used for illegal passage through the countries in the region for the main purpose, you know that, reaching the countries of Western Europe. A major factor that we are reporting and seems to be known to the whole society for increased migratory pressure, these are the conflicts in the Middle East and in Central Asia. Migration from Afghanistan to Iran and Turkey continues to increase. An additional increase in this pressure is expected for one political reason. The withdrawal of NATO contingents from the region, which automatically causes internal political problems. The unstable and deteriorating situation in Afghanistan, I mean, the government's inability and inability to ensure the security of citizens in Afghanistan, to ensure the proper functioning of the country and the implementation of its strategic objectives and priorities determine migration dynamics in Afghanistan. The possibility of the movement of Taliban to receive political legitimization and to participate in the management motivates hundreds of families to move towards the Afghan-Iran border in order to illegally enter Iran's territory. The increasing transit through Iran towards Turkey generates substantial refugee pressure along the Iranian-Turkish border, which is a prerequisite for increasing risks for our country as well. [[Noise and lines.]] Turkey has seen a sharp rise in the number of persons illegally arriving from Iran. There is an increase in the influx of illegal migrants... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u15	Please be quiet in the hall. Mr. Svilensky! Proceed, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u16	Thank you. ...extending to the interior of Turkey to Adrianople District, it became the main point of focus for migrants and subsequently as the starting point for crossing the Turkish-Greek border. Confirmation of this trend is the emerging migration situation, as I have already said at the Lithuanian-Belarus border, where it is found, I stress once again, a 30-fold increase in migration pressure compared to the previous 2020. The concentration of a significant number of migrants in Turkey and Northern Greece is a prerequisite for increasing illegal trafficking to Bulgaria as well. The closure of the Balkan route has required migrants and sewers to develop new models and methods for searching for alternative routes to move to their desired destination, depending on the security measures that are regularly taken by our border authorities. The increase in migration pressure at Bulgaria's border is due both to the appropriate climate conditions during the summer season, which, of course, I stress, is an annual trend, as well as to the introduced relief of measures against the Kovid pandemic with regard to the requirements for entry or transit through the Republic of Bulgaria. A significant factor is also easing measures against a horse in the Republic of Turkey and preventing the spread of the infection there, which leads, I would say, to a more free movement of migrants in Turkey itself, outside the camps, and moving them to the border with the Hellenic Republic and with the borders of our country. It should be noted that this opportunity they did not have in the past year, given the strict restrictions in our southern neighbour as well. According to the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In July there is an increase of 2 times of persons and means of travel at the main border crossings in Bulgaria, which is mainly due to transit of persons for tourism through the Republic of Bulgaria, the so-called gastarbayeters. I would like to share that on this issue I have had several meetings with the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey in Bulgaria, with which we discussed the possibility under police cooperation and, if necessary, their employees at Captain Andreevo's border post to assist in our territory as well, because it will facilitate the communication of our employees there with Turkish citizens, I repeat, the movement of which, for this particular period, is very intense for various reasons. In this regard, as this is not very known, I would like to stress again that our border crossings are currently extremely loaded. Even the leadership of the Ministry of Interior along with the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey visited the border post of Kalotina, where she herself became convinced of the tensions involved, and dropped any doubt that our employees at border-control points delayed the omission of foreign citizens and, of course, of Bulgarian citizens on our territory and so on. In addition, the problem of border crossings, I pay attention to this and I will end it, in this respect our control is not diminished. Then the turnovers are increased, but the control is not reduced because we are encountering numerous cases in which migrants are transported. These are known facts, so that any means of transport in respect of which there is doubt that it is used for such a purpose should be carefully checked.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u17	Your time, Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u18	Is the time running out, Madame Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u20	I'll wait for the questions to go on then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u21	Thank you. We begin with the first round of questions to the Minister. There is such a people? Here you go, Mr. Radulov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u22	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I'll put the questions without the preamble they're important, you'll find out right away. Really, the migrant pressure is increasing, it can't be, you know what's going on in Afghanistan. On top of that, this year the poppy harvest is weak, so there will be an influx through Bulgaria to Western Europe. That's why my questions are the following. I have had information from February this year, which, I admit, is unverified that most of the border facilities are, to put it mildly, collapsed, that is, this fence that we are talking about has fallen and some of the sensors and cameras are unable to do their job. My question is whether it really is, or maybe it was, and now it isn't. The other issue that seems very important to me in the increased flows of migrants is: are we ready to talk at the filter points? You all know that we have had very big problems with language contact, because in order for the filtration structure to work we must have connoisseurs in the local language. As far as I know, we still have outstanding debts to translators, but my question is even simpler: do we have Pashto translators, as the main group we expect is from Afghanistan? Do we, of course, have translators from Arabic who are competent, that is, people from mixed marriages who have been or have lived in the Middle East, so that they can competently determine whether it is what is being served, because everyone knows that these people enter the country without passports and create some legend that is generally not true? Are we prepared from a purely security point of view in this way to limit the path of migrants to Western Europe and especially Germany, where the head of intelligence has repeatedly made public press conferences on the fact that there is an agency of Middle East special services that have been implemented in migrant flows? These are my questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u23	Question and question. Thank you, Mr. Radulov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u24	Madam Chairman, Mr. Radulov! I have answered very partially your question about translators, precisely for this reason, so that the process of crossing Captain Andreevo's border can be speeded up or as it is said. We will also use officials from Turkey, which, I repeat, is provided for in our agreement with this country. This will partially overcome the language barrier so that it can communicate more easily with the Turkish citizens crossing this border. As far as these rare languages are concerned, I cannot assure you that they are enjoying those languages. Thank you for the question, we will really need to think about this. However, rare languages many, but our staff at the border crossings are not that many. Nevertheless, we will have to look for a way out of this situation, especially if, indeed, within a month or two of pressure from migrants from Afghanistan has increased so that we really feel quite troubled on this line. You asked other questions from the point of view of Germany, but their service has real informants, so to speak, in migrant circles, groups and others. Perhaps other special services have such informants, I have no doubt about that. There is no country, as far as I know, that can 100% guarantee that across its border it is absurd to cross a migrant. There isn't one! We know very well what migratory pressure was for Italy, too, some time ago, across the Mediterranean and so on, but we, I assure you, are making every effort our country can make in this direction. We are extremely serious and responsible for the problem of migratory pressure. Border lines. I have no personal impressions at this stage, but I plan to visit the border areas next week and along with the regional governors, because, you know, they have a commitment to maintaining the facilities built there, I think, and their maintenance. Of course, I intend to do this soon, as I have already said. But let me go further. In May there are recorded attempts of more than 2500 third-country nationals to cross Bulgaria's territory across the border of our country. Of them, Border Patrol has arrested 113 people this month. In the next month of June, they tried to cross the border and enter the territory of Bulgaria were 4504 people. For the same period 61 foreign citizens were detained, which is a reduction, I would say, compared to the previous month. As a result of all the measures taken and despite the active summer season of annual increase in the summer months migratory pressure in July, there is a decrease of true, little, but there is still a 5% of attempts of individuals to cross the territory of Bulgaria compared to the previous month of June of this year. From the beginning of the year until 27 July these are important figures, attempts by 17 621 third-country nationals to cross the border and enter the territory of Bulgaria, with 16 900 returning, let me say, inside the neighbouring countries, after they have established the presence of Bulgarian patrols and posts along the line of the state border and by the Bulgarian border authorities have detained 590 persons who have entered the territory of our country, that is to say, what is the ratio of 17 621 attempts of citizens to enter the territory of our country! Taking into account the continuing migration pressure along the country's border, the Ministry of Interior continues to implement the measures taken to counter illegal migration. In this regard, a joint specialized police operation of the Bulgarian-Turkish and sections of the Bulgarian-Greek border in order to prevent and cross the attempts for illegal crossing of the border in the areas between the border and the crossing points continues on an annual basis with an order of the Minister of Interior and under a Plan approved by the Secretary-General of the Ministry. Depending on the strength of the pressure and outlined new sections and directions of the border, because you know that they study where is the weaker place for crossing the territory of the country, within the specialized police operation carried out under the Bulgarian-Turkish and Bulgarian-Greek borders are planned and conducted local joint operations with forces and funds of the General Directorate of the Directorate of Gendarmeriya, the Directorate General of the National Police and the respective regional departments of the internal affairs. At the time of the Bulgarian-Turkish border, additional 90 employees were posted and 10 high-pass vehicles were provided by other regional Border Police Directorates. Also on the Bulgarian-Greek border in the border departments Novo selo and Ivaylovgrad were posted additional 185 employees and 15 high-pass vehicles were provided by other border police departments of the Ministry of Interior. In addition, as of 28 July, 150 employees and 35 transport equipment from the Depending on the state of the situational picture of the Bulgarian-Turkish and vulnerable sections of the Bulgarian-Greek borders, if necessary, a readiness has been created after request for immediate inclusion of forces and funds and of the Ministry of Defence in accordance with the Emergency Action Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers due to increased migration pressure at the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria with the Republic of Turkey and the Hellenic Republic. A few words I'd say about these specialized housing homes for foreigners. Your colleagues, Madam President, have visited this has been made public, some of these homes in Lyubimets and Sofia. Yes, indeed there are problems there, and it is natural to arise in view of increased migratory pressure, accommodated in such homes, settled in this sense and the number of persons placed in these homes for foreigners. I would not say that we have an extremely serious problem with accommodations for such persons in Lyubimets and in Sofia, but it is natural that we have to admit that this issue is getting more serious. In addition, it is complicated by the fact that migrants are placed in these homes, they will have to comply with all anti-epidemic measures, because otherwise we know what will follow. Of course, the necessary measures should and should be taken to prevent the spread of the coronary infection, of course, with regard to the employees working there. What is being done there was a partial question also on this line? Medical screening of persons; social distancing as far as possible, of course; compulsory 14-day quarantine for all newly accommodated foreigners; enhanced disinfection measures; restricted access by outsiders. The analysis of the data we have shows that in May the capacity of the two homes from a total of 700 places was filled on average at 35%. I am talking for May, up to the maximum possibilities, and in June there is a trend in the number of accommodations up to 69% of the capacity. In the first three weeks of July, yes, we have such data, we monitor the processes continuously. The first three weeks of July now, the housing capacity is within 70 to 85%. In May, in 2018 the Department of Migration received 54 containers from the mission of the International Organisation for Migration in Bulgaria for the construction of a container settlement in the special home in the town of Lyubimets. The container site has been fully operational and only families have so far been accommodated in it. The capacity is for accommodation of 360 persons. He has already been released for accommodation and for persons who do not fall into the family category. At present, a total of 100 persons are accommodated in this settlement. For information, the Elhovo Regional Centre of the Migration Directorate does not function due to poor material and technical conditions and lack of funding, which was to be provided in a previous period, I will save the details of this issue. Thanks to the fact that the total capacity of the Houses of the Ministry of Interior has been increased to 1060 places following measures taken by the current management of the Ministry of Interior, it is planned to resume the accommodation of foreigners, which will increase the accommodation capacity. To date, a total of 3180 people have been accommodated in both houses since the beginning of the year. In comparison, the data from recent years and the current trend of increasing the migratory flow towards Bulgaria cannot be compared with the high levels of migration pressure from 2015, 2016, when you notice, the number of persons placed in the two houses for accommodation of foreigners was about 27 thousand and 17 thousand respectively per year. In view of the quarantine stay of 14 days in the homes, the process of handing over persons to the State Agency for Refugees is delayed and therefore an increased capacity of accommodation is obtained. With regard to accommodated persons, since there was such a question, naturally, I said I would complete the part. Medical examinations are carried out, a type of test is carried out, access to free legal assistance is provided, of course, with food and sanitary materials. The minimum stay in homes following the measures introduced shall not be less than 21 days for these activities and the maximum duration shall be up to 30 days. I would like to say categorically that the Ministry of Interior will not risk the lives and health of employees and citizens, reducing the period of quarantine. Under a continuing trend of increasing migration flow, the respective Directorate at the Ministry of Interior is ready to increase its capacity to accommodate foreigners. Financial resources are planned to be provided for the opening of additional accommodation in properties and buildings of the Ministry, which are intended to accommodate foreigners. At the Centers of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers on 29 July, that is to say, 1116 applicants for international protection were accommodated, which is 22% of the total capacity of 5160 people. Of course, I will have to focus on closing up with a few important questions that I suppose you will be asking about the measures to reduce migratory pressure. For actions at national level in the event of an emergency situation due to increased migration pressure from the Republic of Turkey, according to a Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers, specific activities for preparation and response by all state structures are prepared and scheduled by all state agencies..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For initial response and actions of the Ministry of Interior and the Directorate General for Border Police with own forces and funds in case of an emergency situation due to increased migratory pressure on the Bulgarian-Turkish border, a total of 1020 employees are introduced with the relevant equipment from: To assist the Ministry of Interior authorities in security activities at the border of the Ministry of Defence, 500 servicemen and equipment are introduced, including a helicopter from the Air Force for air border surveillance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u25	Minister, let us listen to the other questions and you will have reason to answer them again.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u27	Thank you. Let's move on to the second question. From GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u28	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see that there are few people in the room, probably the subject you still don't feel serious, but it's like when deaf people are in the middle of foreplay, they don't feel the danger. I hope this goes faster, we'll go back and get on the ground. You've submitted a very serious report, but I actually have experience and I know that when the administration has nothing to say, it globalizes the issue and brings the reasons out of the country and globalizes them. Yes, it is, the causes of illegal migration and for all these movements are outside Bulgaria, they are caused by different processes worldwide, but in order for there to be a problem, apart from reasons, there must be conditions. As Minister of Home Affairs, your main task is to remove the conditions that would bring Bulgaria back to the list of countries that maintain illegal traffic and sewerage channels to Western Europe. I have been involved in this process in various positions, starting from Director of the SDVR to Secretary General and Minister. You know that this problem has come from 2014, found us almost unprepared, but as a result of rapid action, both organizational and legislative changes have been taken, which, in fact, especially the legislative ones, have given the Ministry of Interior an opportunity to have an extremely serious impact on the conditions for developing this criminal activity, because, apart from being a social one, it provides the basis for an organised criminal activity, which in the sewers sees the possibility of making fast money. The question asked by the previous political formation was legitimate because we have a problem with the translator, but I think once we get to the translator, we've missed the problem. Let's deal with the translator first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u29	Please, to the specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u30	Yes, thank you, but since the Minister has spoken for a long time and I...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u31	The Minister doesn't have a limit, but you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u32	Okay, then let's keep going, let's not take too long. [[Noise and lines.]] My question, Mr. Rashkov, Mr. Minister, is: how and how do you provide the operational and criminal contingent, which is the basis of all this criminal activity, which is the basis for the refugee flows to be directed to our border, to pass, to be located on the territory of the country, to make logistics and to cross to the West? No group will go blind unless she is sure that there will be someone to help her cross the border, that there will be someone to help her...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u33	Thank you, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u34	That was a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u35	You've done almost four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u36	Well, I'm not going out anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u37	No, but you only have two questions. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u38	My point is: how do you provide the surgical-criminal contingent and how many organized criminal groups are neutralized for the time of your government dealing with sewerage? In our time, we helped Greek colleagues because... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off. Applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u39	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to remind you: I have just quoted some data from 2015 and 2016, and I have also quoted in detail the data that we have from the moment that this service government took office in 2015 and 2016 we have 27 000, respectively in 2016. 17,000 people are accommodated in these homes. I mean, in order for them to settle in, they must have entered the country. Now, if we're right, I have to ask the former minister who asked me a question: how did they provide the criminal contingent? But I'm not gonna ask him because it's not accepted. I have come here to answer his questions, but I have the right to say that we must ask the questions correctly, not try to transfer all the reasons, faults and failures of 10 years to the office for two months. The problem is there, I do not say that it is not there - whether there are 27 or 30 000 people, and whether there are 1000, 2000 or 5000 people, it exists and from the point of view of the Ministry of Interior is a legitimate question: how is the criminal contingent secured, i.e. how is it covered and covered by the relevant powers and funds of the Ministry of Operational? Then, when it comes to these phenomena that the people representative Marinov mentioned, he spoke about the sewer work. Well, that's criminal activity. As the operational Ministry of Interior provides for the disclosure of any other criminal activity, so provides with its powers and means and this kind of criminal activity. That's how it works, Mr. Marinov. We have uncovered numerous similar cases of transportation and one part is announced in the media, we all know them. About terms. It was a little vague, but I'll try to get to the point. And the question was that, apart from the reasons, conditions must be taken into account. I can connect the two concepts because the reasons and conditions are outside Bulgaria. These reasons and conditions, which created this problem worldwide, are not located in Bulgaria, are not located in Greece, are located elsewhere. I have tried to make it very brief and clear that these groups, and not small, come from the one side from which the NATO contingent is withdrawn, and these people, including for domestic policy reasons, are headed towards other countries and our country. These are also the reasons and the conditions for having a problem with migratory pressure. But I understand your question in another way to help Mr. Marinov: is there enough conditions here in our country, we are more successful in countering this migration pressure? I tried in my exhibition yes, it's really long, but you've invited me to listen to me and I have to run out of what I want to say. I hope it will be useful. We are making serious efforts and, as you can see, we are even redirecting police forces to the vulnerable places of the Turkish border to the Greek border. I suppose, of course, you all know that between Bulgaria and Greece such border facilities as we have with Turkey are not. In practice, what followed after Bulgaria's inclusion in the European Union proved to be a problem which we have to deal with and must overcome. That's known. We will naturally think about improving our actions and there they will be more effective in terms of pressure, but, as I stressed, they also have appropriate intelligence, learn on their roads and channels where our protection is weaker and pass through there. Some force me to say that the one founded a few years ago, so called by a Bulgarian politician Chinese wall, is not very Chinese. Based on the foregoing, we are anxious to see, of course, migratory pressures. It affects our country, but we still cannot claim that there is some unusual migration pressure on the Balkan route. If we can deal with this pressure at the moment, including countering those who are trying to enter, are returning because we have created obstacles in the border zone, a part of them we are holding back, putting them in the respective homes under international rules and, naturally, taking care of the people in these homes, and as I have very rightly pointed out, I believe we are still on standby when we run out of the capacity of these homes to prepare and create such accommodation conditions in other buildings, and so on. This is a process that we must say is being prepared by the previous government as well. We don't think that in two months we've done absolutely everything that would just be unreal, but I can't understand why it is, I'd say objective criticism wants us to do in two months what they didn't do before. I do not want to throw any accusations at each other because this is a national issue and I do not believe that the management of the Ministry of Interior before 4 April did not take the necessary care as an effort to stop this migration pressure. May I continue, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u41	Continue, but within the question you have been asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u42	I think I've run out of it. I'll wait for the next question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u43	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u44	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! For several days we have witnessed unusual activity by MPs from GERB party, who are circling the centers for insistence on refugees and giving press conferences. The purpose of these tours is to impress on the Bulgarian society how well the previous government has been doing and how badly the current government is doing. All of this looks like a well thought-out and time-based plan, and today's hearing is clearly part of this plan. According to Mr. Gajev's words, the wave in question began in early June. I agree with that finding. My information is the same, but I ask myself, what causes this wave? The explanation for the withdrawal of the contingent from Afghanistan is logical, but the conflict in Afghanistan, colleagues, Mr. Minister, is not from yesterday. If we have such increased migratory pressure, it should be in the Republic of Turkey and not in Bulgaria, and then it becomes clear that perhaps the reason is in the weakened control of the Turkish country. On 3 June, notice the coincidence at the beginning of June and the beginning of the wave, according to Mr. Gajev, former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov made a surprise visit to the Republic of Turkey and met with Turkish President Erdogan. What was the reason for the visit, what was said at this meeting did not become clear. Some foggy explanations were given by Mr. Mitov that they were looking for some electoral voices, although I do not see what the Turkish president can have in common with possible votes for the political party GERB?! The very logical question remains, Minister: did Mr. Borisov ask his friend to launch a controlled flow of migrants in order to discredit the office? I have no other logical explanation for the coincidence of this wave, and I believe that the Ministry of Interior should seek an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u45	Your time is up, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u46	Just one more sentence. Moreover, this behavior of Borisov was not the first time in 2012 the first meeting of the Council of Ministers in Ankara, together with the Turkish government, was held in history. Only a week later, the NPP project was stopped. On the other hand, the Turkish side started building a powerful power plant 10 km from the Bulgarian border. Fortunately, it was stopped after powerful environmental protests on both sides of the border. I'm done. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u47	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u48	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Frankly, I am not prepared to answer that question. Yes, I know, and it was made public, Borisov's visit to Turkey, his meeting with President Erdogan. Indeed, there was no specific news that could convince us why he was there in the election period. And from now on, there are reasons for us to guess. And one of the reasons might be this, but I don't have such specific information, for example, that was acquired by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. If I have such information, be assured that I will hand it over immediately to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. That's my answer to that question. I don't suppose that would be equivalent to national betrayal, someone asking for a huge migratory stream. There are millions of third-country nationals who, if anyone challenges the Turkish country, despite its commitments to the European Union to allow these migrants to enter Bulgaria. That would be, I repeat, equivalent to national betrayal. Whoever challenges and causes such a thing to our country must go to trial. That is the answer to that question. I don't know how much it pleases me, but I also asked myself this question when I saw with surprise this visit electionally. It has also raised other questions......................................................................................................... So I ask those who ask me if we have influenced as the Ministry of Interior on the election result with illegal...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u49	Tomorrow for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u50	Is there a meeting tomorrow, Madam President? He tells me there's tomorrow, tomorrow it's... [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u51	Mr. Manev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u52	Someone's trying to insinuate. It's a common culture. [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Political culture is so...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u53	Mr. Manev, do not engage in dialogue and point out the Minister! By the rules, I can kick you out, but the Minister can't kick him out of the room. I'm telling you that in general. Respect the minister you called to listen to. Thank you. Quiet, please! Proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u54	That we have influenced the election process, for the elections, we have influenced yes, we, if anyone says that we have influenced the electoral process, our influence on the electoral process consists in eliminating to a very large extent the criminal vote. And we haven't given a politician a chance to say after the election: I beat them again! [[Applause from ICN and DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u56	In the manner of procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u57	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u58	Madam President, first of all, I'd like to apologize for replicating from the Chamber. And secondly, let me tell you why I did it. Because, Madam President, you, as chairman of this Assembly and President of the National Assembly, one of the most important functions you have to apply is the unlimited time for ministers to speak here, at least to be used to answer questions. Not for general political speeches, tribunes, media applications and so on. Finally, in the attitude that we will express on this question, we will say what we have in the context of the questioning, following the Rules of Procedure, but now I ask you, please pay attention, if you can't at least subdue the Minister, pay attention to him to abide by the rules of this House, to answer the questions they ask him, and if he can't or doesn't know what to answer, just shut up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u59	Thank you, Mr. Manev. I tried and asked the Minister several times to answer the questions asked. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is no limit to the Minister's answers. In the draft decision on new rules, we have already provided for such a time limit for the Minister, so next week we will discuss it in plenary. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u60	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! My question is related to the so-called engineering obstruction facility along the border with Turkey. An facility that's 235 kilometers is worth 200 million. lv. when building, without public procurement and unclear how much maintenance costs for this engineering obstruction facility. All we know is it's twice as expensive as the similar facility in Greece. And we also know that the former coalition partner, the United patriots, had a particularly high interest in the construction of this facility. So my question, Minister, is this: has an overall assessment been made of the effectiveness of this facility in relation to migrant flows? Does it perform its staked function because it is also known to be overcome literally in a few minutes? And with stairs and cutting with special pliers in a few minutes, anyone can pass it. Moreover, it is known from investigative reports that there are falls in many places in this facility, i.e. it is not. What is the fate of this facility, which was the emblem of the management of GERB for many years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u61	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! It's about the facility. I had occasion at the exhibition today to remind you that it was called a Chinese wall. I repeat, it's obviously not a Chinese wall. Obviously, it does not solve 100% the problem of moving migrants through the Chinese wall quotes. From the point of view of the value of this facility, compared to the value of the same in Greece, I can say that efficiency is not at the necessary level from this point of view, because from the more expensive facility, I think we should logically expect higher efficiency. And since we, as I have pointed out in detail today, are throwing huge police forces, including we have a plan to include employees from the Ministry of Defence, this is the indication of whether this facility is effective, how effective and so on. Since we are talking here about thousands of migrants who are overcoming it, I will also emphasise this is the indicator, the criterion for its effectiveness. More than that, I cannot tell you on this issue, and once again I plan to visit the facility next week and will inform you here, from this tribune, or through the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u64	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Minister! We know that with the announcement of the withdrawal of external troops by the end of 2021, the movement of the Taliban is becoming increasingly active and aggressive from Afghanistan. By the end of the year, according to UN data, more than 250,000 Afghans are expected to be forced to leave their country, with most of them heading towards Europe. In addition to this alarming trend, we already have a statement by the US government and Iraq that they plan to withdraw US troops from Iraq by the end of 2021. Through Iraq are one of the main migration routes. Only a week ago during an operation, the Republic of Turkey's security forces detained 1450 thousand migrants in the city of Van, near the border with Iran. Official information is that in the last six months some 51,000 crossings have been detected at the border of the Republic of Turkey. My question is: do you have information about the status of the level of migration pressure and illegal migration in the territory of the neighbouring countries of Bulgaria and what diplomatic actions have you taken to reduce the immediate migration pressure on Bulgaria, including through common policies of the European Union and specifically the European External Action Service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! Yes, that information is known. It is well known, and I highlighted it in my main presentation that we expect a problem to arise in the coming months and with large masses of Afghans leaving their territory, going to Iran and from there to Turkey. That is known and I stressed it. And we're ready in that direction. As for diplomatic actions, I met with the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey in Bulgaria several times. Her Excellency and I have also discussed this matter. I have the Ambassador's confidence that Turkey will take all necessary measures to prevent these migrants from passing through Bulgarian territory to Europe. Yes, they will indeed look for a port there, if I may say so, as part of the streams, I stressed, there is information that they will be heading through Lithuania. There is even some concern and doubt whether Belarus will facilitate this process for its own political purposes, but I do not dare to deepen there. I would once again like to assure you that we are informed here about this process and are prepared for this real problem, which may arise if our eastern neighbour fails to keep these huge ones, I would say they will already become million, not Afghans, but in general those who settle in relevant places in Turkey, but this huge number of people, if Turkey fails to keep them the same way as it has so far cooperated with its commitments, of course, to the European Union, we will indeed be facing a huge problem. We're considering these options of developing these processes, and I think we can handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u67	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Get up. Get up. Get up. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! I think I partly answered that question. We mean the information you leaked. I stressed that we are increasing the number of employees to counter attempts to enter our territory of foreign citizens, to limit the emigrant flow. We increase the technique that we will have to use to deal with this issue and, speaking on this subject, on this subject, that we increase the living force, the technique that we have directed there, I partly want to bring you back to another question that I have been asked about the reliability of the Wall of China that we have built. The effectiveness is not high, as I stressed, and we are therefore directing additional forces and technical means so that we can counteract the number of employees. If you'd like, I'd repeat them, but I don't think it's necessary for the gendarmes to be 500, and so on and so forth. So we pay attention to this issue and once again I will say: very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to asking the second questions. I pay attention to you being correct with the time you have, because at 11.00 we have to start parliamentary control because of the cancellation of one supplement in the Rules, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise the parliamentary control should be the last three hours. There is such a people. No questions asked. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Terziysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Rashkov! I'm not gonna be very talkative. I assume you remember that on 12 May, when we accepted and issued positions in the Office of the Minister of Interior, we talked to you about the main tasks, the daily tasks that stand before the Ministry of Interior. I introduced you in the most general lines to the situation of public policy and security, and I finally gave you a piece of advice to pay daily attention to border security and road safety. I hope you remember that and take it as advice. I had a few questions, but I leave one that is extremely important in terms of our position on the position of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the so-called new Pact for Migration and Asylum. What is your position on the proposed by the European Commission Migrant and Asylum Pact, and in particular on the proposed mandatory border procedures and screening, on the introduction of a legal fiction refusal to enter for persons already on our territory and on which our government was strongly opposed? How did the caretaker government defend our position against the permanent responsibility of the state at first entry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u71	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We have an external and for the European Union the border is with the Republic of Turkey, yes and west one, the eastern... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Heckling]] Of course, for these two months, we have had a lot of meetings with representatives of diplomatic missions in our country and we have talked about it, and you know what the procedure is in such a situation, with them, including those problems that arise with migration, with the passage of citizens, with the checks that take place at border crossing points, to what extent citizens will have to be checked at border crossing points and so on and so forth. Our position has been, and it seems to me, must be that with checks especially where borders are and the European Union we must be particularly careful. Especially careful! Very often we talk about the role of our country here in the region in this direction, so as was your position, so is our position now. We, as you can see, are not fundamentally changing our policy on migrant issues, and there is no point in changing it, because I think we are doing well enough, and you have done well enough. We also say that in these two months we have not created conditions either to increase the migratory flow or to have other harmful consequences of this problem for our country. That's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. From the BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u74	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, obviously from everything we've heard so far we have an enhanced migratory flow of the Bulgarian border something that we had forgotten for a while. Given the developments in the Middle East, this trend will clearly increase in this direction. The question is how are we going to counteract and how are we going to deal with this situation? In this regard, I ask you: Have there been conversations with Frontex regarding assistance to Bulgaria in the form of living power or technology, given that we are an external border of the European Union and have always responded to such requests from us so far? Is there a willingness and a negotiation with the European Commission to allocate additional funds to meet possible costs that will probably be needed to counter increased migrant pressure along the border, and the trend that is Is there any readiness on our part and on the part of the European Commission for such talks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, yes, the flow has actually increased, I stressed this from the beginning. We are dealing with the problem so far, as I have highlighted many times, and we currently have the interaction and cooperation of Frontex. However, we will, of course, proceed most likely to strengthen the talks with the European Commission and ask for strengthening, assistance, assistance from European countries as a country which is an eastern border of the European Union, at the moment when we actually find that we cannot cope with our own forces. But such talks are in perspective, of course, what and how will be taken, of course, that we are having such talks, including, of course, the costs that will be needed, as our resource is not infinite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u78	Dear Madam President, dear Minister Rashkov, honourable colleagues! Despite the many avoidable entries, illegal entries, for the first half of 2021. 759 people, of those people who tried to illegally cross our borders, are declared by status, according to the official data I have, of refugees and people with humanitarian status. For these 759 people the Bulgarian state has a commitment. A small number of these people will most likely decide to stay in Bulgaria, although the previous government of the state claimed that here it is blooming that there is potential here. Even refugees do not want to continue living in Bulgaria, and those people who are fleeing the war. That's why I'm going to go to my question. What measures does the Bulgarian government take to manage and facilitate the integration of these people? What is the responsible institution for the coordination of this process, since the figures are shameful? In ten years Bulgaria has unfortunately failed to cope with the integration of these people, to give them any chance of development, although not only refugees of humanitarian status pass through our country, but also many people fleeing the war, with professions, with opportunities to give something to our country as a contribution. So my question is: to what extent do we have any willingness to integrate these people, and what are the possibilities of our country at this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u80	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In a sense, the question does not directly and directly concern the Ministry of Interior. In my main exhibition, I simply pointed out for information that 1116 applicants for international protection were accommodated at the State Agency for Refugees, which is outside the structures of the Ministry of Interior. The total capacity I said was 5160, that is to say we are 20% accommodated, that is, persons under the control and attention of the State Agency for Refugees of the Council of Ministers is 22%, in fact what is from the capacity of this state agency. So I am having difficulty answering this question immediately, I repeat, because it was another topic today, but I could, although the Agency for Refugees is outside the structures of the Ministry of Interior, get such information and in a subsequent hearing to provide it to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u82	Madam President, honourable colleagues, Mr Minister! Our second question relates to some vicious practices related to former Deputy Prime Ministers who were in clear conflict of interest. In addition to the fence, the most striking example was: military and policemen who guarded the border with the Republic of Turkey were staying at the motel "The Kozi horn" in Malko Tarnovo, which was owned, if I am not mistaken, by a former Deputy Prime Minister. Have you made an audit of these accommodations since the caretaker government particularly focused on these corruption problems? As far as we can tell from your exhibition, as of yesterday, you have also directed forces of the Ministry of Interior to the border, i.e. since yesterday, you are setting up as well. If it's not a secret, where are you staying? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u83	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! Who do you want us to set up? I couldn't understand your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u85	Since yesterday, there have been police officers checking in for border guards.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u86	Where do we put our police officers? Do you think they're staying there? Frankly, if they've gone to the border since yesterday, I don't know where they're staying, but I'll check and answer in writing. Do you want me to answer that question in writing because I have not received this information since yesterday? But it's an interesting question, and it's very interesting to me, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u87	Did you re-examine the previous check-in?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u88	No, we didn't, as you say we did. But let me answer both questions in more detail. I'm not prepared right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u89	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Minister! In the summer of 2020, the Council of Ministers adopted an Emergency Action Plan following increased migration pressure along the border of the Republic of Bulgaria with the Hellenic Republic. Did this plan have to be implemented, have the measures provided for in it been adequate, and have they given any effect if it has been applied?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u91	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! I think I partly answered that question. With the dynamics of the processes associated with migrant pressure, we change, of course, and our tactic to counter these processes. It seems to me that quite detailed, even boring data were available. With regard to the forces and resources we are putting in this direction, we have increased the number of police officers we are directing there, including other services, not only from Border Police, but parts of the Gendarmerie, including equipment that we have inside the country. And where there is a need to react when the movement of such groups is established, that is, they have already passed through border facilities and located inside the country, so that we can respond more quickly, more effectively and take them where they need to be taken. So the pressure is increased from now on, from these summer months, accompanied, of course, by rapid reactions from the Ministry of Interior. I also pointed out that if we had to, we would have such a plan, we would also include the forces of the Ministry of Defense. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to expressing attitude towards the Minister's answers. There is such a people? There aren't any. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Manev. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Feel free to believe me while I was listening to you, I was very prepared to express my attitude, but now I will have to move everything that has happened as a result of what you have done from this tribune. Not a single answer................................................................................................ Not one! And what you did by supporting the crazy idea there of BSP colleagues that someone went and invited them and called them... The truth is that Prime Minister Borisov, all along with his personal authority, guaranteed the suspension of the Balkan Stream through Bulgaria. It's the truth! [[Laughter]] And these other contraptions are for colleagues who want to exercise in writing fantastic novels. Welcome to this arena, I'd love to! Let's start with the attitude. The attitude towards your answers will be in order. The pressure was increasing. We all know that the pressure has increased, that is not the point in our hearing. The question in our hearing was: by increasing the pressure and by increasing the pressure two months ago, where were the police officers who had to work at the border to prevent penetration in the country? There's an answer, but you didn't give it. I'll take the liberty of giving it to them. They were writing warning protocols during the election campaign! Well, that's what they were doing! They weren't at the border, they weren't working! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Three times you said from this tribune that there was now a plan how you would send them, additional funds, not even the army, not a plan. In the Law, we allowed that, even at the 44th meeting, Bulgarian Army officials could be sent to defend the border. But the fact that there are posted employees is not from yesterday, it is true. But you picked them up and sent them to villages and palanquins to call mayors, teachers, nurses who were involved, who were involved, to go and warn him. But this is the subject of another conversation we will still meet with you. What is important is a few professional things to stop what you have introduced to talk about common things from this tribune. First of all, you talked about national betrayal. Hey, you guys, you're smiling around here laughing and laughing, did you hear what the minister said?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u95	No qualifications, Mr. Manev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u96	Wasn't that funny?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u97	Don't qualify.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u98	So did you actually hear what the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria said: several times I met with the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey and asked him to guard the Bulgarian border?! If you have not heard it, we will pull out the transcripts and repeat it to you again. [[Replication by MP Nikolai Hadzhigenov.]] Did you just hear that? They're guarding our border?! Okay, you didn't hear it. Did you hear anything about Frontex, that we've been working with this organization for years, did you hear anything about them? [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov.]] No, why would you listen? You should know that. Mr. Gokov, I beg you very much, if you don't get punished by the President, I will really then take the attitude in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u99	Please, Mr. Gokov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u100	It wasn't Gyokov. He's innocent. It was Ivan Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u101	Thousands of migrants...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u102	Listen to the attitude of the parliamentary group. They have that right under the rules. I'm going to extend his time with this time, which is why we're interrupting. Go on, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u103	Thousands of migrants, you say, passed through the security facility. And the reference that comes from the Ministry of Interior is 500 people. What's true that I can't remember? What's true? It's not that important. It's not that important.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u104	It's important!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u105	Mr. Hadjigenov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u106	You know what the most important thing is? That we actually wanted this hearing here for two answers, come on, three to make it a rounder number. First of all, are we going to open new centers? No homes, there are no homes, there are no accommodation centers. Are we going to open new centers? To this first question, how much and where? Because in your words, it becomes clear, and from what we've done, going to a place to see what the situation is...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u107	Mr. Manev, your time is up. I gave you a bonus.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u108	Yeah. You gave me a bonus? So how many centers, where will you find them? That's the first thing we want to know, and we'll keep asking. And to complete my thought, Madam President: will you use all your powers and resources after seeing that we went there and two days after that you have already sent all police officers, gendarmers, to do their job so that they will not enter Bulgaria? Because this is what is happening on the highway in Bulgaria....not on the border, but on the highway! [[Shows picture.]] That's from this morning on the highway!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u109	Thank you, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u110	Where is that? That's what we want to know. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u111	From the BSP for Bulgaria. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov.]] A personal explanation cannot be made, since this is not a statement. It is his attitude. In the manner of conduct, if you like? Okay, the way you're leading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u112	Dear Madam President, in the manner of conduct. You should have made a remark to the previous speaker who allowed himself to say that the group was acting crazy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u113	I made an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u114	In another similar case, quote to him a Bulgarian politician who said before a meeting: I've also got the efendi. ♪ Ask him to tell me who this quote came from.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u115	Mr. Zafirov, I'm going to ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u116	Because you're talking about national betrayal and meeting with ambassadors. [[Replications between the MPs Manoil Manev and Atanas Zafirov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u117	Mr. Zafirov, you'll have five minutes to deal with it now. Control begins in approximately 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov. Mr. Zafirov, please take your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u118	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! It is nice to have humility sometime, Mr. Manev and honourable colleagues from the Political Party GERB, because after all the things that were done by the Ministry of Interior, which was like a Spitzkomanda for years of your party, please really have humility.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u119	To the Minister is the attitude not to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u120	And as for the hearing just now of the Minister, we cannot be dissatisfied. And the fact that for two weeks now the Minister of Interior is constantly in the Chamber speaks of the great interest in the Ministry and a great interest in its personality. It is interesting for ministers of this rank to be in the Chamber and to be heard. Much more interesting than previous, acting as interior ministers...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u121	Mr. Gutsanov, I'm asking for an attitude to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u122	Regarding the subject, I am glad that it has also come up with the fence, and it has again become clear whether it is built for the necessary funds and whether it performs its functions in the way they were designed. So once again, it came out in the society, and it was spent on a facility that wasn't built the way it was supposed to be built. And at the moment, why is it so difficult to prepare for this migration pressure that is expected? Was the necessary work done in advance by previous ministers, or is it now necessary for the office and the Minister of Interior to carry out activities that have been missed over the years? And when we comment on whether the Ministry of Interior and Minister Rashkov have fulfilled their duties during the election campaign and people have been called up to sign protocols, yes, well that they were accustomed and good that the bought vote was stopped. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because we all know what has been going on for years in elections.. corporate and bought vote, and pressure. So good that it was this Ministry of Interior and this minister to have relative honesty of this choice that took place. And I congratulate you that you are currently fulfilling your duties in the way that other ministers have not dared to do so, for really doing everything possible for this expected migrant crisis to make sure that it is met normally along the borders of Bulgaria and not feel that pressure in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u123	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? There aren't any. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? There aren't any. Come in, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u124	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for the presence of Minister Rashkov today and for his sincere desire to give comprehensive answers to the questions that have been asked. The subject we were talking about, I think it's important to the whole country, regardless of the colors of the people who spoke out of this tribune. We are guarding not only the Bulgarian border, but also that of the European Union. I was hoping this wasn't a theme that would turn into interparty chew. Turns out he could. The question for which Minister Rashkov was invited today is obvious to prove that without GERB the border has fallen. It didn't work out. I didn't understand how many people from the border police wrote warning protocols to teachers and kindergarten bosses. I'm left with that interest. I'll satisfy him someday. What I couldn't figure out was if the fence had become more stable and more patriotic? How many less people has she managed to stop than before, or more than before? Here's something I found out. The only thing that has stopped the migratory flow is the unearthly authority of Mr. Boyko Metodiev Borisov, who has stopped the Turkish Stream. I thought it was natural gas. Whatever. Borisov's authorship appears to be greater than Angela Merkel's, Mr Macron's, and most European leaders and his naked premiere chest have stopped this stream. That's probably why he also sees Mr Erdogan as a political face, caring for us even after his political demise. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u125	Let's stop these qualifications! Hurry up, hurry up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u126	I said political. I don't mean anything by it. It's good for everyone, don't worry. I'm sure you're aware that in summer, migratory flow tends to grow. I am convinced that Minister Rashkov has no bearing on the 30-hour campaign of Assad's forces against the opposition. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I suspect that it is not at the heart of this operation, which will increase the migratory flow to Bulgaria as well. You have a chance to check it out. What I expect from now on is to look for responsibility and for who will catch snowflakes in the air during the upcoming winter and possibly respond to the invasion of Moroccan locusts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u127	Is there no migratory pressure now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u128	I ask you to be serious and call the ministers only when it makes sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u129	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. That concludes the hearing. We don't have time to start the next hearing. At 11:00, parliamentary control begins. I'll give you ten minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u130	Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 23 July 2021 to 29 July 2021 from: - National Representative Maya Bozhidarova Manolova- Naydenova to Violeta Komitova Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 August 2021; - MPs Mustafa Sali Karadayi and Yordan Tsonev to Stefan Yanev "Office Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria" concerning Decision No 441 of 4 June 2021 of the Council of Ministers. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 August 2021; - MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid to Asen Vassilev "Office Minister of Finance" concerning Decision No 441 of 4 June 2021 of the Council of Ministers. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 August 2021; - MP Ivaylo Mirchev to Andrey Zhivkov, Minister of Service for Energy, Energy Security and Independence of Bulgaria. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 August 2021; - National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev to Andrey Zhivkov, Minister of Service for Energy, for the construction of the Interconnector Greece. A letter should be replied to by 12 August 2021; - National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev to Andrey Zhivkov, Minister of Service of Energy, on the request for resignation of the Operational Management of Bulgartransgaz. The response should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 August 2021. Written answers for service by: - the official Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov on two issues from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Service for Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - the Minister of Foreign Affairs Svetlan Stoev on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Energy Andrey Zhivkov on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Economics Kiril Petkov of two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - the Minister of Staff for Youth and Sports Andrey Kuzmanov on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Justice Yanaki Stoilov on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Georgi Todorov on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Stefan Yanev to two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Staff Minister of Tourism Stella Baltova on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - the Minister of the Environment and Leads Assen Lichev to two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds Management Atanas Pekanov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - the Deputy Minister of Economic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Galab Donev, on two issues from the National Representative Hristo Gajev; - Minister of Defence Georgi Panayotov on three questions from the MP Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - the Minister of the Environment and Waters Assen Lichev on a question from the MPs Stella Nikolova and Tsetska Bachkova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Georgi Todorov on a question from the National Representative Stella Nikolova; - Minister of Service for Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - the Minister of Staff for Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova on a request from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - the minister of service for the environment and lead Assen Lichev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - the Minister of Service of Energy Andrey Zhivkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Service for Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova on a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; - Minister of Energy Andrei Zhivkov on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov. We continue with the questions to Minister Kiril Petkov. The first question to Minister Kiril Petkov is from Desislava Atanasova about spending public resources owned by Bulgarian taxpayers. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers! Dear Mr. Petkov, my question is that you have repeatedly determined the activities of commercial companies with state participation in capital, that they operate with public resources, respectively with the funds of the Bulgarian taxpayers. In this sense, my question is: what are the actions taken by you in this area, which lead to an unjustified increase in the costs of these companies with a State participation in capital of more than 2.5 million. lv. A year? And in this regard, have contracts been concluded for permanent legal services by BBR AD with a law firm, with a precise indication of a person, worth 8400 euros per month and an addition, if necessary, of other experts with an additional 140 euros per hour? What imposed its conclusion and is this a promiscuous spending of the funds of Bulgarian taxpayers? In this sense, it is my next question: what forced the sharp increase in the compositions of commercial companies from the system of the Ministry of Economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u133	Yeah, thanks for the good question. On 22 June, the new Supervisory and Management Board of the BBI entered into force and the day it entered the government saw that on the day before that, the head of the Legal Department and the head of the Department of Crediting of the Bank on the same date had ended the day before the new Management Board with compensation of 120 thousand. lv. Imagine, the new supervision comes, and just the day before that, the Legal Department resigns and gets paid 120 grand. lv. the day before Oversight came in. Once the new Oversight comes in, they immediately look for one of the best law firms in Sofia and manage to save the first week the 120 grand because they manage to appeal the contracts immediately so that this case is not another leak of exactly the same taxpayer's money that you said. At the same time they launch a legal service contest that is currently under way and at the same time they launch a competitive selection procedure between six of the top law firms in Sofia, so here is a very well-invested resource. The 8,000 euros that you said about this firm per month have already been killed by the compensations - 120 thousand, which have imposed the legal department with their departure, and a contest is under way to hire a new legal team in the Bank, and are simultaneously submitted to a public procedure between six law offices. So I think this is the best way to spend this money. The other subject. So far, no man has been hired to state-owned companies that are under the Ministry of Economy. What has been done is: we have increased the possibility of hiring new people in the Statute. And why did we do that? I'll tell you the truth, because right now, what we saw through the BBI, what happened when you fired the old government, there were eight weeks where the Bank didn't have a management team. Thus, by increasing, first, the Board, by hiring potential new capacities in these companies and then firing part of the existing board, we can avoid the possibility that these companies are not without Oversight or without the Board of Directors. Why does that have to be? There are huge problems in these companies. This team can't stay the same way. There's a huge lack of capacity. With only two sentences, the DCC, as we very well know, 630 million three years ago given for 414 dams, only 10 of them have been completed, of which have just been handed over to the state enterprise that manages them; a skyscraper has been made administratively, for 190 million; a signed contract for engineering, design, construction and supervision without any tender procedure, according to us against the legal framework, which I am pleased to inform you that since yesterday was frozen by a decision of the Council of Ministers. In BAES, we found huge insurance...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u134	Mr. Minister, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u135	...big insurance that are not targeted for export, and the National Industrial Zone Company still has no road connection, no good power supply, no good channel after over seven years of operation. So that's why we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u136	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am not pleased with the answer to the first question, because if it is true the logic that to save 120 thousand. BGN, which are benefits, which are probably due under the Law on the Civil Service after the departure of these persons from the legal department or under the BBI Act, it does not make sense to conclude a contract for 8400 euros per month with this law firm. The simplest account shows that if for 12 months these EUR 8400 per month are paid, that is, about 16 thousand. BGN, more than 100 thousand. 800 euros a year, that's over 200 grand. BGN, or 80 thousand less than those funds that were needed in the payment of benefits, you need to spend more in order to have, in your words, a quality team of law firms. Besides, can you give me an update on when the contract was signed with the law firm? Because, according to my data, it was concluded on 1 July 2021, and executive directors Mr. Vladimir Georgiev and Mr. Tsanko Arabadzhiev were entered, according to my data, as such on 7 July 2021. Did they have the right to sign such a contract? Would you hold them responsible for the fact that, without legal basis, they did so, and is it practice for you employees to sign documents before they receive under the law the quality they need to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u138	Thank you very much for the question again. June 22 is the exact date, so you have an error in the date when the new Supervisory and Management Board enters. The question is when did they intervene, the entry of third parties, yes, and they were in absolute power to do so. Once again, a contest for this position has been launched and should be completed within a week by the bank's lawyer. As you can remember, these 8000 euros are not for one person, but for the possibility of one of the best firms in Sofia to enter and be able to help them with this team. As you noticed yesterday, 250 million will be the hole only this year of the loans that have been given. A bank can't suddenly have no managers, no supervision, no legal team. At the same time, as I said, a procedure was launched between the six other firms to see the best price. So we're talking about a momentary action here. Stopping 120 grand. lv. a leak that would have been just another thing that happened, opening up a procedure and staying with the most professional team, which, by the way, just to say, as opposed to the other ministers, I am not instructing the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board, giving them full independence because I have chosen great professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u139	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. We are now moving on to Dessislava Atanasova's second question on the management of European funds in support of business. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Before I ask my question in the specifics, I will make only one clarification that I have checked the Trade Register, Mr. Minister, I may have made a mistake, but I am convinced that if you do a check, the date will turn out to be July 7th and not June 22nd. That's out of the question. On the second issue, the European funds in support of the business are being managed. Decision No 140 of 19 February 2021, i.e. of the old Council of Ministers, gave consent to the government of Boyko Borisov, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" to enter into contracts for grants up to 211 million. 379 thousand. 100 leva. above the defined budget of the Operational Programme. The decision also envisioned that the funds would be recovered from the REACT EU's funds, aiming at a timely response to the business's expectations to take urgent action to support the companies affected by the crisis, providing that all funds should be used for liquidity support and working capital, with the aid being granted. All this was agreed with the nationally represented employers and trade unions and so far, i.e. until the beginning of the management of the caretaker government, all the measures implemented by the Ministry of Economy, as well as by the government, were aimed at reaching out to all the damaged companies that have applied for support and the same meet the criteria and have proper documents. On your proposal, the Council of Ministers by Decision No 500 of 12 July 2021...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u141	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u142	I'm done. ...changes the previous decision by reducing the resource from 211 million to almost 146 million and deciding to launch the implementation of a guarantee financial instrument, portfolio guarantees, amounting to up to 100 million above the defined budget of the Operational Programme. Outside of the above, the Prime Minister submitted and adopted Decision No 501 on the same day approving a draft amendment to the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" by entrusting the submission and approval to the European Commission. In relation to what has been said, my question is as follows: what is the total resource of the funds that are directed or intended to target the Fund of Funds and other financial instruments, with what resource is the Operational Programme in common and are funds foreseen above the defined budget of the Operational Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u143	How do we do with a minute? Should we add one minute to the minister, or are you going to take one minute out of the second part?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u144	Add, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u145	No, we're gonna take a minute out of your second half. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u146	It's the question that matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u147	Yeah, yeah, I'm reporting that it's important and that you're gonna have to hear what you're asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u148	Yes, thank you. It's a really important question. I'll try to answer it very quickly. The Fund of the Funds of a total amount of 1 billion 263 million, which includes several operational programmes, according to the latest amendments of the Operational Programme of the Fund of 25 November 2020. The funds provided for for the financial instruments entrusted to the Fund of the Funds are 459.6 million for the financial instruments, of which 293 million are equity instruments, 166 are portfolio guarantees. Additional from REACT EU, as you said, with a decision of the Council of Ministers, amended several times in 2020 and 2021, entered 236 million, which go to the Operational Programme Of these, 100 million go to the Recovery Program as portfolio guarantees. They will enter the Fund Fund within August. From their existing resources of the Fund for Portfolio Guarantees, we started the programme "Restoration" by 140 million. The program starts June with awaiting implementation for five months, but now this deadline is expected to fall to three. The main reason for the rapid absorption is precisely the lack of collateral on these loans, with the amounts going for new loans, not old, as yesterday was said, in a very good way, because the banks were still at risk and managed to direct this money to the most targeted groups. The good news is that the average loan under the Recovery Plan is below 400,000. lv. For the last few days, we've had a call from the banks saying we've run out of resources, please give more. In other words, a very well operational program and apparently to micro-enterprises. With what resource is your second question total OPIC and are funds foreseen above the defined budget? No, no funds are foreseen above the defined budget.. is the direct answer. The operational programme approved on 25 November 2020 is 2 billion 444.8 million again with several solutions, as I have said. 236 million goes above the program budget. These funds will be reimbursed on the React-eu line after official approval and amendment of OPEC by the European Commission, which is expected to happen in the next two weeks. Once again, this 236 million "100 million" goes to the Recovery Program, and the remaining 136 million goes to grant, including tourism, transport procedures, as well as micro and small enterprises. With the amendment of the OPIC on the basis of the last Decision of 12 July 2021, 105,6 million. lv. support for small enterprises with a turnover of more than 500 thousand will be negotiated under the procedure, and some of these funds are savings under other priority axes. There is therefore no provision for funds above the defined budget. It is important to note that with this increase of 105 million, which raises the amount from 78 to 185 million, in this procedure this will enable 3700 companies to benefit. We focus on hotel, restaurant and industry and in these industries all approved projects will be funded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u149	Mrs. Atanasova, for a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. In my line, I'll be brief. Mr. Minister, if you decide, then you can answer me yourself. Isn't that the refinancing of old, existing loans? How many new loans have been negotiated so far, and does this not serve banks rather than small and medium-sized enterprises that are entitled to such aid?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u151	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u152	Thank you for that question. The good news is that it turns out that we serve mainly micro and small businesses. As I said, the average amount of credit is entirely below 400,000. lv. And that's part of the program's rules. Banks cannot refinance existing loans. In other words, this is a whole new amount of money that has flown into the economy without the bank's right to refinance. In fact, let us tell you that the negotiations with the banks have been very difficult. Under these conditions they were on the verge of giving up because we guarantee them 50% of the portfolio, which means that they have 50% of the risk of the portfolio is theirs, and they cannot demand collateral, and we do not let them refinance. They were on the verge of giving up, but the result of this is that we have restaurants, hotels and the program is literally ending. The banks tell us that we have more demand for these loans than we expected in advance. This is the real truth and I am very pleased that we did so at the moment when you did not have an update on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u153	The national representative Dimitar Glavchev has the floor to develop his question about the management transactions of the property of the National Company Industrial Zones.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u154	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Ministers! I took the liberty of taking advantage of my right, Minister Petkov, to ask you a question about parliamentary control in connection with numerous media publications. You've actually seen the basis. We very much love the media with you, it is clear who does not love them, but the question is whether what is written in the media is true, as the people say: So in this regard, I have indicated a period in which you will answer me what has happened in the National Company Industrial Zones, in particular in the industrial area of Bozhurishte. 2013? I will even allow myself to direct you to a specific deal that is with the company.Volacom, as it is the subject of interest in the media and are the claims made in the media for the rapid development of this deal true is a request made by the Executive Director on 10 May 2013? The Minister of the Economy, I am glad that he is here now Mr. Vassilev, although in another quality, another minister, again in his capacity as Minister of the Service, answered immediately the question raised by the Executive Director of the National Company Industrial Zones, three days, by God, every administration to act like this, and then the Board of Directors on 23 May holds a meeting, which also determines the conditions of the competition, as one of the conditions is to be an investor in information technology. On the 23rd, the Executive Director again submitted a request to Mr. Minister for the approval of such rules under this competition, approved again the same day. By the way, it should be mentioned that there was no design plan that came into force. It's about building rights, which is still a little weird, but I hope you'll bring more clarity anyway. Then at the line, I'll allow myself to ask you more questions if you don't answer thoroughly, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u155	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u156	Thank you very much for asking the question. Just to clarify: the only media that has been able to ask me this question, and I have been able to answer it completely, is the ARC Agency. So you're the second person to ask me that, and I'd love to answer you. What did I tell the ARC Agency really? I can tell you about all the other companies that are owned, but I'm going to go into Volacom, I guess that's where the interest is. On 21.06.2013, the company "Azom", "Neona", "ARC Metrology", "Volacom", "Inovas", "Med" and "Optix" together decided to make a cluster "Mechatronics" with super-high added value for export markets are some of the best Bulgarian companies in this field, together in the Industrial Zone of Bozhurishte. The competition documentation started on 21.06. but, unfortunately, the only company that actually filed on 21.06. is Optix. Then Minister of Economy is Minister Asen Vassilev. The company in which I have participated is not currently submitting documents for acquisition of the right to construction. Although Volacom for me is one of my most successful projects, we managed to recover the investment incredibly quickly in less than six months. Really, our partners bought us out in August 2013. On the basis of the next decision of Minister Dragomir Stoynev months later on 29.11., this same cluster is submitting again, and they acquire the right of construction in January next year. Even though it sounds so interesting, the ARC Agency was very excited, but when they saw that this company had acquired its rights, I had nothing to do with it. And when I had something to do with her, and we didn't file, this whole case went quiet. If you want, I can give you by date any part of this documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u157	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! To be honest, I didn't know the firm was yours, I promise. There's some kind of gap that bothered me. In addition, there is an audit report stating that the tender is formal. I'm worried about all this, otherwise you've put out more facts. However, you did not say who were then officials in the National Company Industrial Zones and is this true? I didn't know that only the PIK was written. They must have transmuted it to other sites, but whatever. Is it true that the building right is created with which it is built these are decares, it does not matter, it is not so important; why is the value of the built building right 3.5 euros, provided that another investor has EUR per square meter; provided that the German investor does not have the name sold to 15 euros? Three times less price is not accepted, even if it is for building rights, 70. 90% should be the right to build if the land is bought, if property is acquired, and here we see how many times the difference is. There was a question, as I said, who were the officials and if it was true? And the second part of my question is: what position did the current consultant hold now at the Ministry of Economy, responsible for the checks in this same company industrial zones, Valeri Andreyev during this period? What position did the current Deputy Minister of Finance take on then Deputy Minister of Economy, Violeta Lorere? Has she voted in the meetings of the Board of Directors in respect of the quoted contest? What position did Borislav Stefanov hold in the Bulgarian Investment Agency, sign documents related to the issuance of an Investment Certificate? Oh, by the way, I missed the fact that she got a B-Study again speedily. I would really like everyone who applies under the Investment Promotion Act to acquire such a quick certificate for the relevant investor class. Is it true that the Head of the Legal Department at the National Company in 2013, who has prepared the competition procedure and has been chairman of the committee, is currently invited by you as a member of the Board of Directors and is currently participating in a competition for members of the Board of the company? Is it true that the next CEO after Valeri Andreyev confessed to the deal on the formally announced and held competition by the previous management was invited by you as a member of the Board of Directors and is currently participating in the same competition that you announced? Will you refer to the prosecution for the formally held contest, as is the conclusion of the auditors, which I mentioned to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u158	How do we proceed with the time allowance? Mr. Manev, will your turn come now? [[Reply from Manoil Manev: I won't break.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u159	Thanks for asking questions. I think there are a few mistakes you have in your information, and I'll give you an accurate explanation. When the right of construction has been acquired, as I said, it is the following year, after I have no longer been a partner in this company, at this moment Minister of Economy Dragomir Stoynev and the people of the Council are, as follows, I will now read them to you directly: Nikolay Hristov Enchev, Christopher Eftimov Christov, Atanas Nikolaev Nev, Executive Director Atanas Nikolaev Nenov. This is when the right of construction was established. Really what's going on, so at least the ARC Agency tried to do it, two periods got mixed up. One is in 2013 when there was a competition procedure to which this company did not submit documents and when it submitted to the next minister and had nothing to do with the Minister or with me or with the Supervisory Board. The good thing about this topic is that I have given all the documentation and I am willing to provide it to you by dates so that both things do not go wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u160	The next group of questions is Boyko Rashkov, Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for the Interior. The question is from Manoil Manev, Mladen Marinov and Hristo Terziyski regarding specific data on pre-trial proceedings for buying votes. The People's Representative Manoil Manev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u161	For specific data for buying votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u162	I read what's written.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u163	Since this is the question I need to ask, I will ask it directly, clearly and briefly, because today Mr. Rashkov and I have become too close to each other to ask ourselves too many questions. Mr. Rashkov, during the hearing, which had the same topic, you did not give us any specific answer on the subject, and I will set out two questions today. Why did you deny yesterday that there were signed alert protocols by our sympathizers, our members and any suspects of sympathy for the political party GERB persons, whether they are teachers, nurses, pensioners, mayors, it doesn't matter? Why weren't they given the protocols that were signed in violation of the Law? On the back page of the protocols there is a special order in which this has to happen. And until your last hour as minister, will you continue to call these people to the police station and ask them, "What did you do and why did you do it during the elections?" Thank you. [[Definitions between the Deputy Prime Minister Boyko Rashkov and President Tatyana Doncheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u164	Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Reply from the Deputy Prime Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] That's what it says. Do you have such a question? [[Replications from the Deputy Prime Minister Boyko Rashkov and from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Okay, so I suggest, after both the questioner and the one who has to answer, that there is no such question as to be served, that I give you the floor to ask the next question, and this one, if it exists, let's leave it for next week.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u165	No, no. Can I answer him now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u167	Even though he didn't ask it, but he asked it... [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u168	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u169	I want to answer him. I don't have it asked, but I'll answer the question I didn't ask. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will answer the question unquestioned as follows. Next to you is no, it's not next to you, it was next to you, it was former Minister of Interior, not even one, but two. They know that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act can, with available data in relation to one person who intends to, prepares to influence another person, including that other person to commit something contrary to his will, in this case a crime against electoral rights, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior know that they can both for this kind of crime against the political rights of citizens and in other cases warn with a protocol that, I repeat, prepares to commit any crime. Yes, there were such actions by the Ministry of Interior officials in the election period in relation to these data they had, visited citizens, submitted such a protocol, they were signed and thus fulfilled their obligation by law. I, of course, cannot say here by parliament whether there are such cases in which protocol has not been served. That's the kind of detail the minister can't know. If you had asked me the right question, I would have asked our structures whether there were such cases or not. I'd answer you then. But obviously I must also clarify from this point of view the question, because I am also sorry that I have to say it... I was impressed that it is speculating on this topic. Until a few days ago, it was claimed that the Ministry of Interior had forced people to sign, hear now: declarations. It's in the media everywhere. We do not present such documents as declarations for signature, and with any such documents we have not forced any Bulgarian citizen to take one action or another contrary to his will. But with the protocols, it's another way of explaining the way I just explained it. If you insist on this topic, for the next time I will spend here in the National Assembly one working day, I will give you comprehensive information. Now maybe I should sit down again so the folks rep can ask me the question he asked me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u170	Let me make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u171	But you didn't ask that question to take attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u172	There's a question asked on July 21st. It concerns specific data on pre-trial proceedings for the purchase of votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u173	Here it is, the question is running.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u174	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u175	The program is a messed-up order, that's what it was about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u176	It's not a mix-up, it's the way it's written.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u177	Okay, okay. The question is asked. The general answer, on Wednesday all day we received the general answers, has been received. Mr. Rashkov, that soon you will not lose all day here, you will not lose because soon you will not be a minister, it is clear. Right now, when you get back to the Ministry, I advise you to provide you with a warning protocol on the SVR we're talking about, turn it around back if you've been printed back because your employees haven't been doing it lately, maybe under your authority or some other genius, and there are two declarations there. On the back of the minutes, there are two declarations: one is that the person who has been warned by this Protocol declares that he has received such a copy and the other is that he declares that he refuses to be served with such a copy. I hope I like to dream that you will check in good faith how many protocols have been served by the issued, how many declarations there are filled in for refusal, if there are any on the served protocols. Because these thousands of protocols can't be hidden, and we're going to want them from you, while you have more time, or from the next minister, whoever he is, we're going to want to see them. And if it turns out that these protocols are deliberately unprinted in full, as the specimen is, and the declarations in the back are hidden when they are served, it borders a crime. With regard to the minutes as a document,................................................................................................. 65 of the SVR. There's a lawyer behind my back here, a good one, a criminal one. Very good, I hear, I don't know, I can't give qualifications. There are also many such people in this room...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u178	Don't want to have to try it. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u179	Let these people respectfully and respectfully treat their constituents with respect to what nonsense you have said from this tribune, with this, if the police authority...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u180	Mr. Manev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u181	...supposed... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u182	Mr. Manev! Mr. Manev, please, please! We will not allow it, I believe in the general will of the entire Chamber and of us, to speak in disdainfully from ministers to MPs, from MPs to ministers! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Manev, please! I hope you've heard as well as the auditorium. We're polite people, and I think we're gonna give... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Yeah, of course I'll let them go. It's about talking in a normal and respectful tone to a colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u183	Thank you. Can you turn on my microphones now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u184	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u185	Make the time for me, too, because you stopped it illegally. Let me just finish. Honest and honest be the lawyers who know criminal law and say: can a police authority suggest that a crime will be committed and therefore not take any other measures than to get someone to sign a protocol that they will not commit a crime? What's left of socialism, I won't qualify it, it just suits Minister Rashkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u186	Mr. Rashkov, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u187	Madam President, honourable Members! Whether I will be a minister soon or will not be a minister soon is a matter equally relevant to Mr. Manev, whether he will be a MP soon or not. [[Radio and partial applause. A line from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] This is another issue that has nothing to do with my involvement in parliamentary control today. It's got nothing to do with it! I, of course, normally, as invited by the high government here today, of course I did not expect such arrogant behaviour from a Member of the National Assembly. Moreover, it was requested and decided that this sitting should be broadcast on national media as early as the beginning of the plenary session. I can't explain whether Mr. Manev realizes that by watching him around the young people in our country...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u188	Second time, Mr. Manev. You're not making a remark to him. Let's keep it going.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u189	Here, he keeps acting arrogant even from the spot. It's going on! They seem to be so accustomed to group and to a very high tone of crescendo even to speak as truth from the last instance. Next, the Speaker of Parliament said that we are polite people and we need to have a proper attitude with each other, especially when setting an example in the media. I also, of course, see some MPs how well-mannered they are at the moment. As far as the word "supposes" goes. When I wanted to explain what it meant to go to a Bulgarian citizen, for whom the authorities of the Ministry of Interior had received information that they were preparing to commit some crime, they drafted a warning protocol. Yeah, it's a practice in our country, and those are made up of thousands in connection with the criminal vote data in our country. Everyone, the whole society knows this negative fact in our country, it seems only the folk representative who here asks a question, and as a mentor, as a truth of last resort does not know. It is supposed to be a word used in many laws in our country, so when a Member of the National Assembly turns to lawyers who are very good indeed, they will respond the same. The word "supposes" that, when a reasonable assumption arises, let's say, it is the criminal process and so on, the Code uses that expression there. To take away the right of the police officer to assume from the data he receives that someone may prepare the committing of a crime and challenge that word, rather a reference to the Law would give the correct answer. I'm not here to lecture on a criminal trial. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u190	I give the floor to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u191	It's a personal explanation. My name was mentioned six times.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u192	Please! Mentioning the name is no reason for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u193	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u194	Please order to develop your question on behalf of Manoil Manev, Mladen Marinov and Hristo Terziyski regarding the migration pressure on the Ministry of Interior system.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u195	First you'll give me the way you're holding the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u196	No, I give you my word to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u197	You can't take a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u198	Here you go. Nobody takes your word away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u199	The procedure is the way it's run.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u200	Mr. Manev, please come in and develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u201	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u202	Mr. Manev, please come in and develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u203	The second question we have for Mr. Rashkov. An hour ago, let's say, again from this room, again from this tribune, we still didn't hear anything concrete. We are now very specific, very clear and very accurate. What date are the references you read just now or will now read about the employment of the centers? What's the current rate of employment? Because our information is that it's about 100%, not 90%, not 80%, but 100%. Will the opening of new centers be necessary and where? These are the questions we want to ask you today. With regard to the insulting and bad words that we say to each other from the stands, never at all, when I have to mention your name, have I used no other name, as you do in the media with regard to me. With regard to conjectures, it is suggested and so on that there are not so many texts in criminal law that it suggests. There's one for a sacred prisoner, as I recall, et cetera, et cetera. Law lectures are not important to me, I need your answers in relation to what you do with Bulgarian citizens, police officers and the Ministry of Interior. That's why we're calling you here and asking you about nothing else, not because I'm very pleased to talk to you from this tribune exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u204	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u205	Madam President, honourable Members! By 11:00, I think I've given enough information on this issue about the migratory pressure, about the number of people placed in the respective ones, let them not be homes, let them be centers, it's understandable, it doesn't matter at all. I have indicated the number of these individuals, I have indicated the percentage and capacity of these centres and, of course, I have explained what measures we will take in case the migratory pressure increases to the point that we have no place to put these people who have, in one way or another, penetrated the territory of our country. I can't explain: was I unclear until 11:00 just on this point that it's happening again? There are such centers, I said, and I will repeat it may be necessary, in Lyubimets, where there were MPs. With respect, they have shown interest in what a Member of the National Assembly should show. Yeah, there's really a problem with those people staying there. Yes, including in relation to the conditions under which they are accommodated, we take care of them. I explained this in detail as well as in Sofia. I am tempted, but I am not going to ask the question, I do not see them here my former ministers, because with this centre or home in Sofia there are extremely serious problems that have not been solved not 70 days ago, but I will save this issue, this problem will save it. They couldn't solve it specifically with this center here in Sofia. I also said that if necessary, if the capacity is fulfilled and there is no place for these people to stay in Lyubimets or in Sofia, there will be another such centre. There's no need for that right now. That's what I said. I don't see the need to repeat the same thing here and waste parliamentary time. Rather, Madam President, I appeal, allow other MPs to ask other questions that have not been taken into account so that we can move forward. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u206	To clarify: since it is the first two weeks of Parliament's work, where parliamentary committees have not yet been made, so that laws can pass and other items can be viewed on the agenda, the first days were a hearing of ministers. The colleagues from GERB have chosen the problems related to migration as an important topic. That's why they were given all the time today. In light of the circumstances, this question, which has been asked more than a week ago, without colleagues knowing that the debate will be scheduled today, has become such a setting of topics. But I think that in the context of good tone we will come out of the situation without boring our listeners and viewers as well. You're welcome to express your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u207	Actually, Minister, today we have achieved a very good result. You just said what we wanted to hear, that you would have to, if you take them, make new accommodations for the centers, homes, it doesn't matter what we call them. In fact, that was the goal of saying that if needed, new ones would be made. True, the second goal we have achieved is I do not know why so secret and secret, but most likely because the really caretaker government and the minister of the service have no way of knowing what the plans are, where they will be made. Finally, as an attitude I would like to add on the subject is that we had a very long debate a little while ago on this: is Borisov's walking in Turkey relevant? Is it relevant for Radev to go to Greece because there is double the pressure from Greece? For the partition facility, first, this is the partition facility from the time of Prime Minister Oresharski. Mud to the ears! Colleagues were there by the police, they know. Secondly, the partition facility was built with a decision of Mr. Oresharski's government to make it clear to close the whole issue with pressure, pressure and so on. Otherwise, I thank you for saying this earlier that after we went to these centers, the next day you sent the gendarmes there. It's good that at least it has some effect on our going back and forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u208	Would you like to express your attitude, Mr. Minister, or should we move on to the next question? [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "He has no right. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u209	He's entitled to the doppelganger minister. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] The national representative Maya Manolova has the floor to develop his question regarding compliance with the principles of the state social security referred to in art. 3 of the Social Security Code in relation to pensions allocated to work before 2008 The issue is to Galab Donev "Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u210	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, there is a huge expectation in Bulgarian society and especially among Bulgarian pensioners that there will be a recalculation of pensions to ensure justice, equality and solidarity in determining pensions, on the one hand, and, on the other, to bring the elderly people of Bulgaria out of the humiliating situation - 62% of them to live below the poverty line. The bets in art. 3 of the Code of Social Security principles focus precisely on the principle of equal treatment of insured persons and on the principle of solidarity. Unfortunately, the policy in recent years with regard to pensions has led to extremely serious distortions and a huge difference in the pension received, regardless of the insurance contribution and regardless of the individual's internship. The opportunities before you as a minister who offers recalculation of pensions are two: to bet on recalculation of pensions based on social security income. We are also coming! and the parliamentary group of BSP, thus overcoming the difference between pensions received before the 2008 calendar year and pensions received now for the same contribution to the social security system. Of course, we mean that the average insurance internship in 2007, based on which the last calculation was made, is 398 BGN and the average insurance in 2018, which we offer as a year for recalculation of pensions, is 890 BGN. Therefore, the differences in pensions of persons who have worked at the same time, in the same positions, have the same contribution, are double, are drastic. You are making an offer that you have imported or will submit to Parliament today after having received the approval of the Council of Ministers, offering 12.5% average increase in pensions of all pensioners or 64 leva. mean increase. Do you think that the approach you are proposing, namely an increase in the contribution to the insurance service from 1.2 to 1.35%, resulting in a total average increase in pensions of 12.5%, is fair and is in full compliance with the principles of solidarity and equal treatment of persons provided under the Code of Social Security?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u211	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, one of the principles of state social security is solidarity. In accordance with this principle, through the income from social contributions of persons working now and being provided are the means to pay pensions, benefits and aid from the State social security. In accordance with another principle established by the Social Security Code, the level playing field and, as provided for in the legislation in force, since 1 July, the dimensions of all pensions relating to employment have been updated under the so-called Swiss rule, regardless of their minimum, maximum or actual size. It should be borne in mind that updating is carried out on the actual amount of the pension and not on the minimum or maximum amount received, which is determined annually by the State Social Security Budget Act. As of 1 July 2021, the same percentage of the total amount of the social pension for old age was increased, which also led to the increase of the other non-employment-related pensions, which are determined in percentage of the pension. These are social disability pensions, military disability pensions, civil invalidity pensions and personal pensions. With regard to the participation of the country's average monthly social security income for the previous 12 months, it is important to take into account that it is part of the pension formula, since until the time the pension is granted, the person has been involved in the insurance, has contributed social contributions and his income has been accounted for in determining the national average monthly social security income. After retirement, persons who have not worked and have not been insured have no contribution to its growth, so there is no reason for their pensions to be determined or recalculated depending on this income. The insurance income actually increases every year, but this is the result of the contributions paid by the workers. This is also one of the reasons why the government has not proposed this approach for recalculating pensions. It is also important to note that in the event of a possible recalculation of pensions only with the social security income for 2018 an increase would not receive 915 000 pensions, i.e. 44 percent of the total number, and in the case of an increase with the social security income for 2019 will not receive 778 800 pensions, i.e. 37.2% of the total number. This is also a visual principle of equality. In view of the above considerations and in strict compliance with the principles of solidarity and equality of persons in the Council of Ministers approved on 29 July 2021, a draft law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021 is proposed to increase the burden of one year of insurance service in the pension formula from 1,2 to 1,35 percent and to recalculate pensions allocated by that date with the same burden of insurance service. These measures have a positive financial effect on pensions already granted, at the same time providing an opportunity to increase the amounts of newly granted pensions after 1 October 2021, taking into account the contribution of persons to the pension system. The adoption of this proposal for changes in legislation will lead to a higher level of replacement of income from both the current and future pensioners with greater insurance service, which is also fairer. Everything set out so far motivates the government to propose a recalculation of pensions by increasing the burden of one year of insurance service in the pension formula, which has a positive effect on both newly granted and already allocated pensions, and not by changing the country's average monthly insurance income. I hope that I have clarified the ambiguities, if any, of what are the reasons why we propose that the recalculation of pensions be carried out by increasing the burden of one year of insurance service in the pension formula from 1.2 to 1.35 per cent. In the finals, I would also like to add how many of these causes are 915,000. There are so many pensioners who would not receive an increase if a recalculation with the insurance income for 2018. Moreover, 583 500 of them will continue to receive a minimum pension of 300 BGN. and after the recalculation with insurance income for 2018, which will preserve the existing inequality, it will even deepen it. In addition, imbalances between the minimum pensions that will not receive an increase and the rest that will rise will be increased. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u213	Mrs. Manolova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u214	Dear Minister, the people who retired in 2008 will remain deceived because the imbalance between the old and new pensions will deepen and the scissors will open even more with this increase in the way you propose it. But that's not the biggest trouble. The biggest problem in your proposal is that there will be people who after the so-called recalculation of pensions will turn out to be 10 BGN. Less in the pocket, 10 leva. less in the portfolio, given the increase of the minimum pension to 340 BGN. At the moment, with the allowances that were given in times of crisis, people got used to them and their expectation is that at least the increase will exceed this limit of 350 BGN. The decision to reach a level of BGN 369 through social security means, we are all aware that it will not apply to all pensioners. There will be those who, because of the fact that they have a house, that they have a barn in a village, will simply not meet the criteria for social support and will remain with 340 leva. I think there's time for this to be reconsidered, and after the so-called recalculation, there's no pensioner who gets a pension lower than the pension he's been getting so far. Otherwise, this could be seen as a first step towards raising pensions, to updating them. Because the real recalculation will happen when the insurance income from the last year is taken as a criterion, so that all who 10 years have been neglected by the government of GERB and the government of Borisov to receive justice in the form of recalculated pensions. Borisov didn't have 13 years to recalculate them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u215	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u216	I think the time has come here in this Chamber, a next government to correct this injustice. [[Applause IBGNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u217	Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Manolova! Indeed, when we talk about the income of elderly people, there are always injustices. You take into account the fact that there is a difference in the size of pensions granted over the years before 2008 and after 2008. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that during this period of time in the Bulgarian legislation in the Social Security Code different regimes have acted, different provisions on how and which components of the social contribution of the specific persons participate in the formula for calculating and determining the amount of pensions. And they're a lot of indicators that I wouldn't want right now from the parliamentary tribune to concern everyone with. I would just like to point out to you the fact that this recalculation of pensions with an average social security income for 2018, including these 915 000 pensioners recalculation or an increase in pensions, will not receive pensioners with a non-employment-related pension, which is at the expense of the state budget. That's 59,200 faces. Pensioners with a pension above the minimum or below the minimum amount for which the recalculation is not favourable either because they are granted with a higher benefit or because the amount of the pension resulting from the annual update under the so-called Swiss rule has exceeded the amount that would have been obtained after the recalculation, and these are 247 700 persons. Pensioners who are paid at a minimum and after recalculating the actual amount of the pension will remain below the minimum again for the species concerned or those who do not have an individual coefficient and their pensions are paid at a minimum for the species concerned, and these are not a small number of persons. They will not receive an increase of pensioners with a pension limited to the maximum amount on the ceiling of the pensions of BGN 1440. These are currently 24,600 faces. I understand that we all want the simple mathematics of the 50 leva, which are paid to the pensions of all pensioners per month, to be included in the amount of personal pensions, individual pensions of the persons, but such simple mathematics in social insurance does not. Because in the formula for determining the amount of pensions, there are many indicators that need to be taken into account, and the fairest way to raise pensions is to recalculate what has been retained for years the insurance service which participates in the pension formula. You know that after 2019 this coefficient was frozen at 1.2 and what was provided in the Law with amendments and additions to the Social Security Code from 2015 to increase this coefficient to 1.5 did not actually happen. Now this injustice, this injustice, we propose to change the coefficient from 1.2 to 1.35. Yes, in the simple mathematics of the 50 levs of the lowest income, the minimum pension will not be made according to the formula we offer and naturally under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the State Social Security for 2021 to increase from 300 to 350 levs. But you said very correctly yourself that we offer a new kind of monthly financial support for all pensioners over the age of 65...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u219	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u220	...that receive income below the poverty line. Indeed, this is a new species, a modern kind of assistance and this is the way the social system in Bulgaria should go by supporting the low income people, the people who are at risk of poverty, and for pensioners this risk of poverty is not at all small.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u221	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u222	In Bulgaria 54% of pensioners over the age of 65 live at risk of poverty. This is Eurostat statistics.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u223	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u224	This is according to the methodology used to determine incomes and living conditions in Europe. So what we offer as...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u225	Time, you've already exceeded it three times.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u226	Yes, thank you. We propose that it be done through social assistance, which is much fairer and not every year to burden the social security system with recalculation of pensions so that we can change the fate of Bulgarian pensioners. It can be changed through social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u227	The word has the public representative Martin Dimitrov to develop his question to Asen Vassilev, Minister of Finance about what part of the uncollected around 700 million. lv. from gambling were collected by court on 30 June 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u228	Can we have procedure before then?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u230	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, in the name of good tone and the return of parliamentaryism to plenary, please, when suggestions are being made by the parliamentary platform or untruths are being spoken, interrupting the speechable MPs. My specific procedure is in the manner of conduct related to Mrs. Manolova's reply to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, which once again recorded by Prime Minister Borisov, who clearly misses her very much, the problems in the social sphere related to the increase in pensions. I would like, just to be correct with the data and facts, to tell the Chamber, the viewers, the listeners and Mrs Manolova that in 2009 the minimum pension was BGN 136.95 from 1 July 2009 and the government of GERB paid them after the government of the Triple Coalition and in 2021 the minimum pension was BGN 300. With the 50 leva supplement, which you think was election vote buying...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u231	Mrs. Atanasova, we both know very well that you haven't spoken under procedure for a long time, and I, in the spirit of humor, satire and entertainment, will suggest that you submit a law of insult to the wasp, which was in Ferdinand's time, and any mention of Boyko Borisov's name will be sanctioned with imprisonment if you wish. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u232	I will vote against you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. In the name of humor, satire and fun, I expect that MPs or opposition leaders will not be permanently or always offended by the parliamentary platform in order to need such legislation. I expect that here we are all chosen by the people and we are intelligent enough to express ourselves with respect even to the political opponent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u234	It is very difficult for us to love Boyko Borisov. [[Radio.]] Don't ask us to do this now! I think it would be too much. [[Applause and laughter by IBBNI, ICN, DB.]] It's going to be too much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u235	Respect him, Mrs. Doncheva. He probably doesn't want you to love him either.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u236	That's right. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u237	Mrs. Chairman! Mrs. Atanasova, the hedgehogs are now without thorns and no one is missing, but the damage they have done to Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian pensioners will continue to poison the lives of the elderly in Bulgaria for a long time. The man, the government, his three cabinet, who left over a million and 200,000 people to live below the poverty line, to live with miserable pensions, to wonder what to first pay the bills for electricity, whether the food or medicines in the most corrupt country, he really has a huge sin against the Bulgarian citizens, the elderly people of Bulgaria. Such a sin belongs to all who supported Borisov's offices, who did nothing for the pensioners. I would like to say that this will no longer be the case in the 46th Parliament. The pensions will be recalculated after 13 years of total neglect of the elderly. Whether this will happen with the involvement of the caretaker government or the next regular government, pensions will be recalculated immediately. The increase offered by the office is a first step. From October 1st, people will receive plus BGN 64. average, but this is an increase, not a recalculation. From January 1st on the next step, the people who were forgotten by GERB, who retired before 2008, will receive justice by recalculating pensions based on social security income from 2019. The same applies to people who could not work because of disability and all payments related to the minimum pension. We will not allow there to be a minimum pension below the poverty threshold and a miserable population in Bulgaria. That's gonna change. Otherwise, the hedgehogs don't miss anyone, the hedgehogs don't have thorns anymore!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u239	Dear Madam President, Dear Ministers, Mr. Vassilev, ladies and gentlemen! I ask this question to the Minister of Finance Mr. Vassilev because it is extremely strange that in the period 2015 - 2019 - to 700 million. lv. together with interest rates were not collected from gambling activity. A self-explanatory basis for examining the question is how this happened, what was the Minister of Finance doing in that period, his deputy ministers, the political cabinet, all those involved in risk assessment? How can one such amount be 700 million? BGN, did you put it together, how did this happen? But my specific question today is: what part of this amount was subsequently collected in court? This question was not answered by the ministers of the previous government. I asked this question several times to the Minister of Finance, to the former Minister of Finance, he said: "Just ask it, I will answer it, but no answer has been received. The last public information, Mr. Vassilev, which we all have, is that of the 700 million. lv. About 8 million were collected. lv. supposed to 1%, which is an extremely satisfactory result. So, realizing that you are in this ministry for up to a month, but supporting your principle that state control should be on the big companies, rather than pursuing and harassing the small business, following this principle, it is important that these money that has been lost from gambling activity be sought and restored as much of them as possible, and the more important issue is: in the future, whatever government is elected by this and subsequent parliaments, this will never be allowed again. This should never happen again in Bulgaria, regardless of who manages, regardless of who the finance minister is, some hundreds of millions of people from gambling or other activities should not be collected. This should never be allowed in Bulgaria again. So my specific question, Minister, is: what part of this money has been recovered in the budget in judicial order so far, what are your expectations from now on, is there at least a part of this money to be returned to the budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u240	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Dear Minister, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u241	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Dimitrov, honourable colleagues! I will answer the question directly, and then I would also like to share some information about the mechanisms of control that exist and have not been used. At the moment, we have raised 34 million. 105,000. BGN 151,35 of which 12 million are not yet fully distributed as they are appealed. There is a separate court ruling, with a total of 261 million. 164,000. 891,40 leva. and interest of 67 million. 717 thousand. 779.18 BGN The Court has confirmed at first instance 241 million. 458 thousand. 802,26 leva. That is, at the moment we have the 34th.. collected, 241.................... from the first instance of the court, in the course of an appeal. The total amount you are talking about is 556 million. 872,000. BGN 283. and 136 million. 236 thousand. BGN 978. interest rates. It's a colossal sum! A report by the State Financial Inspection Agency came out, and today the official report was submitted about two weeks ago, where the finding is that the State Gaming Commission did not find itself applying that administrative penal provision to the State Gambling Commission, but at the same time for the verification period, there was a payment of less than the amount due by the gaming organisers following the decisions of the State Gambling Commission with which their rules were established. That is, not only is the money not wanted, but there are active actions that have allowed this money not to be sought and not to be collected. This is given to the prosecution, it was initiated. I do not know exactly the PPC. Some preliminary check, we hope will lead to results. A little more general. The Ministry of Finance is usually viewed as the ministry, which distributes the money, makes the budget and signs the state's checks, most harshly put. But the Ministry has a very important function that maybe some of the colleagues don't understand, and that's the control function. The Ministry of Finance must control whether money is spent legally and whether it is spent effectively. For this purpose, the Ministry has a set of tools. One thing is, as it was here, the Gambling Commission to do its job, the others are the State Financial Inspection Agency, the Public Procurement Agency, which should provide methodological guidance on how the Public Procurement Act works. This agency has quite accidentally not given a methodical indication and therefore we have 8.6 billion in In House orders because of the missed methodological indication and incorrectly transposed European Directive that opened this hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u242	Minister, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u243	Thank you. If I may, one more minute to finish. The Ministry of Finance agreed the appointment of all auditors in the State from the smallest municipality to the largest ministry. All these control functions, which are within the authority of the Ministry of Finance, have been neglected. He didn't even know what was giving, how it was giving, and who was giving it away. At the moment, we have been trying to restore this control function to the Ministry so that it can work and not really allow such outrage, such as not collecting these taxes, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, not allowing unauthorised, ineffective, unlawful money leaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u244	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dimitrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u245	Dear Mr. Vassilev, I see that you are making efforts in the right direction. And the report of the Financial Inspection has shown that the Gambling Commission has not done its job and has set lower fees, but it is worth understanding, and you should check: how is it that no one in the Ministry of Finance at that time, and the Ministry, you correctly note, has a control function, no one intervened? Because even if an element of the control system is not functioning, then the Minister of Finance should have, then, your predecessor, of course, not you, the Deputy Ministers of Finance, the political cabinet, the directorate he is budgeting, but you wouldn't see that hundreds of millions are not in this budget, that the year in question was over 100 million. Lev?! Yeah, 700 million. With interest, but if we split in four years, we get over 100 million. lv. per year. Well, how?! The directorate that is preparing the budget has also not found this discrepancy, that is, a strange coincidence! And that, again, must never be allowed again. You can see from your answer that of the 700 million. lv. with interest, 34 million has been raised so far, which is about 5%, which we cannot be satisfied with. The others correctly say that they continue to be the subject of a judicial dispute, and I hope that it will end favorably and additional funds will be collected, but it is key to use and your powers to clarify how so many people have not understood what is happening? How did the Minister of Finance himself not realize that hundreds of millions are gone, and for small traders, when they do not have two levs, they are being charged huge fines? You said about the hairdressers when they didn't account for a given cost and the Minister of Finance didn't understand that there are hundreds of millions to be in the budget, his deputy and he didn't understand, the whole political cabinet and they didn't understand, the whole department that is in charge of the budget and she didn't understand!? The accumulation of such coincidences, Minister, remains a grave doubt, because we must want the best government for our country all the time, regardless of who the parliament is, what the government is, and we must take steps to ensure that such a situation can never be repeated again. So, I'm asking you with an insistent request that this inspection be carried out inside the Ministry how no one has found out about the hundreds of millions...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u246	Mr. Dimitrov, your time is long gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u247	...who haven't been collected? Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u248	Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u249	He's for jail!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u250	Don't hand out sentences!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u251	I'm just making an opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u252	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u253	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. That is why the verification of the State Financial Inspection Agency was undertaken and it has found that the Gambling Commission has not exercised control, and that the control of the Gambling Commission has also not been exercised as it should be. As far as internal security is concerned. As you know, the Gambling Commission has been closed, all the people have been disbanded and the activity has been transferred elsewhere. I don't think that's a coincidence. It was done precisely so that there would be no traceability of who was doing what, but luckily, the prosecution hopes to do its job as it can track persons outside the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u254	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Atanasova, order to develop the second question to Minister Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u255	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, fellow MPs! Dear Minister Vassilev, I am glad that you were from the beginning of parliamentary control in this House, because the question I am going to ask you is also related to the question that we have also discussed with the Minister of Economy. It is in relation to the fact that on 22 June 2021, together with Mr. Petkov, Minister of Economy, you announced the launch of a Recovery Programme, according to which small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to apply for credit to a commercial bank that is secured 80% of the Fund Fund and is without collateral from borrowers. Mr. Petkov's position was that they would be, I quote: the hands of the banks untied. Your expectations were 2.5 billion. lv. to get to the business much faster, without collateral. In view of the above and in your capacity of representing the rights of the state in the capital of the Fund Manager of Financial Instruments in Bulgaria, I ask you to answer the following questions: how many Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises received guaranteed loans from the Fund of Funds and to what value are the guaranteed loans from 22 June 2021 to the present; what is the economic effect for the business and the economy of the implementation of the measure, which is essentially not a new measure, but a redesign of existing by the Fund of Funds; what is your forecast for when to reach 2.5 billion. lv. Unsettled funds in the form of loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u256	Dear Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u257	Yes, thank you. First of all, let's get a few things straight about this. We announced the program on June 22nd. There are currently nine banks involved in the programme, and they have started handing out loans from some July 1st, some from July 15th. Currently under approval are loans of 184 million. lv. over 181 companies. Already approved for these 15 days by the different banks are 53 credits worth 21 million. lv. As regards whether the measure or design is an existing measure or a new measure, this measure is actually very different as an economic philosophy. This measure says: companies have used up their funds and collateral during the mold crisis, they currently have projects, they can work, but they have nothing to give as collateral to the banks. So removing the collateral requirement from credit companies is actually the main relief condition so that they can take credit. They're currently negotiating between 2 and 5 million a day on loans, two weeks ago it was 2 million, and now it's 5 million. The pace is accelerating. As Mr. Petkov said: we already have two banks that have reached the preliminary credit ceilings and have requested additional funds. We expect by the end of the year these 2.5 billion to be able to enter the economy of Bulgaria and to help Bulgarian companies that have projects that can protect their projects before the banks and not before officials who can benefit from the fact that they should not give collateral to the banks. There are also received signals that some of the banks do not play exactly by the rules, try to find a hole in the margin and so on. They are considered to prevent abuse of the program. This program helps companies precisely so that they can take credit at a very difficult time for them with a seven-year horizon without having payments in the first year so that they are not charged with additional payments on these loans. The average amount of credit moves from 400,000 to 1 million, that is, it goes right into small and medium-sized enterprises, not 150 million, as the BBI has done for years.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u258	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Atanasova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u259	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am pleased with your enthusiasm because if, for the period from 1 July to 29 July, loans for 21 million have been granted, I do not know why you are so convinced that by the end of the year loans for 2.5 billion will be granted, with not many months until the end of December? But why do you think and mislead the public, in my view, that borrowers do not require collateral, such as contracts between commercial banks and the Fund and, respectively, in the terms of commercial banks, it is stated that each borrower provides a personal guarantee by the actual or actual owners, as well as in the case that it is applicable to bets on account claims, including under the terms of the DPA, under the Law on Special Bets by the final recipient? In fact, the partner bank accepts the personal guarantees of the actual owners, i.e. the persons or firms of small and medium-sized enterprises in any case guarantee with their personal ownership. In other words, this is no longer a grant, which is a credit which they are absolutely obliged to guarantee with their property, something entirely different from the thesis that all trade union and employers' organisations, even the president, when talking about this measure last year, wanted to be grants, grants aimed at business, not loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Minister Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u261	A few things. First of all, you may never have taken credit from a bank, but if you go to a bank, especially if you are a small company, that you either enter as a co-debtor or as a guarantor of the loan is an absolutely mandatory condition in over 90% of the loans and from the banks. So this has nothing to do with collateral. In addition to the fact that you enter as a co-debtor to take credit from a bank, you are usually asked for collateral, whether buildings, or contracts, or inventory, or anything else that varies between 60 and 100% of the amount of the loan. This collateral shall not be required. This guarantee cannot be provided by companies because during the crisis, because of your late aid to companies, these companies gave themselves all the collateral and remained unable to provide additional collateral. The programme that we made after they gave themselves all the collateral and did not have the opportunity to provide additional collateral, they could still get credit if they had a business that could develop. A very important thing to say, too, is that for companies that are in the worst industries, we have kept the work of the measure 60/40, that is, grants have for the most severely affected companies. For all other companies, in the absence of an opportunity to update the budget, we made a programme with a portfolio of 2.5 billion without touching one lev of the budget so that these companies could receive loans, develop their business under light conditions. As to whether I am optimistic or pessimistic, you know very well when a program starts, that at least a week or ten days takes to submit the documents to be examined and then credited. That is why the figure of 21 million currently concluded we have a figure of 184 million that will be concluded within the next week "they are in the process of final documents." The acceleration we see in the programme, and this is quite normal.. all the programs so work, allows us to say that quite calmly by the end of the year, most of these 2.5 billion will enter the economy. They will pass through the commercial banks and reach the companies who need these funds and who do not have collateral that they can provide outside the signature of the owner of the company.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u262	Mr. Vassilev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u264	We thank Minister Vassilev very much. A question was received from the MP Hristo Georgiev Gajev concerning violations and abuses in the management of public funds in the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Georgi Panayotov, Minister of Defence, will answer the question. [[Reply.]] Excuse me. Excuse me. Here you are, Mr. Gadget, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister of Defence, in a number of your public statements over the last two months you have mentioned and given examples of poor governance, let's put it this way, of public resources in management of the Ministry of Defence for contracts concluded without complying with some of the good practices in resource management and even with the laws. By the way, in a large part of these examples you gave, it was about construction or repairing infrastructure carried out by the Ministry of Defence. Of course, for us as MPs, I suppose, and for the whole society, it is important to see if all of this is so... what are the violations and what checks have you done? So one of the main issues that we have been interested in over the past two months is exactly this: what checks have you performed, respectively what violations of the laws of public funds management have you found and, of course, are there any penalties for these violations? Because if there are violations, there should be punishment. Makes sense. What do you think these bad practices are, what measures have you taken to prevent them and, of course, how will the funds for acquisition or repairing equipment, the armed and infrastructure in the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army be better managed from now on? I will end here because there are still further questions, but to give you enough time to develop your activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u266	Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u267	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gadzhev, in response to your question, I would like to provide the following information: from 12 May 2021 until now the following checks have been carried out at the General Directorate of Defense and Defence at the Executive Agency of Military Clubs and Military-Adjournment, in the Ministry of Military Affairs and Military Affairs. The checks found violations regarding compliance with financial discipline, non-compliance with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act, ineffective control regarding the implementation of the concluded works contracts. In most of the companies there were no controllers under art. 144 of the Commercial Law. The inspection at the Directorate General for Defence and Defence ended with findings that 80% of all public contracts in the field of infrastructure projects in 2020 were concluded without market research and with the direct award of certain contractors. The contracts for the infrastructure related to the acquisition of the new F-16 fighters were concluded as engineering contracts involving two-phase designs. Contracts shall not provide for a deadline within which projects involving the period of approval by the contracting entity should be prepared. In this regard, the first stage of design has not yet been completed at the moment, namely, most contracts still do not have an approved project. This requires the conclusion that there is currently a delay of about 7 months. In 95% of the contracts concluded, I am talking about the infrastructure of F-16 are paid in advance. In this way, approximately 184 million were transferred for the end of 2020 and the beginning of 2021. lv. and although the Public Procurement Act is not formally violated, the results are negative and there are indicators of corruption. The inspection at the Military Clubs Executive Agency and the military-retirement case (MFF) concluded with findings that for the second consecutive year there are continuous repairs at the military-retirement bases in Sozopol and Nessebar. Repairs are paid in advance and under conditions that despite the lack of the necessary quality, there is no possibility of a refund of the money. This leads to a reduced bed base, including a return of money on already purchased holiday cards from servicemen and their families, because they have nowhere to be accommodated. Currently, in order to solve the problems of poor repairs, finishing activities are being carried out with forces and resources of the people in the maintenance of the bases, i.e. by employees of the Ministry of Defence. The Contracting Authority did not assign investor control to the premises, but also employees from the State Property Management Department. The company did not carry out timely and effective control over the ongoing implementation of the construction works under the technical application; the regulatory time limits for publication of relevant documents were not respected; cases of division of the procurement into parts were observed, which applied order for award for lower values. The check at "Terem.St.St. EAD" concluded with findings that the Board of Directors did not adopt rules for their work.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The examination of a new business programme to take account of the company's performance has not been established. There is a persistent trend that.Terem's subsidiaries take into account a loss of their activities and that the costs exceed the revenues from the activity. Contracts concluded shall not ensure the production of subsidiaries for a longer period of time. All of this requires the need to finance the activities of the subsidiaries of 7 million. 789 thousand. lv. "Terem Holding" EAD has granted its subsidiaries internal loans in amount, along with interest rates, 41 million. 664 thousand. lv. It's money that will practically never be returned. In relation to the findings, some of the reports of the checks carried out were sent according to the competence of the State Financial Inspection Agency and the Military District Prosecutor's Office. The Director-General of the General Directorate of the Defence is hereby relieved of the position and the disciplinary board of the Minister of Defence shall establish guilty persons and their degree of guilt. Following a final report, appropriate disciplinary penalties will be imposed. A plan is currently being implemented with measures aimed at shortening the abandonment and non-abuse of the pre-transfered funds. The Executive Agency of Military Clubs and Military-Variation Affairs shall take action to address the deficiencies identified. A temporary Board of Directors has been appointed in "Terem Holding." The entry, however, is blocked by constant procedural tricks by the old management. This is of no use to the company. There are also ongoing competition procedures for nominated members of the Board of Directors of "Terem Holding" EAD, according to the Public Enterprises Act and the Rules for its Implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u268	You can navigate towards completion, Minister Panayotov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u269	Just a minute. The Board of Appeal is currently identifying the guilty persons, as I have already said. The Executive Agency has issued an order to release the Executive Director, but he has not yet accepted that order. Deputy Executive Directors of the Agency have been released, a new Executive Director has been appointed. The responsibility for the financial situation of the subsidiaries lies with the Board of Directors. The Ministry's administration in the field of public procurement and infrastructure is functioning in difficulty. A change of the Ministry of Defence's Rules of Procedure is under way, with the closure of directorates and the redistribution of responsibilities aimed at interrupting certain vicious practices and creating conditions for transparency and objectivity. New Internal Rules for the Management of the Public Procurement Cycle in the Ministry of Defence were adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u270	Mr. Minister, if you'd like to leave time for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u272	Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u273	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Thanks for the information. Indeed, the data you have said requires concern and I hope that the competent authorities will do their job, because if there are people who have broken the good rules or broken the law, they will suffer their consequences as provided for in every rule of law. I have a few additional questions here, by the way, because I was impressed by the fact that the checks you have carried out are only in several sectors, namely defence infrastructure and, as you said, the Executive Agency and "Terem Holding" EAD. The Ministry of Defence is also the principal of other trading companies, have they been inspected, or do you think that everything was okay there, since, if they have not been carried out, you have not appointed such checks? It also impresses me, at least made it clear to me that you didn't say that checks or some kind of analysis were carried out on the defence affidavit, namely the acquisition of material and technical property, armament and equipment, their acquisition and repair, that is to say, in plain language, from Cubans and uniforms to the repair of airplanes and the acquisition of new flight equipment. Do you think everything's been okay in the last few years? Because according to what you said, there may have been problems in other sectors. Did you set up checks there? And how will you end, so to speak, the cycle of revision of the management process in the Ministry itself in all its aspects? Because if we talk about infrastructure, there is one thing, but orders for equipment and repair of existing equipment sometimes exceed times what the Ministry devotes to repairing or building infrastructure. And as for the delay in the construction of the infrastructure attached to the acquisition of new aircraft, this is extremely worrying. I hope that if this Parliament forms a Committee on Defence, this will be considered because such a delay would also result in a delay in the adoption of the new flight equipment and much more serious problems related to Bulgaria's national security. So here we will certainly have further questions already in closed session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u274	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u275	Thanks for the questions, Mr. Gadget. I have mentioned the checks that I have carried out, and I would like to say that one of them continues to be underway because the Ministry of Defence is carrying out the checks by the Internal Audit Office, which needs 30 to 45 days sometimes to complete an inspection. I've been a minister for a little over two months. And in relation to your question of inspections at the Department of Defence Public Procurement, which deals with the ARC, such an inspection was carried out last year, which found some gaps, but in general the conclusion is that there is nothing wrong. Since I am a minister, several tenders have been held for the A.S.A.D. different types of armaments, not naturally on airplanes, because airplanes, as you know, are subject to an interstate treaty with the United States of America. You know about the unfinished armored-machine project. But as a whole, I would like to tell you that the inspections, some of them are assigned to companies that are engaged in the repair of arms, such as the "Terem Flotski Arsenal" - Varna, which deals precisely with the repair of military equipment for the Navy of the Republic of Bulgaria. This check hasn't finished yet, it actually started about 10 days ago and I'll tell you the results when they come out. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u276	Thank you, Minister Panayotov. For consideration, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u277	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! I am asking the question of public procurement for a reason, whether everything is okay there, but yes, the acquisition of the new aircraft is an interstate contract, but the acquisition of repair packages and at all the repair or maintenance of the aircraft now adopted is from the competence of this particular directorate, as well as many other things. You said that the Director of the Directorate General (CEO) was released, but let's be as accurate as possible, he was released and appointed as Deputy Director, right, that's the punishment? A person has been appointed director, who has come from the Foreign Office, certainly is a professional, and so far the disciplinary responsibility you have imposed on the subject is exhausted, unlike some of your fellow ministers who have lightly fired, whether right or wrong, dozens, and in places hundreds of other people from the administration and specialized structures. Why am I paying attention now to the defense affidavit and to the defence procurement department at all, because all these problems that you say exist in the repair and construction of infrastructure are actually continuing at your time in this directorate, which obviously do not impress you. In this case, procedures that contain all the vicious practices that you can think of, such as procedures without notice, with direct negotiation, with one participant, and with technical specifications that are made for mayor's Mercedes for tens of millions of levs. If you don't think about it, I can tell you where they are so that you can check out where these problems of yours are after all, because if there is a real market survey, it may be that the price that the Ministry of Defence is about to pay is times greater than the one that is the real price of the products, and that is already a big problem. Therefore, let us turn these words of yours into better management of the Ministry of Defence's financial assets indeed in cases and much more focus on acquiring material and technical equipment, weapons and equipment and related activities, because we still have signals of such vicious practices in your time, and tens of millions of levs. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u278	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. There has been a question from the MP Ekaterina Zaharieva to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova on the Western ring road of the town of Pazardzhik. Here you are, Mrs. Zaharieva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u279	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I ask this question and it is one of the first questions that I ask to you, because all the residents of Pazardzhik, but not only the whole area, were extremely worried there was even a small protest when they found out that the government and institutions you led have cancelled the construction of this waiting, I can say as born and living in Pazardzhik, indeed from no less than ten years round the road. And I don't know if you've been in Pazardzhik recently, but all the heavy traffic and all the traffic is literally going through the city center and it's extremely dangerous for the citizens living nearby to continue living like this. I would like to ask you: on what grounds did the API terminate the contract for the construction of the Western Ring Road? What stage is it at if there is such a new procurement? What time can the construction start on this road?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u280	Thank you. Minister Komitova, come in. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm answering Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva's question. I have prepared a written answer for Mrs. Zaharieva, please give it to her. Here he is. I answer the following: By Decision No 868-15 of 5 February 2021 of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Agency, a procedure for Public Procurement with the subject of the contract was opened for the construction of a technical project and engineering for the site Western tour of the town of Pazardzhik from km 123 to km 128,900. On the basis of art. 18, para. 1, t. 1 of the Public Procurement Act within the specified time limit for receipt of tenders. " 11 March 2021 through the platform under art. 39a, para. 1 of the CPO six offers have been submitted to the following participants: First offer supposed to GBS Infrastructure Construction АД The second offer is supplied by Pazzardzhik 2021 with participants in the unification of PST Group, PstT Vidin and Novako Strojs Ltd. Third offer. sq.. United Geopath.. Pazardjik, with participants in the union................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Fourth offer with participants in the unification: "ISA 2000" Ltd., "Automagistrali "Black Sea" Plc. and "Traffic Holding" Ltd. Fifth offer The six-year offer is:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of the actions carried out by the Commission and on the basis of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 2 in relation to Art. 106, para. Article 6 in conjunction with Article 6 22, para. 1, t. 8, para. 5 of the Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority announced Decision No 70-37-682 of 22 June this year on the termination of the contract for the award of a contractor for the construction of a technical project. Participants in the procedure have been removed at the stage of consideration of a technical proposal. No price view has been reached since they do not meet the requirements laid down by the contracting authority in the procurement documents. All information concerning the examination and evaluation of tenders received under the contract, together with the reasons for assessing each technical proposal, shall be unlimitedly available in the buyer profile in the Centralised Automated Information System, called Currently, the Road Infrastructure Agency is taking action to open a new procedure for selecting a contractor for design and construction of the Western ring road of Pazardzhik. The public procurement shall be at the stage of the preparation of documentation for the award procedure and shall be announced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. Mrs. Zaharieva, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u283	I'll be very brief. I didn't care who the companies were, but I can see that there were six of them, and most of them are big and experienced companies, anyway. For me, as a person chosen by the inhabitants of the whole area and residing very often there, I am worried that I still have not heard a clear answer: when will it be completed? When will the new order start? You've decided that all these six huge associations don't meet the requirements. But I hope and I will continue to ask you, believe me, not only myself, but also the citizens of Pazardzhik: when will the new public procurement start? When will the inhabitants of the entire area have this Western tour of the ring road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Do you have an asshole, Minister Komitova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u285	I can say that when we know the exact date for completing this documentation, you will all understand it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. Minister Komitova has a question from Irena Dimova. Mrs. Dimova's question is related to suspended renovation activities in Montana region.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u287	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, as MP from Northwestern Bulgaria, I am worried about the actions of the API, namely the letter received to stop the renovation activities of the Republican road network on the territory of the Regional Road Management. I'm glad there's a positive response to our questions. I understand that from the introduction of my question to today's hearing, repairs have been restored in Montana County. However, the discrepancy in the state's actions is extremely disturbing to me as a people's representative, worrying to the residents of Montana, worrying to the performers companies as well. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following: have all the repair activities in Montana, in particular and on route III-816, actually started the repair activities and not just by letter? Can it be held responsible that it will not come to a new halt, that all roads will be completed in time, and are they mostly financially secured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u288	Thanks for asking. Minister Komitova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u289	Ladies and gentlemen! A few questions follow, all with similar problems. I would like to introduce you to the subject first, and then I have prepared written answers and folders of the relevant applicants with documents. Before I read Mrs. Dimova's reply from Montana, I would like to say the following thing that we found while dealing with the so-called topic on Current road repairs and road maintenance. We did a very serious analysis over the time we had, and first we established here I bring some of the documents: how many companies, how many roads are being repaired at the same time, what money and so on. The documents, of course, are much more. First, we have found that the.e. all these repairs are awarded by the Road Infrastructure Agency to n companies. They were awarded contracts in 2019, let's say by the end of the year the contracts were five years old, for 60 months. Therefore, 2020 is the first year of the implementation of these contracts. It's the second year. The way these contracts were awarded is through public procurement conducted in 2019 and respectively n companies have won contracts for ongoing maintenance and repair of the relevant roads in the relevant areas. What do we find in 2021? API budget for this type of activity........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... API budget 2021 This was voted in the previous National Assembly. API under these contracts makes commitments of 2 billion. 900,000. lv. For ongoing renovation and maintenance, of which one and a half billion must be mastered this year. " 2021" and the remaining half in 2022. How does this process happen? I'm setting an example. We have a public procurement contract here, no matter which firm, we will not quote the companies for 23 million. Seven hundred and sixty thousand. lv. with VAT and additional awards to a total of 295 million. So first, we have this big difference in the figures of 382 million, assigned tasks of 2 billion 900, we divide them in two years, 2021 and 2022. What did we see during this analysis? Clearly, this money is not planned in the budget for this year. It's clear to all of us. We started doing more thorough checks, started meeting with mayors, meeting companies, talking, looking for a solution. What did we find out? All of Bulgaria has been excavated! Initiate countless objects without financial collateral!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u290	Your time is over, Minister Komitova. If you want to finish your sentence. You've got time for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u291	I'm finishing up. To solve this issue, you have to do a few things. Firstly, I am definitely stopping construction because the most expensive construction is unfinished construction. Secondly, to secure in this budget a billion and a half this year. Thirdly, the most important thing I am addressing to you is that the National Assembly allows any minister or the Council of Ministers to make deviations from the Public Procurement Act, because one contract of 20 million with additional jobs cannot become 200 million! Mrs. Dimova's answer is written in the text what works on the roads in Montana. It's only about one time.III-816. The total value is 13 million, the implementation period is 31 May. To date, we have 13% of the jobs we've done, I've written them out very thoroughly. This way...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u292	Mrs. Komitova...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u293	...work firm is called PIM NIVEL, she had a contract of 19 million. Six hundred and eighty thousand. lv. With an additional 17 jobs, her contract has become 26 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u294	Please finish the answer already.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u295	That's it, I provide all the documents, the contracts, the protocols and the answer to the lady's question. Here you go. [[Leaves the folder on the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u296	Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u297	Dear Minister, I am saddened that you spent more than five minutes in the whole of Bulgaria and again the Northwest was on the side and there were no specific answers. My question was as follows: thank you for III-816: will all repairs in Montana region be completed because this is vital for this region -- vital for development, for increasing incomes and for everything that accompanies road infrastructure? Will efforts be made in this direction to complete what has been started and not to stop, as so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u298	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Madam Minister, I'm only asking for the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u299	Of course, all repairs must be completed, I said, under two conditions a billion and a half should be provided in the update of the budget for this year and the National Assembly should take action to allow any government to violate the Public Procurement Act, as all these contracts are negotiated in more than 50%.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u300	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva to Minister Komitova about stopping the construction of the road Pazardzhik Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva. All I'm asking is for us to fit into the regulated time so everyone can have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u301	We're in, Madam President. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's a similar case. It is about the construction of one of the busiest roads in extremely bad condition. At one point, by letter to all of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and from the API any construction activity is stopped. On Tuesday I was on this road, which takes time and about 20 minutes from Pazardzhik to Belovo is taken for about 50 minutes. Not to mention going through a number of settlements, not to mention heavy machinery, inert materials, dug-out pavements that are currently left on the road, how they endanger life and health in the settlements of those who are walking along the road, because because of the repairs the pavements are also dug up, and of those who are moving by cars on the road, how much more money and time it takes. You partly answered before that anyway. One question was: on what grounds did you stop? When's it gonna go on? How will life and health be guaranteed? How will the time and resources of citizens traveling along this road be compensated as a result of the delay in construction and repair activities? This is Mrs. Avramova, I think she will explain in more detail, but these are framework contracts. I am glad that you explained that they are after public procurement, at unit prices, for ongoing maintenance and repair, as you correctly explained. These entrusted activities are not in breach of the Public Procurement Act at all, but on the contrary. They are concluded as framework precisely because, when funds are provided, the performance of the prices that are on them can be directly assigned in five years. This is a practice around the world that provides predictability after public procurement, I stress, and security, and it has been since 2000. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Madam Secretary, come in. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u303	Mrs. Zaharieva, there is a contract in your response. It's not a framework now. It's not a framework contract. It's a fixed price contract. So the contestants were playing a public service. The price of, for example, 20 million in your case, initially 18 million 720 thousand, with additional assignments that I have put you in the folder, has increased to date to 320 million, without financial security. [[Office Minister Violeta Komitova shows documents. Applause by IHN.]] Regarding the suspension of the orders, it was a misunderstanding that the Apostle Minchev of API committed. The idea of this stop was to check all the construction started and if there are non-starts, not to start, as there is no billion and a half planned in the budget that you predicted last year, and the whole of Bulgaria was dug up and then, one week later, we broadcast a message to all district managers. These letters are placed here with you to see what we have written, first, Apostol Minchev how he stops, in all the folders what we then write and how we have already decided in API that we will not assign such activities without providing funding. With regard to your path, I deeply understand how important it is for all citizens this time. I don't share the citizens of Montana in Pazardzhik. All citizens are our people. These roads belong to the entire Bulgarian people and the money belongs to the entire Bulgarian people, but thanks to what you have done, the contracts have been negotiated in many, many times. The 18 million public procurement law allows up to 50% increase, not from 18 million to 320 million, and that is why there is no money in the budget at the moment, but I will not comment on it, it is not my job. That is why today we are facing this situation. Maybe you're testing me where we're gonna get a billion and a half? I'm in charge of a billion and a half for these repairs had to be planned in the budget from last year. Regional Minister Komitova doesn't give out billions. So today this billion and a half is not planned. API's budget is 380 million and is spent by April 27th this year. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u304	Thank you, Minister Komitova. Mrs. Zaharieva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u305	Madam Minister, I don't care who the firm is, nor do I know it. [[Noise and lines from IHN.]] What I've heard is that construction has been started under all the rules, which has been stopped, as you yourself have said, even without your knowledge, knowledge and so on. I'm glad you've rebuilt the construction. I hope this is de facto the case, not only through the letter, but actually the construction started, I will see on Monday, as I will be back in the area. I know that you, the Minister of Regional Development, do not provide the money, but I do have the question "If you know what the need is, you know what the condition is, in fact you have allowed money to be taken from API, which you still claim is much greater. As a regional minister, you should have defended API's budget, not allowed it to be taken, for important road arteries. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u306	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. For the doppelganger, Minister Komitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u307	Very bad suggestions that I'm taking from API's money. I'm not in a position to take money or give, first. Secondly, at a time of government in the budget, quite often transformations are made from a feather, free funds are taken to solve some urgent needs. The money from the API, which was taken, was about the highway, not about the current repair and road maintenance, where a billion and a half were needed, first and second, there was no need to give to the highway, because you know that there is 13% performance, and 73% given in advance money.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u308	Thank you. There is a question addressed to Minister Komitova from Gunay Heusmen concerning preventive repairs of road sections of the Republic of Bulgaria's Republic of Bulgaria road network, which is situated on the territory of Razgrad District Road Management. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u309	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Minister of the Service! After approval of a technical assignment in the spring began very important rehabilitations of road sections of three important road arteries, namely Targovishte And they really started real activities on these sections. However, according to letter No 53-0071-18 of 19 July 2021 of engineer Apostol Minchev, Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, all repair activities carried out on the territory of Regional Road Management Razgrad until further notice have been terminated. A few days ago unhappy citizens from the poor state of the Republican road network in the nearby villages, in the surrounding villages of Bisserci, Zvanartsi and Bojurovo went out to protest on the Kubrat road Tutrakan, because the problem is with a 12-km stretch has not been repaired for more than 50 years. In this regard, I am very concerned about the poor condition of road sections in the territory of Razgrad, which threaten the safety, life and health of the inhabitants of the district, as a citizen and a Member of the National Assembly, and I am asking you the following question: within what time will you take the necessary action for reconstruction and repair of the road Chereshovo Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u310	Thank you, Mr Hughesman. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u311	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hughesmen, I am also worried that all roads have begun and are nowhere. You've asked us for four ways......................................................................................................................................................................... I'm not gonna read you the whole answer, I did it in writing. You know the repairs have been suspended, and we've reopened them with another letter. Your letters are in the file. And I have to tell you that, according to our deadlines, all these sections must be completed within the prescribed deadline, namely for the 9th kilometer per section road II-49 by the end of September this year, for the 18th kilometer on the road II-49 and road III-2102 by the end of 2021, and for the road III-4902 by the end of September 2022. Accordingly, all activities in this case are carried out again by one company Consortium It wins a 15 million 360 contract and then with 10 jobs this order swells to 57 million and something, which is why today we are facing this shortage of money. So we believe that work should continue, and the National Assembly should take care of the provision of funds that are not in the budget from now on. I provide you with the contract to award a contract in your area, I provide you with the assignments with which they have been agreed, the letters with which we have stopped and released, and your written reply accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. Mr Hughesman, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u313	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I am satisfied with the answer, hoping that what you are saying will indeed be a fact, because citizens of Razgrad have been in holes for 50 years and perhaps we are the most backward area in terms of road infrastructure. All of what you say, as an increase in amounts, this has been almost every year so and always fulfilled the commitments. I hope you really hold on to what you said, because otherwise, as I said this morning, I will make a reasonable assumption that there will be protests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u314	Thank you. Do you have a back? You don't. There is a question for Minister Komitova from Galya Zhelyazkova, Denitsa Nikolova and Zhecho Stankov concerning stopping preventive road repairs from the Republican road network on the territory of Burgas region. Here you go, Mrs. Iron.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u315	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, colleagues! Madam Minister, you say that all Bulgaria and dug up. That's a fact because our government was working. I've never had a case where, as a representative of the people, I didn't go on a date or have a reception day and people weren't interested in roads or infrastructure. That is why the great interest in you is in us as MPs, because infrastructure is important to our country. By order of the Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, repair activities were stopped, which are being carried out on the territory of Regional Road Management Burgas. Our area is the largest territory in the country. The sudden suspension of preventive repairs in already and underway activities and some of these activities are implemented at 100%, created tensions and endangers the lives and health of people who move on these roads every day. The biggest concern of the residents of Burgas region are the roads. The economic development of the region is also directly dependent on the additional infrastructure, especially when we are in the summer season at the moment. In this regard, our initial question with colleagues Denitsa Nikolova and Zhecho Stankov to you was: on what basis are preventive repairs suspended? You were able to answer that question to those who spoke before me. What we want to know and you to confirm us from the stands is: does it mean that after the order for the suspension of repairs has been revoked, they will continue, will be completed and is there guaranteed funding for them, which will ensure the security of road support companies, some of which have implemented their activities to 100% of the activities entrusted to them have completed them 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. Minister Komitova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u317	Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, dear Mrs. Nikolova, dear Mr. Stankov! The case is identical to the previous cases. It's a whole topic of questions. You're asking for Route III-359, Route III-5392. I've given you the most detailed information. Road III-6008, road III-359, which is already implemented in 80%, road III-7006 supplied to 50% of the work must be completed in November 2021, and the previous time must be completed in November 2021, road III-7908s carried out 40% of the planned work and so on. You have that in writing. We all know about the Apostle Minchev's letter of 19 July 2021. It was to be reviewed, I repeat, uninitiated constructions, so that we do not start them because I understand that you did not understand where the funding is being provided. A billion and a half are needed, which must be provided from the state budget, with API's planned 382 million from last year's budget. Therefore, money is not provided by any regional minister, but by the budget. Accordingly, in your case works a company consortium of "TRP Burgas 2019" under a contract for a contract of 30 million with 30 jobs and swells to 73 million. I am offering you all these documents and I am asking you a very serious question. [[Shows the documents.]] Even in the contracts it says that they are not financially secured and so on and so forth, but you will get acquainted with these documents in detail. Now the question is that we have companies working on jobs that are not given any money. So you have a 30 million contract, API gives you another 50 million to build, and you don't want any money, and you keep building. Companies can stop building any time they want, because they work here for free. To my question, how come you're taking on a 50 million-dollar task on your contract? What's the risk? And they answer me: well, at the end of the year we expect with ministerial decrees to be paid for these constructions, as happened at the end of 2020. But I assure you that even if there is money today and with ministerial decrees to pay off the activities carried out, they all go against the contract when they exceed more than 50% of the value of this contract. [[Shows the contract.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. Mrs. Zhelyazkova for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u319	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Madam Minister, I hope that you, as a regional minister at the moment, will really fight and take action so that the roads can be completed, which have started their construction, and that the companies that have worked really get paid for the costs they have done, because that is fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u320	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly why I intend to fight against these violations that we have found. There should be no unfinished construction in Bulgaria. I deeply share the belief that the most expensive construction is unfinished construction. I deeply share the belief that all our areas need these roads. You don't have to convince me that there's a need for this infrastructure. I deeply believe that these are the paths of all Bulgarian citizens and that money should be found from the budget to cover these accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. There is a question received from Krasen Krastev and Petya Avramova concerning suspended repairs in the territory of Vratsa region. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u323	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, by letter from the Chairman of the Board of Directors of API on 19 July all types of renovation activities in the territory of the Regional Road Administration were suspended until further notice, and as you have all understood, so it is throughout the country. The condition of road sections in repair creates both discomfort for road vehicles, as is the prerequisite for road accidents and material damage. Our question to you is, Madam Minister: since when will the actual repair activities of the roads from the Republican road network be rebooted on the territory of Vratsa district? The residents of Devene sofa Vratsa, Gorna Kremena, Mezdra municipality, where there was also a protest recently, Popitsa, Birkachevo, Vranjak, Gabare, Drashan Madam Minister, I'd be grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u324	Thanks for asking, Mr. Krastev. Minister Komitova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u325	Dear Mrs. Miteva, Mr. Krastev, honourable colleague Avramova, I have answered your question very thoroughly. It is about nine roads: road I, II-11, which is filled here I am very pleasantly surprised, the roads in Vratsa region are filled with a very high percentage of 90%, to date. Road II-13 Montana "Vratsa performance 55%, road III-103. 67%, road III-103 second division. 95%, road III-134. 63% performance to date, road III-308. 97%, road III-308. 5%, activities started only by cleaning, road III-1004. 65%, road III-1301. 70%, road III-1306.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The case is identical to all other cases. Started with a contract for procurement, here's the contract. [[Shows the contract.]] The contractor is the North-West DZDC Association, the contract is from December 2019 and last year begins to be built. The contract is five years old, under this contract we will build five years, the value of the contract is 22 million with 49 jobs here I have applied them in the folder, the contract increases to 67 million. [[Shows the contract.]] And in the end, it is once again insecure with funding. What can I tell you? I'm also concerned about your ways. I am convinced that they create an inconvenience for our citizens, but not a single minister, not Minister Komitova, not Minister Avramova, not anyone who comes to the next government, can provide a billion and a half if this is not decided through the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. And the second question is: even if someone provided that money, how would you get out of the situation where a 20 million contract swelled five times? We have a right of 20 million to do it on a public contract, I say, not any contract, because this way of doing it turns public procurement into nothing. It didn't make sense to play a public contract where it had an exact value inside. The value of the contract is precisely indicated, this is not a framework contract. Thus, a competitive advantage has been given to some companies, not to mention the market economy, not to mention other damage that has occurred, so this is the situation. Companies continue to work honestly on jobs, without money. They expect, however, at the end of this year to receive their money with ministerial decrees, as happened at the end of 2020. [[Office Minister Violeta Komitova transmits the folder to the MP Petya Avramova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u326	Thank you, Minister Komitova. For a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u327	Dear Madam President, Minister Komitova, honourable Members! First, I would like to reassure Minister Komitova that the contracts are not of a marginal price and have such an opinion of lawyers. It is located either in the Road Infrastructure Agency and in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, it can be requested and made available to you so that you can be calm about the award of contracts concluded that have unit prices of activities within the budget of the coming years where the Road Infrastructure Agency has a sound budget. Secondly, for the budget. The assignment that the Road Infrastructure Agency is doing is always with an annual task. You are right that companies at their risk have always worked more than the annual task assigned to them because we all know that the state of the road infrastructure, and you have also seen the API reports, it is not good that we have all worked hard in time, and you are now confirming that the state of the Republican road network should be improved and that the annual budgets, which are established for API, are less than the needs in all parts of Bulgaria. That's why there are so many questions about the suspensions. I have been Minister of Regional Development for two years, I have always received support as Minister and Understanding from the Finance Ministry and such funds have always been provided further to the API budget so that most of the problems can be resolved. I know this can't happen in a year. Here in this Chamber as a minister I have been asked a thousand questions about the state of the sections of the Republican road network and we have always sought options to solve the relevant problems. And on the subject of the suspended repairs, Minister Komitova, because in the public space and in the media, when the repairs were stopped in the whole country, this topic was somehow tied to the theme about the tunnel below.Shipka., which is actually a big and important project for the connection between North and South Bulgaria. I think that's probably speculation about firing the head of API, stopping repairs and...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u328	Mrs. Avramova...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u329	I am simply giving you the opportunity to dispel the speculation that this object will be stopped because it is placed as the first object in the new Transport Programme 2021 - 2027 - which is to be financed by European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u330	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Minister Komitova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u331	Mrs. Avramova, there was a special committee on the tunnel under the Shipka, I think it was July 14th and it came up with a solution. We're preparing an answer right now. I think Mr. Tomislav Donchev has sent it to us, you will get it in writing, but because it was for a longer period, not for the 30th, I cannot answer you at the moment more specifically.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u332	Thank you, Minister Komitova. There is a question from the National Representative Dani Kanazireva concerning suspended infrastructure projects in the territory of Plovdiv region.. also to Minister Komitova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u333	Mrs. Chairman! Mrs. Komitova, please reply to me in connection with the suspended projects in Plovdiv region. The truth is that this chaos was caused by the very leadership of the Ministry, as we have all received letters to stop extremely important projects for the territory of each area. There was a dismissal of the head of API and, sorry, you said there was no funds, but you fired him for paying off funds to his friendly companies. This chaos has caused total ambiguity in every region, including Plovdiv district. De facto, which projects will be implemented, who will be stopped, and those who are implemented, in what part will they be carried out accordingly? I have detailed the projects in my questioning about the territory of Plovdiv region. I ask you very much to answer me specifically and clearly: which of them will continue, in which part and really what will be API's plan for the territory of Plovdiv district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Minister Komitova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u335	Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, your detailed question is answered in the same way for all the activities you have asked for. Preventive repair of III-861 for 45 million are currently implemented 80%, we have written what has been done, for road II-86 "what has been done," for road I-6 Sofia we have said 12% performance. We have one road that is in a very initial phase of the II-58, 5% road. Road III-862 - 15% implementation, the values of contracts and activities are described. Road III-667, value of the contract - 31 million - must be completed by the end of September 2022. Road III-8006 - for eight million, completed at the time 14 km, is also being implemented at the moment. We also have a technical project for leading roads, providing access, connection of the affected properties to the reconstructed route of road II-86 Plovdiv - Asenovgrad, with a total length of 10 km. We have also responded to you about the road II-56.. Road node Skobeleva mother, and so on and so forth. And for a reinforcement of a landslide, which is located at the Pervenets, Lilkovo, km 8. All these activities are carried out by a company called the "Speed Roads" AD with a contract of 21 October 2019. The value of the contract is 28 million. With 37 jobs the contract becomes 256 million. [[Applause from IHN.]] I've put your contract in the folder to get to know you, because here it's claimed that these are framework contracts and so on. This is a public procurement contract for exactly 28 million. Eight hundred and eighty thousand. lv. with a period of six months. This thing is exactly quoted in art. 6 and there is one exception to the contract 8: In the case of a............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In other words, the contract allows for additional award, but within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. I'm sorry, I don't want to comment on legal matter. There are many lawyers here, perhaps you will rule on stopping the construction works and launching by API. The case is the same: the suspension and launch of these constructions depends solely on the good will of the companies that work without financial collateral. It's very strange why they started running these errands without financial insurance? There is no answer to that question. They really said in the meetings with me that they would rely at the end of the year on surpluses with ministerial decrees to cover this account, as was done in the previous year. That's it. [[Mister Violeta Komitova provides a folder to the MP Danny Kanazireva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u336	Thank you, Minister Komitova. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. I am absolutely not satisfied with the answer that you have given, as you have actually formally responded and listed what has happened and has been fulfilled so far. Colleagues, in connection with your applause, in relation to increasing the amounts from 28 to 200 million, for example, I cannot quote an amount, I will tell you that as a then regional governor with our entire team, we have really fought and defended the interests of our area not to make 30 km, which was initially, but to do and launch projects for over 200 km in the territory of Plovdiv region, a large part of which go through hard-to-reach and mountain areas, through which there is not only no corresponding gauge, but there are places where there is even no asphalt. These are road arteries that duplicate the only roads, for example, that connect Plovdiv region with Smolyan region. And I am sure that you, as MPs from your regions, if you have the opportunity to bet in the draft budget, be it on the MPD, be it on the API or anywhere on the state budget, funds for your regions and instead of 20 km to be able to lobby to do 200 km, I am sure that each of you will do it. In fact, these projects really, despite the severe pandemic situation that we all went through last year, my team and I have fought for our area to be far more projects and repairs, and to build new roads that people use not only from the Plovdiv region but also from neighboring regions. Mrs. Komitova, I will continue and will insist that I actually get an answer and the full program that you are betting for this year for Plovdiv region.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u339	Since even if you cut projects, we in our region want to know who remains, who will be finished and...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u340	Your time, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u341	...on what time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u342	Thank you. You have the floor for the duvet.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u343	Mrs. Kanazireva, I have no intention of cutting any projects. This is clear and clear. I've said three times everything you've done in your time, not in my time, has to be completed, I'm deeply convinced. In terms of lobbying. I understand your great concern for your region, from which you are a member of parliament, but if I were a member of parliament, I could also lobby for a region. Do you know how this lobbying works? I'm from API 50 jobs, say, I'm from nowhere, like Smolyan County. 50 jobs, unsecured, with no money from the API of the company concerned, which has been designated winter support since 2019, and I am starting to lobby for my area. [[Applause from IHN.]] But that's lobbying? Therefore, tasks that are unsecured with money in construction are desirable to avoid because we will get to unfinished construction. I'm not in a position to stop companies if they think... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Wait a minute! Companies, if they judge, can stop because they have worked so far without money and expect money at the end of the year, as happened in 2020. Minister Avramova knows this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u344	Thank you. The questions to Minister Komitova are over. There is a question addressed to the Minister of Culture Velislav Minekov from the MPs Hristo Gazhev and Toma Bikov. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u345	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minekov, I am glad that you are here and will answer our question and we will find time within this meeting. However, out of the three questions that I have asked you, you will be able to answer this question within a week, after one week you have not been able to say what is the composition of your office, but I hope that we will receive this information next week. My question is prompted by a delay in the adoption of the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Film Industry, which was adopted in the 44th National Assembly, prepared by the Ministry of Culture. Until this Wednesday, he was aged in the archives of the Ministry of Culture and now on July 28th, that is, two days ago, on Wednesday, was adopted by the Council of Ministers something that was extremely late because it blocked the implementation of the Law and the financing of the film industry in Bulgaria. Obviously, the question of whether you will submit it and whether it will be accepted has dropped out since it has already been accepted by the Council of Ministers, but it is important for me to understand why it took so long? Are there any changes that you have made as a minister in the draft Rules itself? And in the end, how do you plan to apply it from now on, because two months of delay may have taken place, to say it completely insufficiently to some film industries, to give up filmmaking in the Republic of Bulgaria and to see if it will now come into effect? It is important for us to understand why this delay has been reached and why has it suddenly come so quickly within a week and is agreed by the Council of Ministers so that it can be adopted this Wednesday? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u346	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u347	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, of course, the main answer to your question consists in one sentence. "Your question is too late. The draft Decree of the Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the Rules for Implementation of the Law on the Film Industry was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2021, Wednesday, which passed. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] No, it's not after the questioning. It's just that after everything that's been done, so that the Rules of Procedure can show up and the law can finally go. I remember that the Law was the work of your fellow MP, the artist Evgeni Budinov. He was basically, but unfortunately, things started back then with the delay. As for the Rules, I live with people who are part of the creators and part of the workers in the film industry. Even though it may seem strange to you, I have been a member of the Union of Bulgarian filmmakers since 1987 and this is the vast majority of my friends. I'm glad it worked out this way, I'm glad that on Wednesday, if you've noticed, white smoke, habemus, the rules have sprung from the chimney of the Council of Ministers! Congratulations on the film industry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u348	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. For a line? Excuse me, before you include the time, the ministers who are here for answers will give themselves answers to the questions they are asked. So those who want to hear and join, please stay in the room. I mean, the time of parliamentary control is not extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u349	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Minister of the Service, honourable Members! One clarification. First of all, this law is not Evgeni Budinov's. He was prepared by the Ministry of Culture, then entered the National Assembly. In the Committee on Culture we had a lot of conversations with the representatives of the film industry and filmmakers and so on. After all, the result was that this law was adopted with full consensus by both the Commission and the plenary. These were both colleagues from BSP, from DPS, and from the United Patriarchs and GERB, and from Volya. So this happens very rarely in principle in the work of the National Assembly. Secondly, this law, I have heard that your colleague Kiril Petkov, boasted that Walt Disney and Netflix have taken an interest in the Bulgarian film industry and intend to invest at all. Yeah, that's true, but it's been a year and a half. One of the reasons we adopted this law was precisely this interest and the delay in the Rules, I do not know if it has been changed by the option in which it was drawn up, two or three months ago, whether it has any significant change that you have had to delay it for so long, but this delay is a bad sign in principle to such investors, and it is good that you still brought it into the Council of Ministers. I hope we do not miss the notification deadlines, because if this happens, we risk having a zero year for Bulgarian cinema instead of the Bulgarian film industry being given 40 million. lv. To this I would add that, in addition to consensus, this is to the colleagues of "There is such a people" that I have heard that they have critical statements regarding this law, the main work, and very good work, was done on the creation of this law by Mrs. Iva Miteva. She was then head of the Legal Directorate and I say it without any sense of irony. We worked together on this law and it was indeed the basis of these legislative texts. If there's a problem with the law...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u350	Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u351	...everyone can, of course, get an amendment, but this is not the work of the caretaker government. The caretaker government is a short, temporary government that only has to manage the processes without reforms, if possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u352	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For the coat, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u353	Thank you, Mr. Bikov, for your opinion, but I didn't hear a question. Actually, your opinion is wrong. It's about this rulebook, which was totally fucked up by the previous government. Thanks to us, to the caretaker government, today we gave the green light to Bulgarian cinema and to the Bulgarian film industry. That makes me happy. If we had let you finish it, there would have been no film productions probably another year ahead, so once again the creators of the Bulgarian cinema congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u354	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. There is a question addressed to the Minister of the Environment and Waters Mr. Assen Litchev from Rositsa Kirova and Irena Dimova concerning EIA procedure for pre-investment survey of a route along the direction of Montana
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u355	I'll allow myself to be brief. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, when I asked the question, there was no movement in relation to the award of the environmental impact assessment on the pre-investment survey for a route along the direction of Montana, Sofia with a tunnel under Petrohan. On yesterday, I received a copy of your decision to issue such an assessment. I met him, and I don't think we need to waste any time. Thank you, however, for your reaction. Two months I've been writing letters to you on the fact that it's time that you canceled the decision with which you stopped this pre-investment project, to assign EIA, because the waste of time and these three months while we were waiting for the award, it matters about when they will continue and how they will continue the procedures. I asked you the question: on what grounds did you decide that this project would have an extremely negative impact on the environment? But I think it's right, if we have to be correct, to wait for the Environmental Impact Assessment Report. Because otherwise we will speak many words that do not mean anything and are based on someone's assumptions or statements, without having in mind, first of all, how important this project is for the whole of Northwestern Bulgaria. Secondly, we all want the environment to be preserved, but the life and well-being of Bulgarian citizens also matter, and they are directly related to infrastructure and those projects that have been neglected for many years. When I say: many years, I refer to that the tunnel under Petrohan as a project is more than 113 years old, as an idea in the Bulgarian public space, and it is definitely important for the development of a region that dies without it. I sincerely hope that you will have the will and the desire to make the EIA procedure as accelerated as possible, once it has been commissioned, and to go about solving a matter from which all our lives will become better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u356	Thank you. Minister Lichev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u357	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Kirova, thank you for praising me in practice and I have no reason to answer. The procedure is as fast as possible. The API submitted an investment proposal on 14 July and I gave the decision on 28 July. On 29 July there is already published on the information website and dashboard of Montana Municipality investment proposal. There are already three options from which one is quite acceptable in terms of the route, so we just need to make our fellow citizens happy and here we have already opened an underground tunnel to the Northwest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u358	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u359	Thank you, too, Minister. We've had three options for over a year. They've been working for them for the last three years. There is a decision which is most environmentally friendly based on the report by the company that has developed before the investment survey. There have been many public discussions that we have had over the last three years after the protest actions of the citizens of the Northwest, who in some form managed to make it possible to talk again about the tunnel under Petrohan. These three options have long been known. All affected municipalities and all affected institutions are concerned and one that would be the most sparing not only in terms of the environment but also in terms of road safety and economic development of the region is chosen. The very publication of these options and the reaction of API, which has just been absent for the past three months, I'm going to jump over them, it doesn't matter. After all, you in this government should communicate between the institutions. I hope this happens more actively with each next one, and when he forgets, I'll be there for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u360	Here you are, Minister Lichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u361	I'm running, not to slow you down, because you have more important work to do to make a government, to accept the updated budget. But what you said to me, you're throwing me a ball that I owe you an answer to. API, which was, we found it before.. by Borisov 3, submitted us a proposal which did not contain the three options. That is why my colleagues have offered me a decision to terminate the procedure. Then the API brought what you knew. Then you should have told them to bring in a good option. So once again, I wish you good luck in the Northwest!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u362	Just one second. One option was introduced because it was approved by the National Expert Economic Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u363	Ma'am, there's no such procedure under the EPA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u364	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u365	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u366	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u367	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, I would like to ask you to tell me on what grounds parliamentary control continues after 2:00, provided that there is no explicit decision of the National Assembly to continue parliamentary control after this hour of call? I suppose you know that in art. 48, para. 1 of the Rules explicitly fixed the end of the working day on Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u368	Yes, I'm aware of that, Mr. Nenkov. But since the ministers are here, between the leadership we agreed to give you the opportunity to hear the answers. If you think you don't want to hear the answers...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u369	There are rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u370	Yeah, I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u371	What does management mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u372	Then let's not go any further, shall we?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u373	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u374	Here you are, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u375	Madam President, honourable Members! Please explain exactly what you mean by agreeing to violate the Rules of the National Assembly? It didn't make sense to me. Please explain it to me in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u376	The explanation I can give is that we have received an instruction from the President's office in the presence of the ministers, if they wish, to hear the answers. I just told you this. You didn't react. If you wish, we can abort.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u377	Let's vote on it. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u378	No. You can vote within an hour before the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u379	In that case, we must have stopped.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u380	Okay, abort.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u381	I suppose you feel proud of what you're doing?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u382	Then let's announce the closing of the meeting. With an apology to the Minister of Energy, whose answers may be... [[Reply from President Eva Miteva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u383	Because time was not extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u384	It's not prolonged. Why is Control continuing?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u385	You said it. That's what your vice-president said. He said you decided on the Chairman's Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u386	No, we didn't have the chairmanship council.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u387	That's not true. There's no such thing. Maybe it's because the ministers were here, so it's decided.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-30.u388	Yeah, yeah. I explained that half an hour ago. We're adjourned.
