ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u1	Good morning, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u3	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. We begin with a hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the concession at Sofia Airport. Importer is the national representative Ivaylo Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u4	For procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u5	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u6	Thank you, Madam President. In connection with the closing of yesterday's meeting due to the running out of time and the commitment made by Mrs. Vasileva as chairman, that today we will have the opportunity to listen to the energy minister, my request is that you put to the vote the move of item 3 on the agenda so that it can be after hearing the current minister, because the topic is extremely important, it is related to transposition of European legislation, which is structurally defining for the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u7	That is, since we have a fixed point first, second and third for today, you want point two, which was fixed yesterday for today, to move it with point three.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u8	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u9	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've been doing reverse procedure, not for anything else, but for three weeks now, the executive director of the Forest Agency has been coming into this room, sitting on the balcony, and he's not getting enough time to come to a hearing. If we move this one more time today, it'll be the fourth week. Either we say the man doesn't come and go to work, or I'm just asking you to listen to him for the fourth week, at least once.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u11	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. In that case, I will propose that, after the Minister of Transport, the next point on the proposal made to be the Minister of Energy, point three, remain the Executive Director of the Forest Agency, and point two, which has been fixed for today the hearing of the Minister of Environment, become point four. Am I to understand the proposal that has been made?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u13	I have a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u14	It's the opposite.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u15	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, welcome! Now for the second time, I have a feeling you'll be waiting a few hours to get your turn. Madam President, I will propose that the Minister of Energy's hearing be dropped completely. If in the National Assembly we have nothing to do and we are wondering how and in what way to find some topic to deal with, I will only tell you that yesterday, when we received the agenda, I read item three, which says that we will be listening to the Minister of Energy in connection with Directive 2018/2011. There's no such directive. We have been searching for long and wide, and it has proved that there is a Decision 2018/2011 of the European Council, which reads: A decision to support the integration of policies, programmes and actions for gender equality in the fight against trafficking and the abuse of small arms in accordance with the Women's, Peace and Security Programme. I couldn't find any member. [[Laughter and applause from DPS and GERB-SDS]] I couldn't find anything different from that outrage you're offering us. Very please, those who offer an agenda, if they are not familiar with the subject, do not offer it. Therefore, I propose that the hearing of the Minister of Energy be dismissed, he is already not familiar with energy, but with gender equality even more. Thank you. [[Laughter and applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u17	Mr. Atalay, if we don't support Mr. Stankov's proposal, it practically remains as the fourth point, we won't get to him. You know, we have parliamentary control tomorrow all day. You want me to vote explicitly to drop point three. Is that how I understand your offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u18	I suggest that you put the item to the vote very seriously and that those who are offering us an agenda should get acquainted with the documents and the directives they propose to us so that we are a very serious institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u19	Thank you. I will put your proposal to the vote first, as it is the furthest from the agenda for dropping item three. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, technical error has been made. The Directive is 2018/2001 of the European Union and it actually enters into force from 11 December 2018. It should have been transposed into our Bulgarian legislation on 30 June 2021. This is the deadline which is stated in the directive itself. With the failure to comply with the deadline, the Bulgarian state tolerates sanctions. So I consider it irrelevant, respectively, that my colleague's proposal to drop point three should remain for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u21	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal made by Ramadan Atalay for dropping item three from the agenda. Vote 187 MPs: 62 against 112 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Stankov for the first point of the hearing of the Minister of Transport, the second point of the hearing of the Minister of Energy, the third point of the hearing of the Executive Director of the Forestry Executive Agency, and the fourth point of the hearing of the Minister of Environment and Water, so to replace the hearings. Please, voting mode. They voted 193 MPs: 136 against 25, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. We begin with the Minister of Transport's hearing. Please have the importer make a brief statement of the questions, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u22	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we're sorry you waited a few hours last time, but you couldn't get to that point. The concession at Sofia airport is actually the order with the largest government archive in the previous management of Boyko Borisov and therefore deserves special attention. He deserves it because some strange things have happened to him that don't usually happen in our country. The concession was given in July 2020, then the owner, who is the company that won the concession, was ranked third in a rather strange way. Although it offered a much lower concession fee, it was actually ranked and only by this move of the Bulgarian state we lost 300 million. BGN, i.e. only from the choice of concessionaire. So in the last year we couldn't figure out who was behind Sof Connect. It is the company that won the concession. Behind it, it owns another company, which actually manages an investment fund. But since the airport is part of the country's national security, it is a strategic site, we need to know who is actually the real owner behind it. So far, there is no such answer, although we have sent to all ministries, to the services asking who is the real owner behind the concessionaire at Sofia airport. There are a lot of odds about the concession itself. I'll say one that's quite indicative. According to the requirement, a participant in the company that wins the concession must be an airport operator. There isn't one. There is a consultant, which is Munich Airport and which does not in any way meet the requirements of the procedure itself, which means that the government has this concession and that choice has in any way been favored. However, the big issue arose in winter when the government, with a great march, decided to simplify half a billion leva, that is, to postpone half a billion leva concession fee to the concessionaire for the next 10 years. The feature is that this concession fee will be paid from the 26th year. The concession is 35 years, it will be paid by the 26th. You all know that when they give you half a billion today, after 26 years this half a billion is a small part of its real value to date. This did not happen at the other concessionated airports in Bulgaria, which received only one year extension. The same thing happened to businesses that had loans in the country. They also received a year. But Sofia airport receives 10 years, with the argument being a kind of crisis. Either the previous government, here is full of its ministers, there was information that the Kovid crisis would last 10 years and decided for 10 years to simplify the concessionaire's fee, or it was something else related to the drawers. The questions the concession raises are extremely serious because only so far the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian taxpayer, is at minus 800 million. BGN, without the previous prime minister coming out with some solid argument to explain why this thing is happening. Airports in Varna and Burgas, which are also on concession, have received a one-year extension and this is logical. The same is happening, by the way, in other European countries. The argument is clear.. a kind of crisis and collapse in aviation, but this does not happen with Sofia airport. Sofia Airport receives a postponement for 10 years, and, notice, the money will be paid from 26th to 35th year, not after 10th year, i.e. maximum good conditions to the concessionaire himself. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we would be interested in you to tell us what you have done since you are a minister of service and the point of view of the Ministry regarding this concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u23	Thank you. Minister, you have ten minutes to inform the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, I will try to provide you with information about this concession in its entirety. The procedure for the selection of concessionaire has been completed, has been the subject of a judicial appeal, the choice of concessionaire has been confirmed by both the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court. The concession contract was signed, as Mr. Mirchev correctly noted, last July as it was announced in advance to all participants in the concession award procedure itself, in accordance with the provision of art. 122, para. 1 of the Law on concessions. Concessioner is the company "Sof Connect" JSC. The participants in the company are: Meridiam Eastern Europe Investments.SAC 98.98 percent, Meridiam Investments.SAC.01.0%, Meridiam Infrastructure Europe III. Munich Airport, as the only five-star airport in Europe, has committed itself to taking part in the management of Sofia airport under the concession contract and direct commitment to the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The Contracting Parties have fulfilled the so-called ex ante conditions and the concessionaire has taken over effective management at the airport on 19 April this year. For this purpose, the concessionaire received the certificates and licences required under the Civil Aviation Act in order to be able to operate Sofia Airport without delay and fully. The contracts are signed with the public users, with all employees and employees at Sofia airport who have switched to the concessionaire. The concessionaire paid the initial concession fee of 281 million. Two hundred and 535 euros without VAT. These are the funds that have been made directly into the state budget. The Commission's Directorate-General for Competition issued a letter concluding in advance to the Commission services that the concession contract and its planned amendment did not grant State aid to the designated concessionaire at Sofia airport. The project is financed as follows: European Bank for Reconstruction and Development EUR; Black Sea Trade and Development Bank EUR; the International Financial Corporation, which is part of the World Bank Group, is 30 million. EUR; European Investment Bank (EIF) 40 million EUR, the agreement was signed a week ago; Bank Societe General EUR, UniCredit Bulbank EUR; Communist Credit Bank Euros. About the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Bank officially announced its inclusion in the concession project at Sofia airport a week ago, except with the lending of 50 million. EUR, also with a direct capital investment of 74,3 million. EUR, gaining indirect participation in the company "Sof Connect." In order to monitor the implementation of the concession contract, I have set up a committee for control, as required by the Law on concessions. As Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, I made several meetings with the concessionaires at Sofia Airport. At the same time, I expressed the lack of satisfaction from the state of the airport at this time. I have explicitly and categorically stated that I expect and insist on quick and visible results from the concessionaire at the airport. At present, three months have passed since taking over the management of Sofia airport by the For this period, the concessionaire had and fulfilled the following commitments. In line with its obligation under the contract, the concessionaire prepared and submitted within those three months from the start of the concession, a plan for maintenance and renewal in accordance with the idea plan proposed in its tender. The concessionaire has drawn up and submitted to the concession a quarterly progress report within the 30-day period provided for under the contract after the end of the first quarter. The concession holder submitted to the concession holder a certificate of concession remuneration by its auditor within 20 July on the period of the start date of the concession until 30 June. According to Annex No 6 to the concession contract, the concessionaire submitted a draft methodology for measuring and monitoring the performance standards of the contract within the three-month period after the start date of the concession, which is currently examined by the concession. A comparative analysis of the key performance indicators on operational activities and operations and related to safety issues and safety related activities under Annex 6 to the contract has also been carried out. In addition to the above-mentioned obligations under the contract, the CFF Connect has taken steps and actions to fulfil its obligations with a longer period of execution within six months after the start date of the concession. It has launched the preparation on the basis of its idea plan submitted with the offer of the original master plan, which should be submitted within five months of the start of the concession. In this respect, the concessionaire has started to develop the initial general plan, including forecasts for the strategic development of the airport, a traffic forecast, a complex investment and a construction programme and has undertaken an engineering study on Terminal 2 parking, which will be laid down in its initial master plan. As part of the initial general plan of the airport, the concessionaire should also draw up an initial capacity assessment within five months of the start of the concession. The concessionaire has already been appointed a contractor for the initial capacity assessment, which will include the assessment of terminals and the assessment of runways and platforms at the airport. In the meantime, according to Annex 6 of the concession contract, the concessionaire is required to participate in a quality study of the airport services. In line with the above obligations, the concessionaire assessed the performance of the airport in all key areas, including in terms of passenger capacity and comfort, and took measures aimed at optimizing the operation of the airport, such as the shift of traffic from Terminal 1 to Terminal 2. At present, the concessionaire regularly communicates with the representatives of the Border Police and the representatives of the health authorities to provide faster and better quality service to travellers from and to Sofia airport and to address more effectively the difficulties of the restrictions introduced as a result of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to questions from the parliamentary groups. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u26	Madam President, Vice-President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question to you is: has the concessionaire presented a Time Plan for the Development of Terminal 2, because at the moment there is no apparent action, there is nothing in the food and shop area, and is there a mechanism in the concession contract with which the concessionaire is obliged to update Terminal 2?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u27	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Your question is very timely and this was one of the first things I asked the concessionaire at my meetings and the airport visit. I fully share what you have said, the real dining area and the commercial areas are infinitely neglected, the sanitary premises are in a state that I don't even want to comment on from this tribune. The concessionaire made a clear commitment to start precisely from there: creating a children's corner, renovating and a whole new appearance of commercial areas, eating establishments which are in no way adapted to today's requirements of all consumers, and making a commitment, firstly, to sanitize and renovate sanitary premises, as well as in terms of service, to new uniforms of all airport staff, so that they have, first of all, a more welcoming appearance and, second of all, perhaps more welcoming attitude to all passengers, regardless of departure or arrival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u29	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From GERB-SDS. Do you have any questions from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u30	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! There can hardly be any dispute that the issue of concession at Sofia airport was used quite politically, and perhaps some wanted to exercise economically on it. But let's return the topic where it should be, namely in the participation and formation of the economy of Bulgaria, naturally, in the operation of Sofia airport. If the airport had not been taken over by a professional operator at the time of the crisis, with security and reduction three times in the last year, it had to be continued the operation by the State-owned company, the State-owned operator. My question is provoked by the constant desire of political and perhaps economic entities of different management of this significant asset for Bulgaria. According to preliminary data, by 30 June of this year, the company operating at Sofia airport generated an operating loss of 1.9 million. EUR and operating revenues amount to 8.8 million. If depreciations and other financial costs are added, the total loss of the company will amount to 13 million. Euros. This loss is borne by the investor and does not involve the state at the moment. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] My question: have you done an analysis, Mr. Minister, how would our biggest airport operate in this extremely difficult situation, as we have seen in the past and this year, for all airport operators, not only in Europe, but in the world? And if Sofia airport continues to operate without investment, without professional management, what would be the effect during the Kovid crisis on it? Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. I beg you very much, from the BSP parliamentary group! Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For 2020 "Sofia Airport" EAD, when it was still the operator of Sofia airport, ended the financial year with a million and a half losses. This loss, first of all, is due to reduced traffic and, accordingly, served passengers. For comparison, in 2019, Sofia airport served nearly 8 million passengers, while in 2020 there were about 2 million 900 thousand passengers, which undoubtedly spoke about the impact of the crisis on the financial performance of the airport operator. The traffic recovery forecasts are not optimistic. The various comments are that they may return to a 10-year period after 2019, so that the levels in terms of serviced passengers from 2019 will recover between 2024 and 2029 in case the crisis does not have a lasting impact on traffic and the entire aviation industry, which affects not only airport operators but also aviation operators, and air navigation service operators. So the financial situation of any operator at the time of Sofia airport is not colorful. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission has not taken into account the arguments put forward by Germany in the opening decision as regards the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in the light of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter "the If there are no take-offs and landings, such revenues will not be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u33	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u34	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister Todorov! By discussing the concession at Sofia airport, it should be borne in mind that the main service providing an airport, an airport operator, is the safe and timely take-off and landing of passengers and cargo goods. In recent years, European Union legislation, in the face of the European Commission and the European Aviation Safety Agency, have introduced and established a number of regulations. One of these regulations is Regulation 139 of 2014. According to our information, there is a serious delay with the introduction of part of the required regulation, the deadline of which was August 2021. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: please inform us whether the concessionaire has provided the necessary expertise, staff training and technologies to ensure the safety and regularity of the flights at our main airport in Sofia? And one question. In the event that the information is demonstrated, as far as we understand it, there has been communication between the GGA and the concessionaire if it is demonstrated that this Regulation has not been implemented 139, is that not contrary to the concession contract by the concessionaire? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u35	Thanks for asking, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ever since my inauguration at my first meeting with the concessionaire, which was in a broad format, together with representatives and the National Regulatory Authority DG GUI, I have firmly stated that the Bulgarian State will not compromise on the quality of flight safety and safety and passengers respectively. It is for this reason that, on 22 June of this year, in accordance with Regulation 139 of 2014, which you have quoted, DG GVA have commissioned and notified the concessionaire for an inspection of the runway for take-off and landing, with regard to the high grass around the track, tyre loads on the runway for take-off and landing and the corresponding falls which have been found on some of the stands. [[People's representatives are talking to each other.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u37	Quiet, please! Mr. Hadjigenov, the calls outside.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u38	Even at this point, I have ordered constant monitoring of the activities carried out by the concessionaire so that we can monitor not only in advance and after carrying out the relevant actions, but on a daily basis what the concessionaire does, within what time limits and with what technologies these prescriptions are made, which are established by the GVA inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u40	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! There were many explanations from the stands today about the current situation with the airport concessionaire. Mr. Minister, can you explain why such a service was made to the new concessionaire, namely the postponement of concession fees for the first 10 years of the contract period, for the last 10 years, namely from the 26th to the 35th year? Would you argue that the Ministry's decision on this postponement, given that the extension of the remaining concessionaires in Bulgaria is ten times smaller, namely for a period of one year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u41	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Sterkova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, I've been familiar with the amendments to the concession contract. The concession contract in its original form, under the concession law, should have been as part of the concession procedure. The concessionaire subsequently requested a modification of the concession contract in October last year, referring to a species of pandemic. In this regard, an analysis has been commissioned by the World Bank, which should review the concessionaire's requests, which have been mainly in delaying the first 10 years of the concession payment for the last 10 years. The World Bank has done its analysis and has found several things that, in order to restore the balance of concession and the full viability of the concession itself, they find it most appropriate to postpone payments for the first 10 years in the past 10 years. Yes, it is a fact that in relation to the other airports of Burgas and Varna, deposits of concession payments are made year by year and we do not have such a long period of delay. The revision will have more adverse consequences if we go to revise this annex than to comply with it. Rather, the International Financial Corporation, which is part of the World Bank, carrying out this in-depth analysis, has found that this proposal is the best for the concession, because in the end the Bulgarian state at the effective date of the start of the concession received the initial concession payment. If we turn it into BGN, that's 660 million. lv. First, a concession payment, an increase in the investment programme of the concessionaire, which will include the construction of an entirely new terminal 3 and possibly with a view to increasing traffic in the future, the construction of a new runway for take-off and landing. So I can share this with regard to the analysis that the World Bank has carried out to postpone these first 10-year concession payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u43	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Mr. Tsonev, please come in from the DPS group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in the draft amending the Budget Act we have seen that there are some 30 million planned to compensate the Bulgarian airlines who have suffered severe damage from the pandemic crisis. Of course, these 30 million are extremely insufficient because the airlines in the countries of the European Union were the most powerfully supported by the countries, even in some countries the state itself became a shareholder in order to save the companies. We found out that there was an idea in the office, the account that left 60 million at Sofia airport, to use all 60 million to compensate the airlines, which would be fair. My question is related to another.. the idea to stay only 30 was related to another idea with the other 30 to buy assets at Plovdiv airport, some assets at Plovdiv airport, which are not owned at Plovdiv airport. So my question is: what do you have to buy private assets around Plovdiv airport or at Plovdiv airport? I admit that I am not aware exactly who these assets are, so my question is: is it true that they will be bought, what it requires and whose property these assets are? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u45	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Plovdiv Airport is 100% owned by the Bulgarian State. It is not in any way, and I strongly state that it is not in any way a matter of buying assets of a private company, any of which is, or of assets around the land itself, which constitutes public state property. Bulgarian aviation operators, as I mentioned earlier, have suffered a lot of damage from this pandemic. In the draft amending the Budget Act, we have indeed foreseen 30 million. BGN, as this preliminary assessment we have based so that we can satisfy the most Bulgarian aviation companies. The 60 million you are talking about, from Sofia airport we find no way and mechanism so that they can be transformed to help these aviation operators. Rather, I have taken other actions to enable Plovdiv Airport EAD a Bulgarian company, 100% owned by the Bulgarian State, Sofia Airport as a commercial company "Sofia Airport" has already lost its functionality, it is not an airport operator, but there are certain assets and funds to support the state budget. As you probably know, on an annual basis, the shortage of funding for Plovdiv Airport weighs about a million and a half of the state budget. By means of an infusion that I have offered, Sofia Airport in Plovdiv Airport will support the state budget, funds will be provided for the development of Plovdiv Airport EAD as an airport operator and will thus prevent the possibility of spill-over of funds available at the moment in Sofia Airport EAD. However, in no way is the development of Plovdiv Airport EAD related to the purchase of assets or any other management transactions for some imaginary private company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u47	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. From the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, the concerns we want to share with you are regarding the non-set specific criterion in the concession contract, as an example I give a certain number of passengers. Why would that be a problem? If the concessionaire in the contract so signed assessed and increased the passenger service fee himself, this would mean that with half of the manpower, he could make the main revenue in his budget, and this is the revenue from the airport charges. I would therefore specifically like to ask: how is the state's interest in the contract protected.. You are familiar with it, and is there a mechanism by which you can regulate this price? I'm talking about the airline service. One question, if I may ask: if during the period of the concession contract, which is 35 years, the State launches the construction of a second airport or entrusts it to another concessionaire, do we owe any penalty to the current concessionaire at Sofia Airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u49	Thanks for asking, Mr. Kolev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The airport charges are not solely in the airport operator's prerogatives, in this case According to the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Airport charges shall be accepted on the basis of a general decision by all those users of airport services. Therefore, the airport operator is not entitled and able to determine the amount of airport charges because there is some balance between the interest of the aviation operators and the airport operator, respectively. Bulgaria currently has five airports that can operate international flights. For the territory of our country and from the point of view of the scale of the aviation industry, airports in Burgas, Varna, Gorna Oryahovitsa, Plovdiv and Sofia, I think it is enough to serve international flights. In addition, there are small airports that can operate international flights but not for commercial purposes. The construction of a new airport near Sofia or somewhere else on the territory of the country, first of all, I think it is economically unjustified and unnecessary. The concessionaire has not put any conditions on the basis of which I found no such conditions in the concession contract, which, by the way, as you know, is public, is uploaded to the National concession register along with this additional agreement, including the request of the concession holder to amend the concession contract accordingly. In it, I have not found the possibility or restriction of abstention by the Bulgarian State not to build a new airport, no matter what form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u51	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the second questions of the parliamentary groups. There is such a people. Here you go, Mr. Danailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u52	Madam President, honourable colleagues, Mr Minister! My second question is related to the state-owned company..Sofia....who is managing it at the moment; what is its state; what actions have been taken to collect the claims that the company has; what will happen to the assets of this company, including the holiday bases that are part of the assets; what happens to the goods that are purchased for the duty free zone, is it sold to the company if not................................................................................................................................................................................................................. My last question is: will you return the airport operator's license or will it be reserved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u53	Thank you, Mr. Danailov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "Sofia Airport" is currently 100% owned by the Bulgarian State, a trading company that has lost its functions as an airport operator. What to do with his future? According to the Public Enterprises Act, I have undertaken a request to the Public Enterprises Agency and control for permission for the injection of Sofia Airport in Plovdiv Airport EAD. The infusion suggests that all assets should be transferred to Plovdiv Airport, together with all stocks of accounts. Why? I explained it a little while ago, but I'll say it again. In this way, I believe that the state budget, which provides an annual base of nearly 1.5 million, will be alleviated. lv. For the maintenance of Plovdiv Airport EAD, funds will be provided for the purchase of assets needed for the operational activity of Plovdiv Airport EAD. In this way, there will be no spillage of property, assets, including the rest of the station, which you are probably talking about. What are they doing about the preservation and recovery of their claims? As you know, the employees and employees of the Sofia Airport EAD under the concession contract have switched to the company. Currently, the Sofia Airport is managed by the Board of Directors in a composition of three people. They have very few staff available, mostly related to the security and protection of the assets you are talking about, such as the rest of the station, such as Balchik Airport, but they also have employees responsible for the company's accounting and policy, lawyers who prepare the relevant claims to be able to collect their uncollected claims. Despite the fact that at a future moment Sofia Airport will be flown into Plovdiv Airport EAD, the collection activities and the requirement of all kinds of claims to be made will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The parliamentary group of GERB-SDS is welcome.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! After the concession at Sofia Airport, the state company "Sofia Airport" EAD is no longer de facto an airport operator. It has only operating assets and significant financial resources. On the other hand, Sofia Plovdiv Airport is the only major airport operated by the state with regular international flights, but also with significant financial difficulties. I recall that the second concession procedure carried out in recent years has also been terminated due to a lack of requested interest, although it has been repeatedly extended. Plovdiv Airport has the potential for development At the same time, it needs significant investment for its development. As a result of the above, my question is: what will be the fate of the company "Sofia Airport" EAD; is the theme of the company's infusion or merger with "Plovdiv Airport" EAD? As a sub-question, I would like to ask you: are the necessary analyses done for such restructuring and how do you see it in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u57	Thanks for asking, Mr. Malinov. He was partially answered a moment ago by the Minister, but please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u58	Yeah, more like the subpoena.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u59	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take you back a little at the time of the first concession of Burgas and Varna, when the concessionaire took over the management of the two sea airports. There were two commercial companies left. They lost their time as an airport operator, as is now Sofia Airport. For this reason Burgas Airport and Varna Airport were flown into Plovdiv Airport, which allowed the new terminal at Plovdiv Airport to be in this condition, namely with the available financial resources that came from the two sea airports. I think it is appropriate that this form of infusion of Sofia Airport in Plovdiv Airport EAD. Why? Because, as you pointed out, Plovdiv Airport is experiencing an acute need for a certain type of technique to serve the aircraft. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u61	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u62	There are no specific capacities in the meaning of the GSM, which will also enable the Airport of Plovdiv and EAD to realize commercial revenues from charging aircraft, no capacities and halls in terms of the prerequisites for the development of cargo traffic. For this reason, my team and I have considered this infusion to be appropriate, lawful and economically justified. Yeah, the financial resources are not just him. There are also certain assets of Sofia Airport, which are outside the territory of Sofia Airport, such as Balchik Airport, Holiday Station, Kosmos and other properties and terrains around Sofia Airport. In no way will there be a possibility for the Plovdiv Airport EAD to dispose of them in the sense of being sold, as some of the terrains are public government property and are simply obstructed by the law. As regards the development of Plovdiv Airport as such. Yes, the concession failed, probably also because of the coven pandemic, but we must create such conditions that suggest attractiveness in potential concessionaires. At the same time, I have also assigned the preparation of updated concessional analyses, as this is a basic prerequisite that will give us a picture of how and how much, what type of concessionaire we are looking for, whether it is primarily oriented to cargo flights, to passenger flights or to mixed flights. We'll look at some scripts. I hope the next team of the Ministry will choose the best for the development and future of Plovdiv Airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a question from the BSP parliamentary group, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the concession contract provides for the concessionaire to provide an annual report containing key data on traffic, revenues, costs, investments and so on, also updated financial and operational forecast for the development of Sofia airport. We have learned from the media appearances of the management of Sof Connect that Terminal 1 is soon scheduled to stop serving passengers and eventually become an administrative building. However, I recall that under the concession contract concluded, the concessionaire has committed itself to building even a third terminal by the tenth year of the concession. My question to you is: has the Ministry of Transport already received the annual report for the first year of the concession? Are you going to publish this report, make it public? In general, how do you control the implementation of the commitments made by the concessionaire? And most importantly, perhaps: what sanctions did GERB have in the concession contract for the concessionaire in case of default? Will any penalties for non-compliance be imposed in this regard in the first year? I think these are the important questions. In the attitude we will complete our comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u65	Thanks for asking, Mr. Danchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the effective date of the concession, 100 days have passed. The starting effective date is April 19th this year. The concession holder's obligation has not yet occurred in those 100 days as it has not passed one year from the effective date of the concession to present financial statements to present traffic forecasts or anything else relating to the One-year Development Plan. I can refer rather to data from the analysis of the International Financial Corporation with regard to traffic and analysis and forecasts of IATA and ICAO with regard to the recovery of this traffic. The most optimistic traffic recovery forecast, which traffic will have a direct impact on the revenue side of any airport operator, is a return on levels in 2024. The year 2024 is still far away. I have not formally received a request from the concessionaire to suspend the flights operated by Terminal 1. [[Heckling]] Yeah, I've heard it too, but there's no official letter and no request from the concessionaire. Yes, there is a major obligation to build a new Terminal 3 eventually with regard to traffic growth, which, before the outbreak of the pandemic on an annual basis, was nearly a 3% annual increase in traffic. I'm talking before the pandemic! So such traffic growth may be expected after 2025. First, recovery of levels from 2019 and then a potential growth. The need to build a new terminal is likely to have proposed, respectively before that the Bulgarian state asked for in view of the constantly growing traffic. At the moment, traffic is so small that, in my opinion, it is purely operational that it does not imply the maintenance of two terminals, especially with regard to the deployment of staff of the border police. If such an official proposal is received by the concessionaire, we, together with DG GUI, will examine it and will assess whether operating in any way will not make it even more difficult for the passenger service and the operation of the aircraft movements themselves. Why? Because first of all, standards regarding speed and quality of passenger service and the creation of their comfort must be respected, that is to say, there should be no accumulation of both the luggage lanes and the counters, or the customs controls, respectively, and any measures requiring the health authorities to enter and exit from our country. That I can share.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u67	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question to you is specific and it is: how is the chosen offer for the airport operator of Sofia of the company Sof Connect is in line with the obligation to participate in an airport operator, provided that the participation of Munich airport is only in the role of consultant and is not part of the association of Sof Connect? The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that there is a need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, which is compatible with the internal market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u69	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Concessorary at Sofia Airport is "Sof Connect" AD, and I just shared who are the participants in "Sof Connect." In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Munich Airport is a third party according to the requirements of the concession law and has no direct participation in the concession fee. But he's a third person! A third party was required in respect of both the Law on concessions and the concession procedure itself. In this respect, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that there is a need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Why it wasn't part of the shareholder itself, I can't answer because at the date of the transaction I wasn't involved in any quality, I didn't know in any way why the offer was so prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the topic of concession at Sofia airport is extremely important as one of the biggest assets of the Bulgarian state. I would like to hear an assessment from you, first of all, if you support the concession itself as an instrument of concession specifically at the airport, the concession itself as achieved contracts. Because we have heard from you that the concession itself as a procedure has been confirmed by both the KPC and you, but we have not heard your assessment of this whole toolbox. As an instrument is that good, isn't it, as a concession and as an arrangement, on the one hand? And the other, there were some protests from citizens living near Sofia airport, who also protested against the noise and pollution that is happening there, and each concession has an integral part with plans for environmental and social governance. What do these plans contain, what are the deadlines and what implementation do we expect from the point of view of solving the issues and protests, if you will, of the Bulgarian citizens living near Sofia airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u73	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The concession as an instrument. For me, the functioning of a stable transport system, including stability and development of airport infrastructure and of the entire aviation sector, is important in the first place as a minister. The concession is not a panacea, but is a well used tool with good results in the years in which in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications we have proved with the experience of 15 years in different aspects of transport infrastructure, including airport infrastructure. A concessionaire or a state-owned company, no matter what we call it, must take care of this infrastructure, which is an element of national security, constitutes a state border. In the years our Ministry has accumulated quite a lot of expertise regarding monitoring and control of already concluded concession contracts, as well as in preparing concession procedures. The concession for me is one of the main ways to implement a public-private partnership because by way of a commission transaction the State does not distance itself, but rather engages in monitoring the concession contract itself, as well as in controlling and imposing sanctions, in case the concessionaire does not fulfil certain obligations. I can even tell you right now that in our system there is not a single lev collected from due concession payments. Over the years, sanctions have been imposed on different concession contracts, even for the failure of one person in the programme to provide employment to workers and employees. I am sure that control of this concession contract will be uncompromising. Even for this concession contract, except that I created a Commission for Control, which is required by the Law on concessions... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u75	Mr. Mirchev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u76	... another board with control functions is set up to monitor all plans and requirements not only in terms of ecology, but also in terms of the social commitment of the concessionaire, the preservation of workers and employees, the operation of a collective employment contract, as well as the operational plan for action, as well as the future strategic plans for the development of the infrastructure itself. Contracts with public users, such as Border Police, sanitary controls, Customs Agency, have been signed for a reason so that all who enter and exit from Sofia airport can be guaranteed security and safety, as well as security of adjacent areas outside the terminal. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u77	Mrs. Capon!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u78	In terms of noise. Noise will be explored and taken into account all demands of citizens living near the airport, but, unfortunately, our airport falls into urbanised territory..in very close proximity there are residential neighborhoods, there are houses, there are residents that are probably suffering from noise, so the cleanliness of noise pollution will not be ignored in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up, BG! We're coming! Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The pandemic has several countries and one of them that all Bulgarian citizens see is heavy inflation in both food prices and construction prices. But, of course, in the contract, it is in this part, which is public, there is a strange wording of the topic. Since we are going to talk about money about the money that the Bulgarian State must take from the concession, in 1.8.1, Mr. Minister, we read the following sentences: And there is no Bulgarian citizen who does not know that when he receives BGN 5 when he indexes the following year, the indexation begins already on the indexation he made in the previous one, which in this concession contract is not bet. On the one hand, there is no capitalization of the indexing, and after 10 years we assume that the index is 4%, if, of course, under this contract is given...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u81	Mrs. Capon, your time is up. Ask your question, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u82	Madam President, one second. I think the subject is important, and you'll allow me another fifty seconds. Here it becomes clear that the amount that will be given, if ever possible, can be different. My question, Mr. Minister, is: how do you interpret the indexation, on the one hand, and do you think that the agreed investment in this contract will be able to be realised at galloping prices, because there may be some other agreement for it once? [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u83	Thank you for your question, Mrs. Capon. It's nice not to fight early in the morning. We can talk quietly and politely, if possible. [[Reply from DPS: "And if not in the same tone.]] Yeah. Mr. Secretary, come in. You can answer the question. You do not need to interpret, of course, and if you can continue with your tone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The concession contract, as well as the concession procedure and transaction itself, is an exercise which implies quite knowledge and quite compliance with different aspects of both economic life and certain international standards. My guess is that when preparing this concession contract, none of the team that participated in it intended to deviate from international standards when concluding such concession contracts. When we, because I was involved 15, 16 or 17 years ago in laying the foundations for the concessionation of transport infrastructure, then we were quite unaware of the mechanisms of any concession contract. It was for this reason that we had hired international consultants in terms of both the technical aspects of a concession and the legal part of such a concession contract. I repeat: I do not believe that the Treaty can imply things other than international standards in the conclusion of such concession contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes the questions to the Minister of Transport. Parliamentary groups have the opportunity to express their attitude. For the attitude of the parliamentary group there is such a people. sir Danailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u86	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for answering the questions, thank you for the information you have given us. The saga around the concession contract, we all know it. It certainly did not become clear exactly how the state interest is protected by the postponement of concession payments over the past 10 years, which is certainly a problem. What we want to call on you from our parliamentary group, you said it, is to really respect the Treaty and impose the sanctions that are foreseen because, yes, the first 100 days have passed and the airport is in a miserable state. It is the door through which most foreigners enter Bulgaria, and what they see is really mind-blowing. Therefore, I ask you to use all the mechanisms, including this time schedule, to impose sanctions in order to comply with at least the basic hygiene rules of this airport. And the other thing is to do everything possible to protect all the assets of the state-owned company, including everything possible to collect the claims that the state-owned company has, so as not to get spill-over, as well as the goods that the state-owned company has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u87	Thank you, Mr. Danailov. For attitude from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Welcome, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman, thank you, colleagues! Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, who is absent today, asked me to express this opinion on his behalf, which I would love to do. It seems to me, colleagues, that the Minister answered correctly and gave correct information. The concession contract has been signed under all the rules of the European Commission - Bulgarian and international, including its amendments, confirmed by the World Bank, by the European Commission, by European institutions. In short, the procedure was carried out by the textbook. Of course, the ten-year delay. Colleagues, look, some political forces here can't plan two weeks ahead, they can't plan our lives for two weeks ahead, and that's why we're constantly slobbering. World companies, foreign countries, as well as other political forces can plan 10 years ahead and more if necessary. To be able to plan for a very long time, this implies responsible government treatment, but not to throw your country into a crisis that we have been doing here for several months. It's clear he's got a horse. It is clear that the number of passengers has fallen 3 or 4 times. It is clear that in such a long-term contractual partnership, the two countries must find a solution to reduce the burden of the Kovid pandemic. It is also clear that 600 million entered the Bulgarian state budget a few months ago. lv. dry steam, which, I hope, has come well to the caretaker government, and it has ordered them to do the right thing. It is also clear that comparison with airports Varna and Burgas should not be made in this way, because there was no prior concession payment. I would like to say a few words of a more general nature in this regard: I, fellow Members, do not believe that in.. Democratic Bulgaria.............................. the colleagues who are convinced supporters of the liberal market economy can be against the concession in principle and in particular the concession of Sofia airport...... if they are not against the concession in principle, and I believe that they are not, this means that they are against the concessionaire, if they are against the concession, this means that they were for someone else, which leads me to the idea of lobbyism. There is a very great provincialism in us that we need to start rooting out, colleagues, and it is to ask the question or not to be able to figure out which foreign investor is really big and who are these investors that we say are just pretending, but not really. In this case, it is about a fund which is supported as we understand it. The Minister mentioned them by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development, the International Financial Corporation, part of the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, Societe General Expressbank, UniCredit Bulbank, Communist Credit Bank. How many more institutions have to say that this investor is large, honest, reliable and stable? And why should we constantly have some insinuations in the public domain not just discredit investors but discredit ourselves as politicians and as a country and expose ourselves because in the end these embarrassments lead to contempt for us? I think we should stop doing this, guys. In 1992, I was in Germany and on May 17th the new Munich airport opened. Then public television for four hours had a special broadcast and broadcast the traffic transfer from the old to the new airport. At twelve o'clock in the morning, the last plane landed at the old Munich airport, and at twelve o'clock in five was due to land the first plane at the new Munich airport. It was then said that this was the most complex logistics operation ever performed in the world, and that's why it was broadcast on television. Unique experience teams that up to the last second change machines, aggregates, software have been installed and I don't know what else so one airport can close at five and the other can open at five.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u89	The weather, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u90	It's about companies of this order that are the best in the world in logistics and management. And really, honestly, I'm telling you, I've had other cases in my personal practice that I don't want to share right now, throwing stains on people, again, on international global companies, actually discrediting myself. Let's not humiliate our country any more, please! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u91	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. For attitude from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, Mr. Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! A very easy topic for debate by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. What all your colleagues have now asked, we have asked these questions for seven years because the concession at Sofia airport was a well-organised scheme for robbing Bulgaria. You all know that Sofia Airport is an object of national security, that it is the largest trading company with the highest profits, with the highest turnovers. The arguments of all the ministers, who came here from this tribune, campaigned that Sofia airport should be concessionated, were then the following: 500 million for BDZ, cash immediately received, 10 million a year fee, 35 years of age "even changed the Law on concessions in order to become 50 years, third terminal, renovation of the first terminal, construction of a third terminal and construction of a second runway. So for seven years the government of GERB campaigned the National Assembly that this thing should happen in order for Bulgaria to have a modern airport, to have a third terminal, to have a second runway, to have passengers and everything else, BDZ to have 500 million for new trains. What do we see today? 500 million is not in BDZ. There are 500 million left, Mr. Cholakov, in the caretaker government. Borisov spent it from the SUV before that, and now he just put it back in the budget because he had spent it on other things. supposedly there were elections in April, shortly before that, there went the five hundred million and BDZ left without trains. There was supposed to be a third terminal, and now we know there won't be a first. So we're closing first instead of making a third. There won't be 10 million. Here, colleague Ivanov from GERB said that if it had not been given a concession, the airport would have been a whole, i.e. the state would have suffered 13 million losses, which is now being paid by the concessionaire. No, honourable Members, the Bulgarian state pays it by simplifying 10 million for this year and 10 million for next year, and 10 million for next year and 10 million for next year. This is paid by all of us - Bulgarian citizens, and it must be clear that GERB has done 10 years of damage every year! And that needs to be known, Bulgarian citizens need to know who robbed Bulgaria. Because when we said not to give the concession, when the airport made profits, everyone kept quiet and said, "Well, that's a modern way! Here is the modern way to which it has led, to this the Minister is now his only goal................................................................................................. And you assigned him to see if the sanitary facilities were clean?! That would be his job as he travels, to see if the sanitary rooms are clean. Instead of exploiting a modern company built with state and municipal money. Don't forget who built the subway to Sofia Airport? The Bulgarian State, Sofia Municipality with the money of all of us. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] You gave Sofia Airport, announced a concession, colleagues from GERB, without having a master plan. In which country does someone give the airport a concession without making the general plan and now assign the concessionaire to make his own master plan? So now he has to tell himself whether he needs a runway or not, whether he needs a third terminal, or not, whether he needs a first terminal, or not... Believe me, in 10 years there will probably be other colleagues here, but some of you will be and you will see that there will be neither a third terminal nor a second runway. The first terminal will be completed, and I do not know if, when the 10-year suspension of concession fees expires, there will be even a concessionary airport in Sofia, because the entire concession was conceived wickedly because the entire concession was carried out wickedly. It has been stopped several times by different institutions, but we all know how it ended, under what pressure and why it happened. Unfortunately, in this situation, the only thing we can do, but it will cost Bulgarian citizens dearly, is to take a procedure to break the concession contract, but will have to pay the Bulgarian citizens the madness that have made the political party GERB. There was a chance to terminate the concession and it was a week before Borisov's government left and signed this agreement to postpone the concession fee. If Minister Zhelyazkov hadn't signed this agreement, the government of Borisov hadn't taken this decision to postpone...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u93	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u94	...the concessionaire might have given up this concession himself and now the Bulgarian state would have had a modern airport, rather than pouring it into Plovdiv airport so Plovdiv airport could fix some other problems of his own. Our position is consistent, comes out and right, comes out and true and I hope to find more supporters in this Chamber, because this was indeed one of another robberies committed by the Bulgarian state under the rule of GERB. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u95	Thank you. For attitude from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u96	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! During the last hour and a half two things became clear to the airport operator Sofia had postponed serious financial obligations, he was postponed the payment of concession fees for 10 years. Ten years, guys! On the other hand, the airline operator of Sofia airport performs its obligations under the concession contract with poor condition, poor bathrooms, unclear plan for the realization of its investment obligations. However, colleagues, many questions remained unanswered. Who exactly is the final owner of the concessionaire at Sofia Airport? Which one?! We heard the composition of the concessionaire company, but the final owner did not hear. We didn't hear that name, although we have repeatedly asked that question. We have heard the arguments that it was necessary to postpone the payment of concession fees by 10 years due to a kind of crisis. Yes, we heard that this was based on a report from the World Bank, but we did not hear why a different criterion was applied? How come for Sofia airport we decided that the Kovid crisis would work for 10 years? What do you mean?! Based on medical, any other scientific data, or Sofia airport just lives in another reality? For the operator of the other airports and for the entire Bulgarian business, we assess the economic effect, take measures year-to-year, how is this criterion, which for Sofia airport we apply one approach, and for the rest, for the rest of the remaining Bulgarian business, the criterion is totally different? There's one other thing that's become clear. We have witnessed a missing concession clause from the Concession Contract Project. Yes, Munich Airport is a model and it is not a question of how good Munich Airport is and what a wonderful professional its operator is. It is about how legislative techniques are used to conceal some facts, perhaps one that will be uncomfortable with the answers to them. We are aware of the figure for the third party under the directives for both public procurement and concessions as well as the legislation in force. It is a person who provides or protects the capacity of the airport operator and this is done on the basis of a contract. In this case, it is a consulting contract. The question that we have asked and not answered is: how did it happen that in the announced draft concession contract there was a clause for this airport operator to be a shareholder in this company, or a partner, and in the signed final contract this clause disappeared? And we didn't get an answer to that question. I would like to congratulate the Minister on his active position on insisting on compliance with the obligations for the quality implementation of the concession contract, but I would like to express my disagreement as to why all these questions that have remained unanswered continue to be passed away in silence. Yes, it is not against the system of concessionation, but it is against concessions that are under the cover of the gray mist of doubts. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Attitude from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u98	Thank you, Madam President. The gray fog... And we're against the gray fog. We have a resemblance in both programs and in our visions of the gray fog. All we have to do is figure out what the gray fog is, because we have a slight gap here. [[(Reply from MP Halil Letifov: Mr. Ivanov will say it!]] When I see you smiling, I think we're on the right track, you'll soon agree to the gray fog. But on the subject. Concession is an important economic way. Clarification of circumstances around the concessionaire is a very important topic, and we also hold on to that. And in our opinion, this discussion was useful at least in terms of clarifying certain details. If there is still any doubt about who the concessionaire is, we should continue to act in this direction and generally. That's what we're for, and I want to clearly declare it from this tribune. However, the gray fog also covers other actions. As the Minister of Transport is here, we will continue to monitor, as said by our colleagues at the DB, we will continue to monitor the performances of the quality clauses, and not only the quality of the quality and quantitative clauses, and everyone else under this concession, but at the same time we will monitor other things. We will put forward proposals if there is a question and discussion, if this Parliament has more life, about why a lie is planted in society, and precisely from the Ministry of Transport on the Project for the extruding of that channel that you have laid it on our Honorary Chairman? The Minister of Transport knows very well when this project was made, the Minister of Transport knows very well from whom it was made and that it was made very much before the thermal power plant, and the port and so on. So these things have to be clarified because the fog has two sides. One side is who, what, and the other side is, let's get someone into a fog. It's not gonna work anymore. We have slept for many years not to pay attention to the insinuations, lies and slanders that come mainly from a part of the Bulgarian society, and more precisely from a circle. And get back to the subject today. Mr. Minister, of course there is a way for the money from Sofia airport to be transformed, if that is what we all decide, in the budget to be transformed to help the airlines and this way is very easy. I talked to my colleagues about former finance ministers, maybe I was wrong somewhere, but it turns out I wasn't wrong. It's just that this account goes into the budget and the budget does what it wants. However, the idea for the merger of the two airports in Sofia and in Plovdiv, under the assumption that Plovdiv airport is in severe financial crisis and thus will help it, is also covered in a slight fog. And now I assure you that this fog we will lift it up. I assure you in advance that we will be against this merger until we have calculated and cleared all the details of this merger. Because there is a doubt about the benefit of the same circle and of the same behind-the-scenes. We'll do our best to prove it. That's why I'm not using names and companies right now, because we're not in the phase where we're going to get facts out so we're not naked and not doing to others what we don't want us to do, throw innuendoes, lies and so on. But I would like to warn you that on this policy of merger on spending the funds we will have a special optics and we will monitor the process. And to conclude, we will strongly insist that the aid to air operators be of greater size, because the subject has opened up and because you are here and because the budget is about to be reviewed. As one of the measures to business this would be absolutely fair, a very late measure and not satisfying in the size and type of what all other European countries have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u99	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. For attitude from the parliamentary group of the National Assembly Stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! As of April 20th, Sofia Airport has a new company, which will manage it by contract until 2056. In fact, the airport is managed by the Bulgarian company, as my colleagues said, Sof Connect, in which the fund has 99%, and the Austrian construction company STRABAG holds 1%. Here we need to say a few words about the participants. The participants at the CAF Connects are raising many questions, which may be able to find answers in the next management. Meridiam is involved with three companies registered at the same address in Paris with 0.01% each. Information about the specific company is difficult to find. Interesting is the Austrian company, infrastructure company, STRABBAG by 1%. That 1%. It has not very positive experience in the past right at Sofia Airport. The visor built by the group you remember at the new terminal collapsed and for a long time it was not repaired, this is what Bulgarian citizens remember. Separately, the name of the company, as we talk about fog, often gets involved in international scandals, and it owns the oligarch Oleg Deripaska. This is about some of the public data. Granting a concession to the largest state asset took several years, and the winner, as we all know, was not the best offer. He wasn't the kind of guy who would've done the best. Somehow in the dark, and in the last few minutes, some additional things were agreed, like 16 million. EUR in terms of investment, I think that this is perhaps inflation, for which the teams have seen that it might be good to have it when building prices rise. That is, instead of the announced 608 million. EUR 624 million for the duration of the entire concession and the third passenger terminal must be ready by the tenth year. We can't do any better than that, and we hope to have so much traffic on airplanes. However, this was also the lowest investment offer during the competition. There was massive support from the Council of Ministers, firstly, in the way the offer was chosen among the five willing, then passed with an enviable speed through all the institutions in the chain such as the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court, and in the final, the Ministry of Transport clearly did not make efforts to negotiate better terms with the concessionaire under agreements to postpone fees, such as one and two years which receive sea airports. And somehow predicting, as it is worldwide, how much the epidemic would be on all statistics, even, as the history of epidemics says, could be up to four years, of which almost a year had passed. So from now on, Bulgarian citizens will see every day and no, the health conditions at Sofia airport are not at all to be ignored. The way Bulgarian citizens are served are not to be ignored. And it's very good to compare to Munich Airport. And I would really like every Bulgarian citizen to feel by 2056 what Munich Airport is meant by the cleanliness, organization and the way passengers are served, the security that Munich Airport has. And why an operator chooses just 12 years and when in a crisis decides to do additional activity as an operator to a concession, Mr. Minister, remains the next government, whatever it is, to reach these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. With this first item on the agenda today, it has been exhausted. We thank the Minister for his specific and comprehensive answers. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to the next item on the agenda: HEARING OF THE OFFICE MINISTER OF ENERGY ANDREI JIVK ON BENEFICIARY. 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE EXECUTIVE TIME FOR TRANSPONSITION OF DIRECTIVE 2018/2001/EC Importers are Zhivka Ironova and a group of MPs on 12 August 2021. The importer shall have the floor to make his statement within five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! Promoting investment in renewable energy forms is one of the objectives of the European Union's energy policy and includes a package of measures necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in combating climate change, protecting the environment, reducing population energy dependence and so on. European Union Directive No 2018/2001 of the European Community, 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. It shall apply from 24 December 2018. Member States shall bring into force all their laws, regulations and administrative provisions pursuant to a communication from the European Commission and shall comply with Articles referred to in the Directive by 30 June 2021 at the latest. At present, however, the Bulgarian legislation has not implemented the Directive and has not harmonised everything that is laid down under it as requirements. The transposition period expired on 30 June 2021. The penalties followed. The changes take into account the requirement to avoid a negative impact on economic indicators, viability and sustainability of supported existing and future projects. In addition to the new incentive policy for producers, this directive also contains one section "Sustainability, stability of investments'. In itself, it should ensure that current and future producers have a sustainable regulatory framework in which the conditions of existing and future contracts should not be changed. In this regard, I will also allow myself to refer to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. In its current version 140 million are at stake. BGN, which were reduced by the caretaker government and to recall that the previous one had bet 20 million. lv. to finance solar roofs and heat pumps in households, i.e. for the smallest producers and consumers of electricity. In this regard, national legislation in correspondence with European producers needs to distinguish between large and small RES producers. In order to prevent and not implement in practice errors made by the legislator, the introduction of double standards of the so-called counteractive measures introduced in July 2015 by the application of § 18 to the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. They affected 300 small companies, owners of photovoltaic power plants. Transposition of the new directive will ensure the viability of renewable producers. This would help to avoid precisely those risks that I mentioned and prevent the introduction of changes in existing contracts for the purchase of active electricity from the relevant ERPs in the future. It is important to know whether the work is being done and when there will be a proposal to transpose the directives from the Clean Energy Package for all Europeans and, more precisely, the Renewable Energy Directive, that is, it should have already entered into force. Minister, please comment on the factual situation presented in view of the future expectations of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and how ready our legislative base is to implement the projects set out in the Plan specifically for small producers of renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u103	Thanks for the show, Mrs. Iron.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u104	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u105	Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u106	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I appeal to you as you should perhaps have reminded Mrs. Ironova that she should have declared a conflict of interest. Is she a partner in a photovoltaic power plant that produces electricity, and that is why the entire National Assembly will deal with some private matter? [[noise and lines]] [[(Reply from the National Representative Zhivka Zhelezova:]] That's right, you'll answer. And you have to say here, declare a conflict of interest, because these questions concern you or these 300 producers, or you are part of these 300 producers, so we know what we are going to debate here today in plenary. Or does the entire National Assembly have to deal with your private case?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u107	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I accept your remark. I couldn't have known and warned anyone. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev, on the way again.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u108	Madam President, I too could not explain the reason for this hearing, as this is not the only directive on which we are late in time. There are many of them, especially in the Ministry of Energy. However, this question in § 18, and I note to you that the question of § 18 has nothing to do with the directive in question. This is a lobbying case in which one three hundred and several producers have taken double funding. On the one hand, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, through the Rural Development Programme, received 80% grant aid, i.e. the European Union financed their installations. On the other hand, they want to receive State support in the form of a preferential price. In fact, the forty-fourth and forty-third National Assembly devoted sufficient time to this matter. I draw your attention to the fact that § 18 has nothing to do with the hearing, which is on the agenda and should not be abused, especially if the colleague has a private interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u109	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Let me just remind you that we all voted together on the agenda for today's sitting, and we admitted the point, and we arranged it here where it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u110	Not for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u111	For § 18. I accept your remark. Personal explanation? Mrs. Irons, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I don't accept conflict of interest. In this case we are talking about a directive and you are currently moving the focus that Bulgaria will be sanctioned and all these monetary sanctions will be taken from the state budget. These are directives that concern the Green Pact yes. It is not only Directive 2018/2001. In this case, however, we need to refer to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, because at the moment Bulgaria, when it has not implemented and has not transposed this directive, as well as some of the same Green Pact, in this case: how do these investors who are going to want to put in the smallest households such photovoltaic panels, such solar roofs and how do you want in this case...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u113	It's not a personal explanation. It's essentially.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u114	Yes, a personal explanation...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u115	You will have an opportunity in your opinion on the response.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u116	I don't accept your colleagues' thesis. This is about the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, clearly only and only... [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] but I referred to § 18 as an example, as a retroactive measure which has been introduced into the legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. I understand that you felt affected. Again in the manner of conduct, Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u118	Dear Madam President, really in the manner of conduct, because here, whether a colleague accepts or does not accept this can say it at home. Here is the Bulgarian Parliament and should it declare its owner of a company and participate in it? In this case, you are the owner of even this company not to quote it so that I do not advertise it. The idea is more like... There's nothing wrong with that, coworker, you just need to come out and declare conflict of interest. And the Recovery Plan we will discuss, we will participate in this debate, but it is simply not done because it gives the impression that you are asking this question not to help the Bulgarian state, but to solve your private interest. I expected that, de facto, the people of ISN would have a new style, but it seemed to get worse than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u119	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mrs. Ironova, next time she will declare a conflict of interest when she asks a question related to renewable energy sources, I hope. I suggest we move on to the exhibition and to the information that the Minister of Energy will give us within 10 minutes. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u120	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Ironova! Directive 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources lays down a common framework for the promotion of the use of renewable energy by setting a binding target of at least a 32% share of renewable energy in the Union's gross final consumption of energy in 2030 to be achieved collectively by Member States. The Directive establishes opportunities for financial support for electricity from renewable sources, for the consumption of own electricity from renewable sources and for the use of energy from renewable sources in the heat, cooling and transport sectors. Regional cooperation opportunities are provided for between Member States and between Member States and third countries. The requirements concerning guarantees of origin are developed and guarantees of origin and gas from renewable sources, including green hydrogen, are provided. An important element of the Directive is the sustainability criteria and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions for biofuels, biomass fuels and gaseous and solid biomass fuels to be respected by economic operators so that those fuels can be taken into account both for the national target of a share of energy from renewable sources and for the purposes of the sector. The time limit for transposition of the provisions of the Directive is 30 June 2021. In order to comply with the requirements of the Directive, an Interdepartmental Working Group with an order of 15 April 2020, which includes representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, the Agency for Sustainable Energy Development, the Executive Agency for Forestry, the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, with the task of developing a draft and preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill. The deadline for the implementation of this Commission task was 31 December 2020. It should be borne in mind that the transposition of some of the provisions of the Directive requires assistance and agreement by other institutions, since the application of those provisions is of their competence. There are provisions of the directive for which transposition texts are still debatable. Such are, for example, the requirements of the Directive providing for the introduction of schemes to support electricity from renewable sources by carrying out transparent and competitive procedures for granting a market premium; the establishment of one or more contact points to provide guidance and facilitate the administrative process for granting authorisations for the construction of power plants. renewable energy; permits regimes under the Law on Construction of the Area; creating conditions to stimulate electricity consumers to produce electricity for their own consumption, including in renewable energy communities, and for that purpose it is necessary to decide on the legal status of these communities and to regulate their participation in the electricity market; regulating the requirements for stimulating the use of renewable energy in the sector of heat and cooling, given that most of the heat is not supplied centralised and this is subject to individual decision of the building owners. In this regard, the decision is not only the subject of energy policy, but is also the subject of regional development policy, social and housing policy. In order to achieve the objectives in the sector of heat and cooling, it is of key importance that the future development of centralised heat supply, which must use ever-wide renewable energy, will provide for the establishment of new centralised heat supply systems, which will be the subject of an initiative and with the assistance of local authorities. In order to achieve its obligations, 14% renewable energy target in gross final consumption of energy, solutions and measures are needed to increase the consumption of new-generation biofuels and increase the use of electric vehicles, which is the subject of the policies of the transport and distribution of fuels for transport, agriculture and food industry and waste management. The sustainability criteria and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in terms of the use of bioenergy, the introduction of sustainability criteria and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in solid biomass consumption have been increased. It is clear from the foregoing that political decisions to be taken by a government with a political mandate and to be supported by the National Assembly are necessary to transpose some of the provisions of the Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to questions from the parliamentary groups. The first question by the parliamentary group has such a people. Any questions? No question. We're moving on to GERB-SDS. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u122	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! As I have already said, unfortunately, this is not the only directive that has been implemented either in the Ministry of Energy or in other ministries, which has not been implemented in time. I'm saying it, unfortunately. In my opinion, our administration and political leadership must do everything possible to implement in order to bring changes to the European legislation or the new implementing directives from the Bulgarian legislation to the parliament. This is something that I agree with my colleague, the importer of this hearing. However, what I do not agree with is that Bulgaria will pay sanctions because the colleague is recently in parliament, I think it is her first term and does not know that before it comes to sanctions, two rounds of communication with the European Commission are passing. One round of communication is a reasoned opinion, the second round of communication with the European Commission is to clarify problems, possibly in the application texts. I mean, it's gonna be years before sanctions come to fruition. In order to come to sanctions, a fine must be imposed. Before such a court fine is imposed, at the last moment, Bulgaria can literally implement the Directive and then no sanctions will be paid. I don't know if my colleagues have been able to understand me, but to put it simply, this is the process. I mean, sanctions won't be paid. My question to you is, as there is still a delay, the administration has had more than a year and a half, actually since 2019. Almost two years: why didn't she do it, who was responsible? Is there a warrant issued for an interagency task force? What did this Interdepartmental Task Force do? What is the person who is written in this order that he is responsible for the implementation of this directive, and is that person accordingly punished in any way by you as a minister? If you have not punished this person for this fun, do you intend to punish the person who has made a delay in implementing the directive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u123	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dobrev, I least expected this question from you, but I will answer it. The directive entered into force in December 2018. The first report on the need to establish an interdepartmental working group was written 11 months later [[Reply from the National Representative Cyril Dobrev.]] Yeah, great. I haven't been to the Ministry for a year and a half. I've been in the last two months. It's a compliment to me that you expect me to do the job in two months, which hasn't been done in two years, but I'll tell you. The Working Group has drawn up a Draft Law amending the Renewable Energy Act, but it is in a very harsh version, not even passed through the Ministry's Legal Directorate. This is the condition at the time of this task force. She's still working. For punishments, okay, I'm not a fan of this style of work, but this group has had to be punished so far, because the time for two years is much bigger than two months. So as far as punishment is concerned, that's all I can tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u126	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Even with the greatest desire for effort to take responsibility within the office for this delay, we will not be able to do so. But in any case, the point of such questions is to see where we are right now, what situation we are in. And my question is related to a more projective objective, which has not been adopted by the directive, and we are late on June 30th, and this is a fact of fact - what else is implicitly contained in the directive, which must give rise to our actions? Dear Minister, in art. 4 t. 8 of that directive has yet another date - 30 December 2021, within the meaning of which the European Commission must report both to Parliament and to the Council an analysis of the measures taken, following the Renewable Assistance Directive, in seven categories - not to list them now, and accordingly to focus the instrument on increasing, reducing or more sustainable development of these instruments. Obviously, if, on 30 December 2021, the European Commission is to report to both Parliament and the Council, it will require a similar analysis of these seven criteria from national countries. My question in parallel with the work of the working group is: if such analysis is prepared, if Bulgaria is prepared, if any measures are set, will we report anything within the meaning of art. 4 t. Eight? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u127	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, on 26 July 2021 a letter of formal notice was received from the General Secretariat of the European Commission concerning the failure by Bulgaria to fully transpose the national legislation of the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. The Commission requires comprehensive and detailed information to be provided, specifying the national provisions introducing any provision of the Directive. The official notification letter of the European Commission is the first stage of the procedure for non-compliance with the obligations arising from the law of the European Council, and the Bulgarian side must present its observations to the European Commission on the identified infringement within two months of receipt of the letter. The position of the Bulgarian side should be agreed with the members of the Council on European Affairs in accordance with the requirements of Decree No 85 of the Council of Ministers for Coordination on European Union matters and a draft position should be submitted by 17 September 2021 in order to be approved by the Council of European Affairs on 20 September 2021 and subsequently forwarded to the European Commission. At the formal notification letter stage, there are no sanctions for non-transposing the provisions of the Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u130	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! It's a very bad practice when years go by. Since 2019 there has been an opportunity to start transposition of this directive, there has been a working group only a year and a half later, which obviously has not done its job, so my first recommendation, Mr. Minister, is to announce the names of the people who were there. In this life, personal responsibility must begin to be borne. The second, even more important question: you say that in order for this transposition to take place, a regular government should come, you politically called it, I think, a working parliament. But you don't have to think like that and I don't agree with you here. Bulgaria currently has a government, there is a parliament and there is no need to waste time, so I would advise you to work on it. You said that there is a draft bill ready for you to submit it, there is no point in wasting time because, if this is what is waiting, only adverse events can happen for Bulgaria. Such differences should not be made between an official and a political government. Does Bulgaria currently have a government? The answer is yes, so do not repeat the mistakes that GERB made. For many directives, this has been done on purpose, because they have dealt with other works, they have dealt with the Turkish Stream, with the "Belene" and that is why they have not transposed these directives, they have dealt with it, others have been their priorities. But this can't go on like this. So my specific question, Mr. Minister, is that I expect the working group to submit the bill, which you say is already prepared, if it is of the right quality, to propose measures and solutions, not to say that we are waiting for someone else to come to do the job. This is a very bad approach, as far as there is no clarity, but not only in Bulgaria, but also in other countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u131	What is your question, Mr. Dimitrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u132	I think the Minister, unlike you, Madam President, has understood the matter, so there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u133	You've expressed your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u134	So I hope that you will make a concrete commitment to making a decision and action on the transposition of the Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u135	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I have not said for a moment that the work is stopped and we are waiting for someone to do it for us. The order is in front of me, but I don't see the point in listing the names of the officials who are listed in it. And I will thank you again for the compliment that you expect for these two months to do the work that has not been done in two years. But I told you the bill is in a very harsh way. If we make it... There are things that must have a serious consensus between many instances. This consensus has obviously not been reached so far, I do not know for what reasons. We're still working on it. If we can bring it into a form that is representative enough to be submitted to the Legal Commission with you, it will be a success for us as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Anastasov, from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, transposition or non-transposing of a European directive may be a tactic which is subject to some other logic, for example, the Ministry may have decided that it will directly transpose the next package of Fit for 55, which the European Commission has already presented. Since you have answered much of the questions we have had, my current question is: is there a national document or a national plan, by which logic these directives are transposed or non-transposed? Your work on harmonizing the legislation of what national objective and strategy is subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u139	Thanks for asking. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is an integrated action plan to be followed for the adoption of all these directives. As far as the targets are concerned, I'll let you know. In the Second National Report on Bulgaria's progress in promoting and using renewable energy, the mandatory national target of 16% of renewable energy in gross final consumption of energy is achieved. In the following years, the re-execution of the national objective continued, achieving a 21,56% share of renewable energy in gross final consumption of energy in 2019. With regard to the objectives of the sector "Transport', there is a lower share of "7.89' compared to those set out in the National Renewable Energy Action Plan, with a 10% share of renewable energy planned for 2019 in the "Transport' sector, which is due to the imposed restriction on the use of conventional biofuels produced from cereals and other starch-rich crops; the introduction of a demand for the consumption of biofuels from a new generation and the relatively low consumption of electricity from renewable sources. The 2020 target is 20% for a share of renewable energy So we have goals, there's an integrated plan to go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group. Stand up BG! We're coming! Come on in, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u142	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The directive that we are discussing is extremely important with a view to introducing the categories of own electricity use from renewable sources and a joint consumer of own electricity, but from renewables. Such categories have already been introduced into the Bulgarian legal peace through the famous Electricity Market Directive. In essence, these are opportunities to encourage structural changes in the Bulgarian energy sector by moving towards decentralisation of the sector and more competition in the quality of the price of the service. In addition, these directives also create conditions for greater energy autonomy of individual households and of individual municipalities or settlements and, in turn, is a prerequisite for promoting small and medium-sized businesses at local level. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: is the investment interest in decentralised production of renewable energy at the level of households and communities already declared investment intentions for the consumption of own renewable energy? In other words, what does Bulgaria lose by delaying the transposition of these directives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u143	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Babikan, you are asking about the negative impacts of the fact that the directive was not introduced and transposed in time. In economic terms, the negative impacts and failure to comply with the requirements of transposition of the Directive, which will put the country at risk, this is the first negative consequence of the launch of the European Commission under the procedure. 258. In the worst case scenario, it could end with an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Maintaining the status quo will not lead to an impact on stakeholders. And it will continue the implementation of the current regulatory framework, which is unable to respond adequately...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u145	Quiet, please, colleagues! I see you're tired, we'll take a break after the hearing is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u146	...of the amendment to the European Union's common policies on climate change. The lack of a legislative initiative to introduce additional measures to enable the achievement of a national target for a share of renewable energy will not allow the projected reduction of emissions resulting from conventional fuels, which has a negative impact on the quality of life of the population, as well as the limited opportunities for sustainable economic growth. With regard to the communities you mentioned, they are also regulated in the directive and its transposition into national law will enable these communities to have criteria to form. Other reliefs are given in the directive, which we cannot apply at the moment. These are the relief of the administrative procedures to be carried out by small producers. There is talk of a notification regime for producers that are below 10.8 kilowatts. Thus, the transposition of the directive does not have these negative consequences for people's desire and initiative to build small RESs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Moving on to the second series of questions. There is such a people? No question. From GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u148	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this regard, as Mr. Minister mentioned, part of the Clean Energy package for all the people involved is a megapacket which was adopted as legislation. It sets clear objectives both at a common European level and as individual commitments of each Member State. As far as Bulgaria is concerned, the clear commitment we made is as follows: 27% RES in final gross consumption by 2030. What does that mean? This relates to three main sub-targets, namely renewable energy in electricity, transport, heating and cooling. My question, Mr. Minister, is aimed at the way of achieving the goals. It's not a criticism, it's more constructive. How can we approach and pay attention at this stage because it is important? Surely the transposition of the directive will happen, the question is the objectives we have set ourselves, namely 30% renewable energy in electricity, 42.6% in heating and cooling and 14% in transport are a challenge. It is extremely important, in order to achieve these objectives at this stage, to think about the policies to be set to support the process of achieving these policies, because only in the electricity over 2200 megawatt photovoltaic installations are necessary, over 250 megawatt winds and over 200 megawatt biomass. My question is as follows: are you planning, in accordance with the Directive, other financial instruments or grants aimed at fully complying with the Directive, besides the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, in order to achieve its objectives? For me, it is greater concern to set the necessary policies in time to implement all the objectives in the directive than to worry about when it will be transposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u149	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stankov, your concern with the questions you're asking me is a little late because it should have shown up earlier. And this directive should be adopted on time so that these things you ask me can be planned more adequately. With the new directive, there are new sustainability criteria, there are many new things that need to be reflected. Given that you are a year and a half behind on the work on this directive, I do not see why you are so worried about these issues now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u151	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u152	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I'm going to try not to ask the same question that my colleague asked, but I'm going to do an interpretation. Obviously, it's the delay, it's indisputable, and it's also obvious that we want to have some clearer rehearsals and clearer action from now on. There are three other things that are obvious. The plan has not been adopted, i.e. the directive has not been transposed, excuse me, but it is available, as is the National Plan................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u153	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u154	...which has been revised several times by the European Commission with regard to Bulgaria and the Clean Energy Package and all that the Green Pact provides. My question to you is as follows: do you think that the funds you set up and provided for in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan are sufficient and adequate, taking into account all those circumstances that I have said, even though we have not transposed the Directive, and although we will probably still be working on the National Plan.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u155	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, I can't tell if, although this is not over, and although the other is not done, will the third happen? Because in what is not done, there are many criteria, many factors that affect what we have already pledged to adopt as a plan. So until we have a final version of the transposition of the directive with all clear criteria and new proposals, such an assessment could not be made adequately in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u157	Thank you. A question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u158	Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In case of capacity shortages, Portugal and Chile shall conduct international auctions. Very interesting! In both cases, Portugal and Chili for the colleague who asks who. These auctions are profited by new technologies. However, the more interesting question, Minister, do you think that the focus in the future policy of your government, of this parliament, of the next parliament, of the next government should be the small RES, the small capacity of the rooftops of the people? There's no transmission here, no transmission losses, they're inside the city. This will also lead households themselves to have electricity income, not to have concentration in large players. Is there enough incentives for households, in your opinion, to currently create such small RESs? And if there isn't, what should be done? Because speaking of this directive, in fact one of the strategic issues is precisely this: how to develop Bulgarian energy, how to reach the goals of the European Union? We from "Democratic Bulgaria" prefer to reach these goals of the European Union, creating very small capacities from Bulgarian households, very small RES on the rooftops of the people. And not, as was the practice in the past, a very bad practice, the concentration of huge projects, where there are also transmissions that are outside the city, which create a number of complications. People themselves, if they understand that it makes sense for them to build such capacities, will feel involved in the process, they will understand that there are benefits and meanings of new technologies. My specific question to you is: do you think there are enough incentives at the moment so that households can engage and build such installations?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u159	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, and there are currently incentives to build small RES from households. But what practically happened? They are not concentrated in large cities, but started buying houses in abandoned villages in order only to make small RES because they have a preferential price. This mode of action has slightly distorted the idea that you are developing that people need to build these RESs primarily for their own production. In Bulgaria it is now so that these RESs are being built for trade purposes. They disbalanced the system because they're being built in small remote villages, where the losses in distribution and transmission are getting big. The new directive provides for certain criteria to limit this way of construction. I mentioned that up to 10.8 kilos are even spoken not about the authorisation regime, but about the notification regime, people to notify that they have done such things. So it's a good idea, fulfillment at the moment does not meet the expectations that have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, today you are a little more persistent, more aggressive. I see that you have finally been acquainted with Directive 2018 and Directive 2011, European Council Decision. It is a good thing that you did not take the decision of the European Council on gender equality, but we are talking about a serious document. But I'm surprised why the importers, when I suggested you withdraw the hearing, didn't, and now you're not asking any questions?! Because this directive is a document that requires a very serious reading, a very serious assimilation and subsequently articulation from this tribune. This way we ask ourselves questions with silence, this job will not happen, nor have you been president since 2014. Four years of the Energy Commission, and today to go out on this platform, to pretend to be great, that you are not familiar with those strategic documents that are missing, but are familiar with the Turkish Streams, is also not very decent, Mr. Dimitrov. However, out of respect for the Minister, I will ask a question to take after this respect on the subject. As far as we understand, and you have all heard that the National Renewable Energy Action Plan is from 2012. Since 2009 it is the last directive in relation to Bulgaria achieving 16% and then 21% of the final consumption of energy from renewable energy sources. Since then, what strategic documents does Bulgaria have related to renewable energy sources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u163	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, the main legal act governing public relations in the field of renewable energy is the Renewable Energy Act. The current law and the regulatory framework have transposed the requirements of Directive 2009/28 to promote the use of energy from renewable sources setting out the regulatory framework for promoting the use of energy from renewable sources in the Community by 2020. Directive 2009/28, as you yourself said, establishes the mandatory national targets of the Member State compatible with the 20% share of renewable energy and with the 10% share of renewable energy in transport for electricity consumption. Bulgaria has established a binding national target of 16% share in renewable energy in gross final consumption. The adoption of Directive 2018/2001, within the framework of the legislative initiative, laid down principles for all policy makers to ensure that, in 2030, Member States collectively achieve at least a 32% share of renewable energy in gross final consumption. On the basis of the European Union Regulation 2018/1999 on the management of the Energy Union and climate action, the Republic of Bulgaria has prepared and submitted to the European Commission the Integrated Energy and Climate Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria 2021. The Integrated Plan sets out the main objectives and measures for the implementation of national energy and climate policies in the context of the European legislation, principles and priorities for the development of energy by 2030 and with a horizon up to 2050. The integrated plan establishes the national target for at least 27% of renewable energy in gross final consumption in 2030 and will implement existing and additional policies and measures for which it is necessary to implement the relevant regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u166	Procedure, Madam President. Madam President, I just heard from you that you want to rest. Please note that at 14.30 there is a joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health and Social Policy, and there is therefore a hearing of three leading ministers on budget update, which is why I ask you to think about not having a break in order for the hearings to be possible, because, according to the Rules, with the time you are giving for a break, the sitting is also being extended. So we have, like, half an hour with the extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u167	I accept your remark on the procedure. In that case, I would ask that we listen to each other, not to make noise in the room, so that we can quickly end all hearings.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u168	Thank you, Madam President, for understanding. Dear Minister, the directive we are discussing sets the European Union's overall objective for the share of renewable energy that the Union must achieve by 2030. This share is 32% for the whole European Union and 27.9% for Bulgaria, according to the National Climate and Energy Plan. Will Bulgaria cope with this goal and what are the main challenges? The issue is also important in view of the proposal to raise this goal in the package "Ready for 55".
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u169	Thank you for your question, Mrs. Capon. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Capon, yes, provided that the directive is transposed in a short time, Bulgaria will manage. Otherwise, we face the case of not being able to take into account progress on certain criteria that are set out to us, as the new directive has changed the sustainability criteria for biofuels and this makes it difficult to take account of the results achieved, which, although achieved, may not be taken into account. I think there was such a case in 2012 in the field of Transport. Also, non-compliance was reported not because there was no execution but because the directives were not transposed in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That's the end of the question. I give the floor to the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" for attitude to the hearing. Here you go, Mr. Hinoski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u172	Dear Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I support the thesis that there are a number of serious deficiencies in energy policy in the sector and, apart from the thesis that this directive is not harmonised with our legislation, I would like to express another very disturbing thesis that we have seven more criminal procedures in progress against Bulgaria in the field of energy, which could cost us tens of thousands of euro fines. Some of them are in a phase before punishment, and another part are in a memo status only remark. But I would like to ask you: in addition to this directive, on which you obviously need to propose a draft PID in legislation, do you feel it necessary to activate urgent proposals in legislation and other procedures? Some of them concern energy efficiency, nuclear safety, radioactive waste and they are all in the stage of severe criminal procedures against Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u173	Mr. Hinosky, we're in the opinion phase, not the questioning phase.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u174	I am asking a question because this is part of our committee's agenda after lunch and I am taking this opportunity for everyone to hear that this is one of the other topics that we will be discussing today. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u175	You can finish with your opinion. You have a few more minutes because there's no one to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u176	I'm moving on. I think your answer pleases me. I believe that you are on the right track, but it is not done enough in this area and especially in this directive. There are many open issues that also concern the country's business and energy security related to the implementation of this directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u177	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. From GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can safely say that I personally am not satisfied with the answers, and at least I did not get an answer to my question, but rather received a personal attack. If the Minister had come to know him perhaps in detail, he would have seen that 2018/2001 is something like my E.N.N.N.N. Why? Because this directive is directly agreed during the Bulgarian Presidency and not only the Bulgarian Energy Efficiency Directive, the Management Regulation. Fifty-five hours of negotiations and trialogs with Parliament, the Council and the Commission -- something that shows to this day that Bulgaria is a flagship for negotiating the new legislation that determines the energy path of the Member States by 2030 and their objectives to be met. Instead of getting acquainted with it, Mr. Minister started explaining who, how, what, how long he had to do. Mr. Minister, after Bulgaria has negotiated this so important European document, this directive, part of the team that was with me, is already working in Brussels, working at the International Renewable Energy Agency, which has been proven experts who, thanks to their work at the moment, are on the highest floors and can help Bulgaria. On the other hand, we must note that what was expected of you as minister of the ministry was precisely by coming on the basis of the work done by the working group to upload the package of documents for public consultation at strategy.bg, to submit it to the Council of Ministers and to wait for the formation of the new government, so that Mr. Hinowski, as chairman of the Energy Commission, could present it at the first meeting, not explain which directorate she saw it at the Ministry or did not see it. In this regard, I appeal to you, it is obvious that this Parliament will also be short-lived, and in the future you will be able to continue to work on the transposition of this and other directives, including the imposition of policies to achieve these objectives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan the policies for stimulating the construction of photovoltaic panels, heating and cooling with geothermal energy were laid down and very carefully described both in stimulating the sector and business as well as in the direction related to local authorities, and not least aimed at households, where there is the greatest interest at the moment. What did you do? You took some money from the funds for the renovation of Bulgarian citizens and directed them to megaphotovoltaic parks. I repeat about megaphotovoltaic parks behind which there is some foreign interest! It is in this directive, which I doubt you know about it, that these 128 pages, which have passed at least hundreds of times through my hands, are explicitly emphasized that smaller parks should be made, to decentralise electricity production from renewable energy, in order for the electricity system operator and small operators to be able to balance the system more easily. But what am I burning? In the end, you would have known all this if you had just bothered to get to know the facts in advance. As for the answer to my question, perhaps simply constructively we could sit down and talk about the other financial instruments or grants that the Bulgarian citizens who sent us here could benefit from to think and talk about them rather than attack each other. We were going to talk not only about the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, we were going to talk about the financial mechanism on which we were going to negotiate, which certainly did not bring it to the end and you missed at least 15 million. EUR for stimulating the production of energy from renewable sources in the country's territory. We were going to talk about the Modernization Fund, which also has a working group, and you can accuse us of not being prepared by colleagues with the relevant regulations for using funds both for large installations and for green energy production. You can also charge us with $1 billion. 200 million. euros that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u179	Your time, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u180	Let me just finish one more sentence. I apologize, Madam President. You could've accused us of a billion. 200 million. EUR, which we have managed to negotiate on the Green Deal, and will ultimately also be aimed at green energy in the most affected regions, namely coal regions and those who have supplied labour force for these coal and industrial regions. But I repeat: why am I on fire when you haven't even bothered to get to know some of the things I'm talking about right now?! Thank you, Madam President, for the extra time. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u181	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. I would like to make an explanation regarding what Mrs Capon said about the break. I draw your attention to the fact that the Rules have already regulated the rest given by the President of Parliament. It is no longer extended the time of the sitting. It shall be extended only if requested by parliamentary groups. Just so you know, I'm not taking a break. I can see the number of MPs in the Chamber anyway. I think that in view of the hearings, the Members of the National Assembly will be interested in them. We continue with the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u182	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, at the moment the situation is a little absurd: the ICN colleagues have requested this hearing.......................maybe they have met you, and they don't ask questions. Mr. Hinoski took a stand, announced that there would be an Energy Commission today, but in the end it is nice to know what the goal is. I heard very carefully from my colleague Stankov just now. If the working group has any effect on the transposition of the Directive, it is good to be made public what has happened and to start discussing it. Because at the end of the day, whether it will be another office or a regular one, a parliament can still be formed. The important thing is to make progress. Maybe that was the point of the question that the colleague asked. Colleagues, the fact that a directive has not been transposed is not the end of the world. I'm telling you this because there are other directives. The point is that this directive is extremely important for Bulgarian energy and hence for the Bulgarian industry and we can talk almost about revolution. Therefore, we must be extremely careful how we will do our homework, because it is not enough to transpose a directive but what will happen next. Unfortunately, we, up to this point and with the Recovery Plan, are still piling on some money that is due to our country as a Member State. We're still in a ridiculous situation where, as they say, we haven't done our homework and we don't even want an evaluation. Colleagues, there's something else. In addition to this plan, there are territorial plans for a fair transition. Here's our big question of what's happening to them. Because that's four plans, maybe five plans for coal regions. There's extra money in there, too. How do you tie this money to the National Plan for a fair transition? This is extremely important because these are additional funds that can help. You can see the current tensions in the complex of Maritsa-east. Yeah, someone might be lobbying for the RES, but at the same time, we have to decide and tell these people what's gonna happen. We must be honest and honest with them: the fifth is to come first, third, over the years. The unions have now signed a petition, that is, the money from these territorial plans when will be made public to the mayors, to the business, to the NGOs, the public itself should know. The National Plan. We really have to give ourselves a hand, because this is a transformation that cannot make any political force. No political power has this capacity to cope with this revolution that is to come. Of course, it's nice to have attacks, but we also have to be constructive. For example, I would like to commend you for what you did when it was the electricity price crisis, because if it wasn't for the Ministry's intervention, given that BEH withdrew and could do so, because I repeat, BEH has no right to interfere with the price of the electricity sale, but when there is a significant change in the way of production, BEH has this competence and then the Ministry reacts very correctly. When it comes to such essential issues and when this work is done, let it be publicly available, let us know what is happening and find the right solution, because personally to me, to tell you frankly, I find it uncomfortable for Bulgaria to be the country that has not yet surrendered its Plan. That is why I said: either bring this plan into Parliament to debate it, or rather give it to Brussels to launch the procedure. A nice, bad one can be changed, but purely administrative, purely bureaucratic procedure must start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u183	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Dimitrov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u184	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Today, about an hour or so we are debating a directive that has not been transposed. There are many more in energy, for other sectors there are dozens more. Therefore, we need to choose our agenda and programme more carefully. To begin with, I propose that, specifically for the Committee on Energy per quarter, Commissioner Hinoski, we request from the Ministry of Energy, any minister, a report on how far the transposition of the directives has been made. Let's introduce it for the other sectors.. every quarter to have a report. Based on this report, to assess where the biggest delay is and only where the biggest delay is, to make such a hearing or hearing in the Commission is perhaps more appropriate than to involve the entire parliament with energy.. you see that some of the colleagues are not, have no competence on this subject. Maybe there's no point in the whole National Assembly with such questions... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I exclude the group of GERB, which is all competent on this topic. They made a remark to me, which I accept, and I apologize, of course. Now, no energy strategy has been adopted, honourable Members. We don't have a strategy! Here we are talking about transposition of directives, we do not have a strategy in energy. That's where we should start. How can we have transposed directives if the strategy issue has not been resolved?! To a colleague from GERB who took the floor, that is what I wanted to tell him. You must have tried many good things to do, colleagues, but the very fact that there is no energy strategy adopted; the very fact that you acted in a piece, you did it for nothing but to be able to happen some projects and others not to happen and not to seek an explanation. What's important? What is important is that, speaking of renewable energy sources, we need to reach a consensus that really small producers are encouraged to create small capacity on the roofs of buildings in large cities or in cities where consumption will absorb them. There is no point in a village having a huge generation of electricity, and the village itself cannot absorb this consumption and have to be carried somewhere else. This model obviously doesn't work for us. What we can have consensus on, because I agree that the point of such debates is to understand each other on the topics on which we can work together, yes, we must stimulate small producers, but to put this criterion And, yes, that means first place in big cities, but not only cities that have enough consumption. This has to be done. When producers themselves feel that this is how they receive incomes, normal Bulgarian citizens start receiving incomes from RES, not having such a huge concentration of companies that built RES themselves. That's a bad model. We know very well where this model came from, but it is unfavorable. I've done a lot over the years. Everything that's depended on me, on the subject. By the way, Mr. Minister, we noticed from "Democratic Bulgaria" that when Mr. Atalay asks you questions, you are reading extremely convincing answers, which I personally explain to myself by the fact that Mr. Atalay's questions are very well-founded and there is no way for a person to have a written answer on them at the end of the day. [[Heckling]] I say that with respect, of course. The next issue on which I see the possibility of consensus is the Recovery Plan. Yeah, he's connected to energy, colleagues. Yes, this excessive delay is a problem of all parliamentary groups and of all of us. Let's think of a consensus in September to introduce this plan. I've heard from my colleagues at the "There's such a people" that they have specific remarks. "See it with Mr. Pekanov, smooth them out." Let September bring this plan in. A greater delay is no longer reasonable because the delay has two aspects. First, the implementation of the projects themselves starts to fall behind, there is a danger that they will be realized. Secondly, the advance Bulgaria should receive this year. Come on, assuming there's no drama for the advance, it's important, but it's not dramatic. The slowdown of projects and reforms related to them could be a problem. I wish that, in the context of dialogue, we could agree in September, the Recovery Plan will be tabled. Colleagues not to say that they have remarks, but to go with their remarks to Minister Pekanov, to be reflected, to find a solution and to move the issue forward in September. So, first, an energy strategy, then a quarterly report on what happens to transposition of directives, thirdly, stimulating small producers. This will be extremely important for Bulgaria, for energy and for the growth of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u185	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the topic relating to Directive 2018/2001 is a serious topic. A moment ago, the former Deputy Minister tried to get into the essence of the directive, explaining to us that what we had taken as a goal before we adopted it as a goal, we agreed, even though then some MPs asked us a question as to whether we would handle it. In advance, we have agreed that we will achieve the goal. The objective of this directive to achieve 32% use of electricity from renewable energy sources from gross, final consumption is history. You know that the European Union already requires 40% of us to reach final gross consumption. Besides, maybe this is the time to do a substantial analysis once again. The first and main thing we need to do is an analysis of the base capacities, on which we need to determine the green energy that will be used in Bulgaria to be able to balance it. From these base capacities we need to know who will be decommissioned, what new we will build in their places, but all this is already derived from the green energy that we should be producing. So far, the Strategy has been the opposite: we will build the "Belene." We will not build the "Belene"; we will do the "South Stream." We will not do the "South Stream"; we will do the "Balkan Stream" "Martin Dimitrov wants the "Turkish Stream." Dear colleagues, if we do not do the Strategy, on the basis of this strategy, which should start from the territorial plans, which we cannot yet do, because BSP, GERB, I see all the other parties, and so on, maintain that they must lie to the miners that they do not want to do the territorial plan because this territorial plan must have green energy. From green energy to make green hydrogen, which is also in this topic. Therefore, Mr Minister, on the basis of this directive, on the basis of the Strategy of Territorial Plans, if we do not pay serious attention to the National Sustainability Plan (National Sustainability Plan) what needs to be tabled and we are looking for the smallest in a quarter, we should be gathering the Energy Commission to take a decision, I am offering you three days because this Parliament will hardly stand for three months. Things in energy are as serious as the non-seriousity of the MPs who are not here today in this Chamber. Things in the energy sector are serious because when the representative of the "There is such a people" comes out on this platform and tells us that the proposed amendments and additions to the Energy Act for wholesale trade on our free market are not applicable, and you are going out and saying that you have received a letter from the European Commission, which tells you to do so immediately. Honourable Members, we need to submit the sustainability and development plan to the European Commission as soon as possible in order for the next funds to be made, the modernization funds, to be made, as soon as possible those projects need to be made by means of which to absorb the funds of the............................................................................. Otherwise, I was under the impression that the colleague suggested that we look at the directive so that some more funds could be made from their green energy companies, where they have produced so far, which have been installed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u187	Your time, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u188	Ending up, if you want, every day to come the Minister of Energy here in this Chamber and answer the question that I have asked him what the strategic documents are and not to answer anything essential on this issue, and Martin Dimitrov recognizes that we have agreements with the Minister, heavy and woe to energy. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u189	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. And stand up BG! We're coming! So, how'd you figure it out now, the way you're running it? Mr. Babikan, let's hear about the way we conduct ourselves. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My point to you is not to allow this type of behaviour by certain colleagues with personal attacks, because this is why the public rating of the Bulgarian Parliament is traditionally low. I'm very sorry, but weren't you, sir, a minister in a Triple Coalition?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u191	Mr. Todorov, please! It's the way it's supposed to be. If the colleague was affected, she could have asked for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u192	Were you not a minister in a coalition called the Triple Coalition between BSP, DPS and a party that is no longer there? And now you have the opportunity to have a five-year coalition. So don't attack us, guys. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u193	Mr. Todorov, this has nothing to do with the way you conduct yourself. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u194	Thank you, Madam President. I really hope that today we will not discuss ours and your companies, but we will talk about the substance. The directive we are discussing is an opportunity for at least two major changes in the country's energy system. Firstly, to change the energy mix and to introduce more renewable energy at the expense of carbon intensive sources that affect the climate, environment and health of Bulgarian citizens. The last one I don't know is whether someone is calculating it in the budget of the Ministry of Health or the Health Insurance Fund. Secondly, to create a viable and active sector of small and medium-sized businesses that produce renewable energy on their own account or for the benefit of their community. Renewable energy technologies are becoming increasingly accessible and the interest in investment in the sector is growing. Bulgaria has incredible natural resources that would serve as a catalyst for the development of this sector. There are regions in the country with more than 2400 hours of direct sunlight on an annual basis. There are other areas with an average wind speed over 4 meters per second per year. We also have a maritime territory that can make us one of the European leaders for offshore energy production, and I will not talk about Denmark. In addition to these resources, we see growing investment interest. Only as of May 2021 have received applications from 22 investors to join new RES plants with installed power in total 1971 megawatts. In comparison, at the same time last year, the investments were for a total of 479 megawatts by 14 investors. Apparently for the big ones there are opportunities, for the small ones there is no. The advantages of this sector for Bulgaria are not limited to the replacement of clean energy, they also include creating conditions for local economic growth and new jobs in the community. The country's energy problems will also be helped by moving towards decentralisation and decentralised energy system based on free private initiative and competition at cost and quality. The question here is why do we not hurry to create regulatory conditions for the rapid development of this sector? Why the Forty-fourth National Assembly did not transpose this directive, having had time for this since December 2018. In this meeting, you, too, were part of the asking questions. Forty-five doesn't make sense to talk, it was nine days. Why is it necessary that the accounts of Bulgarian citizens are constantly aggravated by NEK's debts instead of profiting from free competition in the prices and quality of services? Why can not depopulated regions of Bulgaria find new life during the energy transition to green energy? Okay, I can say wrong, if we do not transpose the directive, the European Commission will launch a criminal procedure against Bulgaria. And maybe that's the good news, if that's where we're gonna sit and wait. Otherwise, these questions would only remain hypothetical, but, thank God, there's a poker that can get to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u195	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. That's what we're done with, and this hearing. We're moving on to a hearing of the CEO... Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u196	Procedure. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the purposes of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, insofar as Mr. Dunchev is not a Member of Parliament and a Member of the Council of Ministers, I propose that we vote for his invitation and inclusion in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u197	Mr. Sandov, after I reported the hearing, I would have asked for a person's clearance. Thank you anyway. Hearing of the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency Alexander Dunchev on the grounds of art. 110 of the National Assembly's Rules on the Management of Hunting Farms, Hunting Bases and Hunting Areas Management Contracts in the Republic of Bulgaria. The importer is Borislav Sandov. I request permission from the Executive Director of the Agency, Alexander Dunchev. Please, voting mode. There's no quorum. We can move on to a roll call. I can do it through the computerized system, but the result will be the same, so I'm moving on to reading the names. Name check. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Simeonova Varbanova- here Alexandra Krasimirova Sterkova- here Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov- here Alexander Blagovestov Todorov- here Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- here Alexander Velislavov Todorov- absent Alexander Victorov Rashev-- here. Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Stykov Markov-- here. Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Alper Azizov Muradov- here Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- here Andrey Nikolaev Mikhailov- here Anita Petrova Kocelova- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- missing Antoinette Andonova Stefanova- here Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- absent Armaan Agop Babikan here Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bajram Yuzkan Bajram here Bilyan Borimirov Karshovski- here Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- absent Boyko Lubomirov Kletchkov- absent Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- here Borislav Dimitrov Sandov- here Burhan Ilyazov Abase- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valeri Plamenov Lachovski - absent Vasil Dimitrov Apostolov- here Vasil Yordanov Georgiev- here Велизар Матев Шаламанов- here Ventsislav Mihailov Asenov- here Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- absent Vladimir Marinov Marinov- here Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev- here Vladislav Panchev Panev- here Galina Ivanova Tavalyka-Georgieva- here Galina Ivancheva Dimitrova- absent Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - absent Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Zaprev Dinev- absent Georgi Zaharinin Popov-here Georgi Yordanov Ganev-here Georgi Milchev Chepishev- here Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Gunner Nihat Ahmed here Daniel Valeriev Georgiev- here Danny Stefanova Canazireva - absent Daniel Pavlov Mitov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Deliana Valerieva Pesheva- absent Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva- here Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Jekova Taneva- here Desislava Tsvetanova Tsoneva- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov- here Dimitar Angelov Ivanov- absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev- absent Dimitar Borisov Glavchev- absent Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Yordanov Yanev- here Dimitar Petrov Syarov- here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Gradev-- here. Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Ekaterina Spasova Gecheva-Zaharieva- missing Elisaveta Dimitrova Belobradova- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Esheref Kasim Esheref-here Zhecho Donchev Stankov- here Zhivka Mihaleva Iron- here Zhivko Ivanov Tabakov- here Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova - here Zornitsa Velinova Stratieva- here Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- here Ivaylo Vanev Valchev- here Ivaylo Krasimirov Kozhuharov- here Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev- absent Ivaylo Peev Staribratov- here Ivaylo Hristov Hristov- here Ivan Borisov Totev- absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Vassilev Hinoski- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- absent Ivan Rumenov Klisurski- here Ivan Stoynov Kuchukov- here Ivelin Stoyanov - here Ivo Angelov Hristov- here Ivo Georgiev Atanasov- absent Iliana Petkova Zhekova - absent Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kaloyan Milkov Iankov- absent Catherine Georgieva Riyahova- here Katya Maximova Paneva - absent Kiril Milanov Ananiev-here Kiril Sashev Simeonov- absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Georgiev Angelov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasen Kirilov Kralev-here Krasimir Georgiev Valchev- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krum Georgiev Donchev- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Lydia the Great Marinova-- here. Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Ivanov Bakardzhiev- here Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov- absent Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- absent Manol Kostadinov Peykov- absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Maria Vassileva Capon- here Maria Tsvetanova Petrova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Petrov Andonov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova - absent Meglena Harry Guncheva- here Mika Mikhailova Zaykova- here Mincho Hristov Kuminev- here Mladen Naydenov Marinov- here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Momchil Kunchev Ivanov- here Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova- here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nikolay Dimitrov Hadjigenov- absent Nikolay Emilov Hristov- here Nikolai Nankov Nankov- here Nikolay Stefanov Radulov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- absent Pavel Vassileva Mitova- here Pavlin Pavlov Krastev- here Pawnita Mihailova Petrova- here Pencho Malinov Malinov here. Petko Angelov Kushtrev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Petar Nikolaev Nikolov- absent Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Dimitrov- here Petar Yassenov Marinov-here Petya Bozhidarova Dimitrova- here Petya Dimcheva Mihalevska- here Petya Nikolaeva Tsankova- absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Ivanov Danailov- absent Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski- here Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov- here Radomir Petrov Cholakov- here Radoslav Nikolov Boychev- here Radostin Petev Vassilev- here Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov- absent Rosen Kirilov Dimov- here Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- absent Rumen Stefanov Pavlov- absent Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov- here Svetoslav Bonchev Kolev- absent Svetoslav Georgiev Georgiev- here Svilen Tsonev Andreev- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sezgin Yussain Mehmed- here Sylvi Kirilov Petrov- here Sylvia Marinova Nikolova- here Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- here Stanislav Svetozarov Balabanov- here Stella Dimitrova Nikolova- here Stefan Apostolov - here. Colleagues, I suggest we try to vote because it's 1:00 a.m. without 20 minutes, so we can listen to the CEO. I put the vote to the Executive Director of the Agency. They voted 122 MPs: 118, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Executive Director of the Agency. We're moving on to the hearing. I request that the importer make a brief presentation within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am extremely outraged by the way this group voted against me. [[Noise.]] In Bulgaria, hunting from ancient food activities has now become one of the most preferred and most popular hobbies in Bulgaria. It is practiced by over 150 000 hunters, including some of them from the Bulgarian elite. Thanks to the exceptional natural resources that Bulgaria owns, in the last century the hunting farm in Bulgaria has developed at a very high level. That is why the results achieved, which have been assessed at a very high global level of the acquired trophies of almost all types of game. In the last 30 years, however, hunting farms and hunting bases have become the arena of the backstage management of the state and business and through them is the trade of influence between politicians and representatives of state institutions and business. All this makes hunting farms extremely attractive to large businessmen, with the whole process becoming a big secret to society, at least until recently. Thanks to the media publications and the civic interest, we have found that about 7 million acres of land, forests or these are about 6.4% of the territory of Bulgaria, are handed over through management contracts for companies that are about 170, which are close to the large businessmen in Bulgaria. In the absence of public control, these hunting territories gradually lead to a complete feudalization of the vast majority of these 7 million acres of land and forests. They are managed by prominent businessmen through opaque possession and use of public resources that fall within the territory of our forestry and hunting holdings. Often these are forests, wild game, buildings, illegal construction or fences. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u199	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u200	This, of course, is at the expense of the state, the hunting community and society. With his first media appearances Mr. Alexander Dunchev, Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency, said will... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u201	Mr. Alexandrov, Mr. Gazhev! Sorry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u202	...to investigate hunting concessions and their opaque management, as well as to protect the public interest. For us as MPs, it is extremely important to understand what is happening in hunting farms, what legislative measures are necessary to restore transparency and the legality of the management of these territories, so as to ensure the imperative provisions of the Hunting and Conservation Act, such as the increase of game reserves and the preservation of game diversity, the preservation of the genetic fund and the equality of all hunters. That is why we invited Mr. Alexander Dunchev to inform us about the results of the checks carried out by the Executive Agency and about who and how these territories are dedicated, under what conditions, what is happening today with these contracts and what purposes they are being used for, whether abuses have been established and what measures can be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u203	Thank you. I give the floor to the Executive Director for informing the National Assembly within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u204	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the House! Thank you for the opportunity to tell you about what the Executive Forest Agency is currently looking into in the Bulgarian state hunting farms. Before I tell you about this, I would like to thank the Bulgarian firefighters, forest workers and many volunteers who are currently struggling with forest fires. [[Applause.]] Only a small part of the fires have natural causes, such as lightning, most of them are from human negligence, so our colleagues are sending them to fight the consequences of the negligence and neglect of our compatriots. A tribute to colleagues of mine who died in Southwestern Bulgaria, from a Southwestern state-owned enterprise. Hunting farms, you probably know that they are about 28 in Bulgaria. I hope most of you have visited them, I'm sure there have been cases where you have not been able to visit, precisely because of the problems we are going to talk about. These hunting farms are one of the prides of Bulgaria because, despite all the problems of communism, at that time, the leaders have done something very meaningful, put in state policy and a lot of government money to make Bulgaria famous for the trophies, for the game that there are in Bulgaria the noble deer, the wild boars, deer, more rare deer shovelers and muflons, deaf people. A wild man who has a great chance to lighten the eye of people like me who aren't hunters. Recently, I was taking my family to a hunting farm where we saw a deaf, deer, wild pigs, wild goats. It is extremely lucky for people who are not hunters to see animals, but we also understand why these animals are there. Because hunting specialists left over from the time of the soccer, as they say, are still there, still alive and making great care for these animals to have them, to be able to hunt, but also to delight people who are not hunters. So the Bulgarian game and the Bulgarian hunting farm have developed during the time of the soccer thanks to many specialists who were then trained. At the moment there are fewer and fewer, it is very difficult to find such footage. They are driven away for various reasons from the pressures in farms of different forces, to the fact that this is an ungrateful activity that is not as well paid as many work activities already in Sofia or the big cities. We've been running around with the team of the Forests Agency to see what's going on out there. Why were we circling? Because only three months ago no one knew how many hunting farms in Bulgaria were, what was happening in them. Only the case of the established illegal construction caused the spotlight and its light to try to unlock the secrets of these hunting holdings. The fact that there is illegal construction, and that no one can stop it, neither the hunter guards, nor the directors, even one burned up like a fuse, has shown that something strange is happening in these hunting farms. As soon as we got a chance to get the leadership of the Forest Agency into government as part of the caretaker government, we visited several farms. Those were the Iskars, it was the Sherbas, it was the Izvoras in Devin, it was the Rossitsas in Sevlievo, it was the Dunavs to Ruse and the Black Loms to Popovo, as well as the Aramlitsas in Elinpelinsko. Seven-eight farms and we stopped because there was too much tension that we started to generate, because we did something that had never been done in previous governments................................................................................ We've pulled all the files, dozens of files, we've searched them, we've seen them, we've analyzed them. We analyzed all the hunting farms with their joint operations contracts 10 years ago and found the following: these hunting farms that have joint activities contracts, i.e. there are private partners, are about 20 farms. These contracts were signed mostly after 2007 and 2008 when the Law of the National Assembly changed the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game and created an opportunity for private partners to enter into partnership with state hunting farms, to share costs and to care for the game to improve its condition. The game data shows that this has had an effect because after poaching in the 1990s, in the last 20 years the game in Bulgaria has doubled. You wonder how that's gonna work? Maybe some people know, others don't know, but we've looked into how this happened. The purely financial contribution of private partners is a quarter of the contribution is not a big deal, compared to 75% state hunting farms, i.e. for example in the last five years they have been flooded by state hunting farms 43 million. BGN, and from private partners....................................................................................................... The profit of all this work is only 15 million. BGN, i.e. an extremely low return of about 25%. A country and private business have actually invested large amounts of money to recover and preserve the game to have it for ordinary people to watch, and for hunters to be able to use it. What happens, is this price profitable? Yeah, it's cost-effective. For example, noble deer have increased from 15,000 to 30,000 this year. The wild pigs suffered because of the plague, we can't say such nice numbers there, but we have a double increase in the game of deer, of deaf people and of other animals. So their benefit is substantial, however, it turned out not to be financial. It turns out that the protection of game by private partners is mainly carried out by the fact that they are very strong and manage to create such security that can cope with poachers. No matter how many civil servants struggle, by sending to a poacher, prosecutor or judge, and that's the way it is. While these powerful people with means and positions proved to be able to create guards to protect the game. That's a great benefit, and it's been very helpful. What, though, is the price of this bearish service? The price of this bear service is that by settling in these hunting farms. We currently have four farms where they actually invest 1 BGN. per hectare per year. For example, in the State Hunting Industry, the contribution per year should be about 10 thousand. BGN, the cost of the hunting farm is several hundred thousand leva and against 10 thousand. lv. Or 15,000. BGN, for example, as it is in the Grammatikovo, these people receive direct access to the management of the farm. You will say: how is this possible, these are just private partners? Go and talk to the colleagues from the hunting farms and find out that everywhere these rich, respected people we know, we know some of them, just with their economic positions they manage to subdue the management of the farms to the extent that they say who is the director, who is to go hunting on the farms, who is to use the bases. They use hunting bases, residences and so on as theirs. Three of them have already been privatized, the fences are running them as they please. In some cases, there are three also privatized fences. In Hunting Farm, you understand that there are three buildings built with investment of the private partner without any sanction from the hunting farm, without documents, just the man built three buildings of his own discretion. Why is this happening? Because it was all a huge secret until recently, no one had seen the co-operation contracts, no one had seen the inspection protocols by the institutions, no one had found out who the private partners were in these hunting farms. Within the caretaker government of Stefan Yanev, within the caretaker Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, we have made public all checks in hunting farms for the last year and back, we have made public the analysis of the site of the Forest Agency, which I am now talking about, with all the facts, numerals, details, details, to the last detail you can find on the website of the Forest Agency the whole analysis with graphics, with figures, who has given you how much you have invested. It's all public now. You can see the private partners who are "Travelerstroy" in "Black Lom"; "Agricom" in "Tervel", "Manekstar" in "Balchik." Until recently, no one knew who these companies were. "Marina 2003" in "Vitoshko" "Studena", "Biomaining" in "Iskar". You can check which people are behind them and they are not random. And that's not bad. These are the people who can change for good hunting business in Bulgaria. Our conclusion from the entire analysis is that if we want to protect the game, the interest of these people who are willing to give money is with your help, with the working committees we have created a working group at the moment with representatives of all these legal entities, representatives of key companies and representatives of hunting associations, to offer you how to change the rules so that the game, the state interest and the investment of legal entities is also protected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u205	Your time, Mr. Executive Director, is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u206	Last word. This partnership has been established on the basis of some contracts that are hidden concession contracts, however, which do not reflect any law of the Law on concessions, creating total opaqueness, inequality, does not protect the quality interest of the hunting farm, very often legal persons, replaces contracts, is not respected and there are extremely many misunderstandings. All of this is covered up and now is the time to change the rules so that there is a level playing field and solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u207	Thank you. We are moving on to asking questions from "There is such a people." Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dunchev, you disappoint me a little! You are the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency, and under the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act, you are obliged to check every year all these contracts you say that if you had not become the Executive Director, no one would have implemented them and checked them. In the second round, I will ask you questions about these contracts in particular, but in the first round I would like to ask you................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because I went and I am curious: Have you checked it, is the construction legal and how the cost of building a second villa was justified in the presence of a first villa? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u209	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. You have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u210	Thank you for the question, and the answer will be very short. I didn't do an investment check at the hunting residence in Ormana and we just didn't get there. We have 7 more holdings to check by the end of the year is our deadline. Why don't we have time? Now I cannot justify myself, however, in the farms where we were, there was so much work that a team of several people could not check all the cases in Bulgaria. We are struggling with forestry, with the wooden mafia, fighting for transparency, we have made transparency systems, we have done 20 analyses in just 3 months Give us time and we'll get to Ormana, and there's nothing to stop us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u211	Thank you. Is there a question from GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dunchev, what is the state of the forests in the state hunting farms compared to the other forestry farms? How many of them are certified? Is the joint activity interfering with the proper management of forests and forest resources, or is it the opposite? Is there illegal logging in hunting farms with contracts for joint activity? By the way, this is a direct commitment and control of the IAG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u213	Thank you. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u214	Thank you for your question. In fact, this is one of the problems that you raised with hunting farms. Who pays the bill for us taking care of the game, private partners enjoying these hunting farms as private and keeping their friends there?! Our analysis shows and I will quote figures: over 30 million of all the 43 million that the state has invested in the last five years in the game are actually at the expense of logging. On most of the hunting farms the costs are covered by neighbouring farms or by logging in them, so in the forest we pay for the pleasure of units and for having game. Fortunately, over 50% of the state forests have already been certified in the last 10 years. I personally helped the Southwestern State Enterprise to certify a fifth of the forests in Bulgaria that are in the territory of this enterprise. Certification changes slowly but gloriously the good management of forests. What is the problem when foresting with joint activity is detected?! For example, the problem with hunting is that someone has to cover the costs. We cover them by logging, but there we extract from the forests in a way in which they can't actually resume because there are superbills of animals. In fact, for decades, who is older and has hunted, remembers that in hunting farms it has not matured because the forest in logging cannot be restored naturally, as there are many animals. There are special conditions for raising. Hunting farms are in places where the game is grown to migrate to neighbouring areas. At present we have such hunting holdings as the Black Lom, the Danube, the Rossitsa, the Palamara, where the amount of game is more than the eligible habitat stock. Thanks to these farms, this game is spread to neighbouring territories where ordinary groups use it. Only now, in order to cover this cost, the state of the old days is no longer available to throw the money and cover the costs. The logging is covering it right now. In many of these farms it is logging, including in conflict with game conservation, because the game simply requires calmness, requires it to graze the growth of the forest, and if we open it and dilute it, it cannot be restored. So this is also a reason to rethink how we manage these hunting farms. If we want to have them as once upon a time with the function to protect the game, to recover, to disperse, we need to change the logic of these state hunting farms. They should perhaps have a purely state function, without interference sharply, privately and be the enclaves of the country where they care for game in a way that other private partners cannot care for, and in a way that the state protects forests through, are maintained in a way that the game is calm. Calm require the deaf, calm require the noble deer during the marriage period, calm require the wolves, which are very favorite game of some of you and the hunters. So we have a conflict between logging and hunting. This is also one of our tasks.. together with you to look for how, but this is done by prioritizing what we want to happen to these hunting farms, how to manage them from here on, as they are currently managed for only one private benefit, without the state's vision, and the state has given up almost entirely and we rely on you to find a solution together.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u215	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u216	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Executive Director, it has become clear about the checks made by your department and that they have been uploaded to the site. Most of us have probably met or at least those who are interested. My specific question to you in this regard is: have any procedures been started after the checks have been carried out? Is there a specific action taken on certain farms and, if so, what are they? Have any sanctions been imposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u217	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. As a result of the checks it has been found in some cases that there has been a change of contract and, in other cases, so to speak, in one of the holdings there has been an increase in prices and the holding has acknowledged and taken measures. In another holding and simply not to specify, excuse me, so I do not embarrass the legal persons.. irregular change of contract and it is also recommended that it be terminated. The function of the Forest Agency under the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act is on the basis of the findings made to make proposals to the Minister, to send proposals to the farms themselves. At the moment we have a reaction from two or three farms, and when we have a comprehensive view on all hunting farms, we will also come up with more specific requests to the Minister, as this is a complex process. If we are going to say this one must be stopped, this one must be stopped, we are going to a war from which neither the game nor the farms will win. Our tactics are a little different: we will do an analysis of the situation, we will inform the Minister, as we have already done. He has ordered us and we have already created a working group, as I have told you, and based on the already established facts they are sufficient and are for very serious problems, to seek a solution, not to lead to conflicts. In recent years, there has not been one treaty terminated by the Minister unilaterally because it is simply very difficult. In practice, contracts are like a white sheet of paper and it is very difficult to grasp the grounds, and let alone that these strong people are pressed to terminate their contract, and in most cases the guarantees, as required by the law, are not retained, and in almost 100% of the cases consent has been reached to break the contracts by bilateral agreement when they are not implemented. So even if we offer the minister a break, he may not be able to because the contracts are extremely loose as text. The sanctions. We don't impose sanctions, we don't have the opportunity, we just offer the minister what to do. Again, I stress that our vision was to scan the case with hunting farms and look for solutions and not just confront people because they have contributed also out of respect for their contribution, it is good to find a solution together with them. Maybe we'll talk a little later about the decisions in the light of your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u219	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u220	Dear Mr. Dunchev, thank you for the exhibition. It makes it clear that there is a point in the joint-use contracts with private companies when contracts are respected. We see that the state of the game is improving and increasing, but I have questions regarding the state hunting industry.................................... As I understand from your exhibition, there are currently three illegal buildings that are being built in the State Hunting Industry..Iskar, and this is clear to the entire public in Bulgaria. My question is: is the contract with the private company being respected, what are the investments that the private company has made in recent years, actually since the start of the joint-use contract, do these investments correspond to the amounts invested in the construction of these illegal buildings, and what proportion of the amounts are invested by the private company and what part of the state hunting holding? Accordingly, what does the contract provide for: are penalties for failure to comply with the joint-use contract, specifically in "Isker', and what are the possibilities to break this contract? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u221	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Panev, for "Iskar" and "Palamara". "Palamara" is the place where the game is really very good, looking at it in a fence, only it is the will of the private partner that does not respect the principles of hunting and science, but rather the will of the legal person, which is an example of the fact that things do not happen properly there. There are many more animals than you need per unit of area, which means that there is no selective shooting, no one cares about the trophy qualities of animals, but is chasing just to have animals. For "Isker": our inspection showed that on the ground there was a hotel built with a pool in a place where there was never anything but a claim that there was. But there were students from Lesotech with our professors, they also publicly stated that there had never seen a nail. A new warehouse was built at the site of a smaller building, three times smaller than the new warehouse, and a pig farm was built. During our inspection we saw there pet pigs, and it is claimed that this is for the acclimatization of wild pigs. So you see that gradually the farm begins to be used for some other purposes, but not for the care of the game. We've checked who invested in these buildings. Turns out there was no paper trail, one document was never found who put millions of levs into these three buildings on the Hunting Farm. On the paperwork that... [[(Reply from.. Democratic ……]] Who? According to reports provided by a Southwestern enterprise, investments were claimed to have been made by the private partner there, only we didn't see a single document about it. How this happened, no one knows. There's a case going on for one building. The bad news is, there might be a cover-up. For the other two buildings, brand new, in places where there have never been buildings, we have such documents from the Hunting Industry.. even tomorrow I think we have a joint check on the ground with representatives of the National Assembly at 14:00 in the Hunting Farm, to see how brand new buildings are announced for the renovation of existing ones. I think there's perfect evidence, anyone can see with their eyes on the ground that there's nothing left, not even two of the places there were never buildings, let alone they were renovated. And it's getting very interesting why institutions turn a blind eye. The treaty provides to be upset when its clauses are not respected and when a violation of the Forests Act is established, as we are currently trying as a country, to prove it, but it is very difficult because the institutions claim that a brand new illegal construction is a renovation of an existing building, but we will also fight this. We've requested assistance from the police because there's a suspicion of manipulation of data and documents. For example, what funds are invested? In the public consultation that we have uploaded, you will see that the private partner definitely invests and respects its clauses in terms of the necessary investments. lv. The hunting farm invests between 400 and 600 thousand However, revenues are between 100 and 200 thousand. BGN, return between 20, 40, 50%. For several years the contribution was not paid as a donation of 100,000. BGN was paid only when the scandal took place, which was in violation of the contract, but there was no one to track it for years. The interesting thing about this contract is how the competition from the country was won with a promise, which is also a hole in the law, that 15 million out of 19 million will be donated on the 15th year of the contract. We already have cases where contracts are prematurely terminated. Perhaps this was also intended, just to win the competition with an extremely large amount of donation, of the 14th year the private partner to give up, and thus to eliminate the competition at the zero year, another proof that these contracts, their competition procedures, which have always been opaque until the last year, actually create extremely unfair competition and prerequisites for these holdings to be conquered by certain individuals. So the assigned revenue of 380, 340 thousand. lv. per year, 457 thousand. lv. Every year, they don't work out at all. They're really between 100 and 200,000. BGN, which is a prerequisite to break the contract, and we are about to offer this to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u223	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u224	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dunchev, at the beginning I would like to address the importers of this hearing, who put it off hard and hard for three weeks in a row because they had planned to have one such hearing for the exact part of the hunting farms, provided and at a time when the Bulgarian forest is burning. My personal opinion is that it is better to have a hearing of the Minister for Forest Fires and the measures taken by the Ministry than for hunting holdings. Let's get to the point. I very much hope, Mr. Dunchev, that you will be as specifically prepared for my asking as for the previous Hunting Farm, because my question will be specific. As a Member of Parliament from the 19th Multiannual Election Region, Ruse, I have direct observations about the so-called joint activity in the State Hunting Industry. I think you were there, but this campaign trip on hunting farms, a few of them, is not your responsibility. It is the duty of the Agency to report annually on the status of all hunting holdings where there is an agreement on joint activity. So, my specific observations are as follows: the legal person under the contract does not fulfil its financial commitments: raising the costs of the legal person and lowering those of the State hunting holding with false assessments; the lowest share of the costs of a legal person compared to the costs of state hunting holdings throughout the country; gaps in the reporting of real shooting, the so-called organised hunting tourism is carried out by almost the same persons; limiting the clients of the State hunting tourism holding by the legal person; constant conflicts with neighbouring hunting associations, and the tip of the insolence is cadre by the legal person in the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, in particular in your agency. My question is: what do your checks point to, which you have done at the State Hunting Farm, are these observations confirmed and what measures will you take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u225	Thank you. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u226	I'm looking for protocol, Mr. Abase. There's protocol in here somewhere, but not wasting your time, I'll drive by memory. Thank you for your question, Mr. Abase. Indeed, fires are a key topic, but people who are facing them need protection, and they do not have one. Why? Because the management of forests, frankly, is largely controlled by politics, by the strong of the day that smashes the farm colleagues, the colleagues from the district directorate of forests, they are a kind of subordinate people, as you also said about. We believe that hunting farms are exactly the same place where this power of construction begins in the forest system, and therefore we analyze them to get to the root causes of forest problems. All the problems in the forests, all the illegal logging, all the conflicts stem from the fact that professionals are being forced out, less and less quality personnel work in forests and in hunting farms. They're being pushed out because someone forced themselves! And yesterday I got a call from a gentleman asking if I could replace the director of a holding without even knowing I wasn't in charge of the farms. This construction must stop and protect the professionals. Where does this cadre come from? We saw during the inspections individuals, MPs, judges and so on who hunt in these farms. That's probably where they make their connections, and that's where they come from. So there's almost certainly this because I've been called several times. In DDS, we have actually encountered several interesting problems. There the game is good, it is very, but there is a conflict with farmers, because when it is too much of it, by the will of the legal person who does not give hunting experts to maintain stocks that are eligible, with trophy qualities that are optimal, it comes to animals entering agricultural areas and doing damage. So there's this problem. We found out how the Hunting Farm was pressured not to account as income or to take out his income. For example, a target subsidy received from agricultural payments is considered a profit. It's not a profit, it's a target subsidy. It does not depend, it has nothing to do with the Co-operation Treaty, however, the Hunting Farm is forced to deduct this amount from the costs so that the majority of the profits can be re-distributed to the private legal entity. Under contract, the legal person has to invest every year. However, I have this reference, here it is about 150 thousand. lv. [[shows]] The last five years, on average, is an investee of about 40,000. lv. a year, which means there's a breach of contract. Why hasn't it been terminated? And that's what I'm asking, yes, why isn't it terminated? Besides not being terminated, the more interesting thing is that there the proceeds from the deer hunt are so good that it comes to profit. This is one of the few holdings In most cases, revenue covers one tenth of the costs, i.e. it is absolutely non-profitable all this work from which legal persons earn at the expense of the state. In this case, we have good profits - they are above the target, but these profits also do not cover costs. The hunting farm invests around 400,000. BGN, and the revenues are 300.. simply exceed the target, that is, we also have non-covering of the costs. One smart move, why don't they cover up? They had to invest in hunting grounds. Instead of hunting bases, the legal person has now decided to invest in a mobile wagon, the so-called hunting wagon, to be attributed as a hunting base. We have seen in the treaty that instead of remaining this investment in favour of the hunting farm forever, as is the logic of these contracts, the private party has been prescribed at the end of the contract to collect its wagon. And he's already home! It's the same for cars. Under these contracts, legal persons often invest in equipment that is provided to hunting farms. Here the legal person was tricked and envisaged an investment in SUVs, only for five years. Five years later, he takes them back. [[Replication by National Representative Bürhan Abase.]] What it's worth, what it's worth, we saw it in the spring. It's very interesting there some mouflons, we went and saw them in the fence bought by the Czech Republic, from Poland for 4000 BGN. The count. Every hunter who heard the amount laughed and said: "This is absurd. " Besides being the super expensive price, we went to the fence and saw something more disturbing about the muflons actually were not first-quality trophies, but were suicide trophies, which, as their horns grew, killed them sooner or later. That's where some animals were bought just to be shot. It's this farm and the muflons themselves that disappear. I think the shot is extremely low and even falling. Tell me, how do muflons disappear from a fence, without disease, without anything? This was also observed in other hunting farms, but there was the most pronounced. It's the mooring. Everyone says it, everyone admits it, but no one dares to come out and talk, as I often allow myself, with an apology. Taking it is a serious problem. The conflict with the gangs. We have it in other farms, and there it is. That's because the power of legal entities is such that they allow themselves to take animals from neighboring hunting grounds, put them in fences, most often it's pigs, and hunt secretly in fences. We got this in a few places as secret information, only I can't put it in the reports and grades, because it's just in the ear of people who are conscientious, and I trust them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u227	Your time, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u228	The errors in the reporting of the shooting are not only in the "Danube". And the fact that the same people are hunting not only in "Danube" is also seen in many other farms, this is seen when you look at hunting permits, you can see that they are critical animals, critics are their trophy qualities, so that you can not pay the real prices, that is, we have damage here as well. When I ask my colleagues why this is happening, they say: these people are so rich that even for animals they don't want to pay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u229	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u230	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Dunchev, in your exhibition, in the speeches and questions of fellow MPs there were some problems in the management of hunting farms, hunting bases, hunting territories. My question is as follows: have you identified a need for certain changes in the country's legislation so as to eliminate certain deficiencies, deficiencies or gaps in the regulatory framework, and if so, what action will the Forest Executive Agency take to address these identified problems through legislative initiatives and, of course, through the law of the Ministry of Legislative Initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u231	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u232	Here we come to the essence of the problem that the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Wildlife for the entire college, without being a hunter, just retold the words of all colleagues in the sector, is an archaic law. It is made so as to protect certain interests, and everyone is already ripe for the idea that this law requires consensus, equality. Because I will only give you one example: if the private legal entities in the hunting farms under these joint activities contracts pay 10 BGN. investment per year, the state investment per year, it only next to them has another form of dedication to hunting territories, which proved extremely much more correct. These are the state game farms in the forestry farms. They are about 220 units in Bulgaria, covering three times the size of the hunting holdings if the hunting farms are nearly 4.5% of the country's territory, the game farms cover about 10 percent, the remaining 85% are of the companies, as you know. Something quite different happens in these game areas. There the state wins directly, without any investment, BGN 10 per hectare on average 8, 9, 10 BGN per hectare, without any investment, without any other problems, private countries invest, legal entities around 180 in Bulgaria currently invest about 8, 9, 10 BGN. per hectare, total investment around BGN 20 per hectare, from which the state loses nothing, only earns 10 BGN. per hectare and there is a form where the state does not import any money, the business brings all the money, there is full equality because there is no hidden-covering, there is no private country is stronger, there are certain abuses, but they are solved with transparency, so the market and as an administrative approach in the Law there is a form of dedication to hunting territories much more transparent and clean and defending the interest of the state. And maybe we should go that way, and the hunting farms will solve this with you and with the colleagues who are in the working group. Perhaps there to concentrate entirely on the state interest what we do with the game in Bulgaria. Because of this, the actions we take are as follows. Based on this analysis, as I have already told you, there is a working group, we have had preliminary meetings with 5 of the legal entities. They also believe that if they want to invest money in a way that is not only transparent, but also protects their interest, because they also put money into one, say, a scheme in which very often they are wronged, and we have cases where colleagues from legal entities also have problems, they are also ready to clean up this problem. There is a dialogue and it will have to grow into legislative solutions with which you can help to correct the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game (WALK). It also requires another urgent solution, it is how to achieve a level playing field between legal entities, hunting farms and companies. At the moment the companies are extremely fragmented, they don't have the financial resources to manage their territories, there the poachers' problems are great. They can't keep up with these guys to fight poachers. For the game, the situation is also very bad. Currently with the University of Lesotechnics with associate professor Mihaylov and Professor Ninov, our professors from the University have developed a concept that we also discuss with all hunting circles, whether the hunting companions should be divided. To exist, but the organizational form with which a country is partner and which is equal to legal entities is not at municipality level, which is much more applied in the population principle, laid down as a primary in the Law, so that at municipality level associations operate much more adequately with financial resources, attract them, invest in hunting specialists, invest better in security and thus have equality with legal entities and protect much more adequately game. In the group territory, the problems are the biggest. In the legal entities in game farms, the averages, in hunting farms and private game partners are better off, except for holdings where the private person is more incorrect and abusive. Such examples, in my opinion, from the data we see, are the "Sherba", the "Source" kind of, so we have farms where things don't happen well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u233	Thank you. Moving on to the second round of questions. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The 40th National Assembly has decided that the Forest Executive Agency will be only and only assisting the Minister authority and will carry out a check of the so-called joint agreements. It has not given the Executive Agency any other function than to check and report to the Minister because the Minister is the principal. Once the 42nd, 43rd, 44th, 45th, we'll see now the 46th, hasn't changed it, maybe there was a reason for that to happen. My question is as follows: on 18 December 2020, the Forest Executive Agency entered the report on the annual inspection, which is in the order of the WALD to the Minister of Agriculture. I suppose you should be familiar with him in his part concerning the State Hunting Department. The findings are that the contract is not executed. My question is, did you, Mr. Dunchev, do a follow-up check on the DHS? And what does it turn out to be? A moment ago you said that when there was a breach of the contract, which was found, the contract should be broken, whether it was broken, whether the minister then acted as a conscientious owner and a slightly more general question: since you entered the Executive Agency and became executive director under the order of the Hunting and Conservation Act, how many criminal decrees were drawn up and how many of them entered into force? Because, in fact, you're only talking about established violations, violations, violations, I want to know how many of them you sanctioned because you have every right to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u235	Thank you. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u236	Thank you for your question, Mr. Abrovsky. This is not the annual report that is under the Law, it is not until November. What we have brought to the Minister is a first picture of the situation with the hunting farms. It is not binding, there is no need to make the minister do anything specifically but assess what the next steps are to resolve the problems. It's the easiest way to end their contracts. This will happen sooner or later, because it can't happen any other way, but it will happen after the Annual Report. What we did was not annual inspections, we analyzed the situation in the farms. From these checks in the Izvorika, as you said, I found this report, we see that in recent years we have failed, here is: 2020 with investments of 220 thousand. lv. only 127 thousand were met. BGN, i.e. there is a default. The excuse is that there is a problem with the crown crisis, a lack of customers. It's a contract problem again, because that's a good reason not to be able to meet the contracts, there's no way to get revenue when we're all at home, no one's hunting. The question is, what should be done? A flaw in the contract, that is, we will easily break the contract, but we do not solve the problem. We checked the state of the game. Here it is: the mouflon 260, 200, 200, 180, 190, 2018; 2019 .. 184; 2020.................................................................................. It's slowing down. At the same time, the shooting also falls every year: 2014 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 5 animals only shot at both reduces the shot and disappears. The revenue was verified: 2014 was 75, 2015. .. 170, 2020 1 lakh. Turns out revenue doesn't change because it has a private partnership. In other words, the private partnership itself does not lead to much financial benefit for the state economy. The interesting thing about the Izvor was that in addition to the mufflons I told you about, now that our inspection, a contract has been terminated with a related company to which 15% of the revenues as commissions have flown, related companies have purchased feed, including prices that are several times higher than the market company and measures have been taken here by the holding. What we have finally recommended that we do not go into detail. Verification should be carried out on the deficiencies identified and a report should be prepared to the Agency. That is, we are looking for the country's opinion, the legal person and the hunting farm. We have received such a contract, some measures have been taken, but we do not solve the ultimate problem of all this inequality, for all these schemes, because today we have them, tomorrow others will come and everything will continue as before. That is why our goal is not to go to war with all these people, some of them are super correct, extremely good-natured to hunting holdings. This is the case with Vetinya, in a way with Nessebar, the previous owner, so there are conscientious ones. The idea is to solve the problem of how to manage these farms with legal entities, whether without legal entities, so as to protect the state interest as far as possible. Therefore, our proposals to break contracts will not come until we have a solution to the problem. If we tear up the contracts now, we lose the dialogue with all these people. Who are they? You can see for yourself in the Trade Register all companies who are behind them. We've seen some of these people, we see they're understood, we see they're willing, they've brought in heart and money, just because of the lack of rules they've been left behind and they've had the opportunity to abuse, to get on the head of hunting farms and employees. People themselves are not bad, just the lack of rights have created prerequisites for abuses that we need to stop and see in which direction we will lead the hunting farms. I'm just gonna tell you about the punitives, and I'm gonna give you an answer. For there we have references that are also public, on the Agency's Facebook page, but for criminal purposes I am not in class, but I will prepare for next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u237	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u238	Dear President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Dunchev! We all know that according to art. 9, para. 12 state-owned enterprises under the Forest Act may, after a competition, conclude contracts for joint implementation of the activities with legal entities. We understood that contracts were concluded for 15 years, we understood that this practice was introduced in the distant 2008 period, that private participants should offer a programme of investments and activities by years under the control of the IAG and the Minister in the competition documents. And now, in order not to delay the time, my question is: what is your opinion, Mr. Dunchev, for these joint activities, has or has no positive effect on forests and game? And I would very much like you to answer me: did Minister of the Interior Bozukov authorize the announcement of new ones, and if he did, is there a difference in the conditions compared to the previous procedures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Here you go, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u240	Thank you for your question, Mrs. Dimova. What is the use of new concessions in hunting farms under art. 9 of the Wildlife Conservation Act? The Forest Agency hasn't been through that kind of information, I don't know. The last two such contracts, such two procedures, are a few months before the end of the previous government's term of office. Interesting are the companies, interesting are the faces. It's more scandalous for Gramatikovo, where against 15,000. lv. An annual investment is made around 30 thousand. the hectare under the control of one legal person. We need to see who it was. The joint activities, their benefits, we walked around for a reason to gain an objective idea of what is useful and what it is. Again, there is a benefit because these are strong people with positions. This enabled either their guards or to encourage the guard of hunting farms, to deal with poachers a little better than it is in the game areas, not to mention in the company territory. So there is some benefit for game there, except for farms, where the opposite economic power is used to abuse and shoot off game. We have several farms like this, I shared them. So the benefits are in some places plus, some minus. What are these benefits, you will ask, but those who are not familiar with the contracts? For buying feed. Some of them are farmers, it is very easy to buy feed, others do it at higher prices, third invest in cars that collect them on the fifth year, fourth invest in buildings. For example, in "Aramliets", in "Cherney Lom" and in "Palamara" the investments where of the holding, where of the legal person, led to the quality of the base to be increased and for the last 2 years these great bases to be sold, privatized by persons related to the legal person, that is, you see that there the investments were then used to acquire the buildings. So this is another example of how useful and useless they are for some, and others are clearly not so useful for these investments. What else is invested in? He's investing in security. I'm giving you an example. In the Black Loms, in the fence, which is a concession, a joint operation contract a fence of several hundred hectares, about 200, if I am not mistaken, for years the investment in security is 60 thousand. BGN, the investment in fuel for security is 60 thousand. lv. Last year, the wild pigs were killed because of the plague, but the investment continued. Someone for the same money as last year saw an empty fence, reported some costs for protecting an empty fence, and we ask: what is the point of these investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u241	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria....second question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I'll be as brief as possible. A lot of things have been heard, I think they were important. My specific question is as follows: is there a single state strategy for the development of Bulgarian hunting, what can we, the National Assembly, do in this sense to protect the Bulgarian forest and Bulgarian game? However, if the answer can be specific, first, second, third, fourth. I hope, colleagues, we can all roll up our sleeves together and do what we need to do because we have the ball. Secondly, some farms, especially those who have joint business contracts, do not allow Bulgarian citizens on their territory. Essentially, honourable Members, these are private latifundias. I've lived in Latin America, but believe me, I've never seen anything like it. What measures does the Bulgarian state take? Of course, it is not the person who will answer now, but I would also ask the Minister of Interior: what actions are being taken, the prosecution, to stop? People who want to pick mushrooms, pick berries, if you want to go for a walk in the woods... It's about time this stopped! Thirdly, how can state-owned enterprises improve control of hunting farms in terms of fire safety and the logging of the forest fund? Last week, I had a question for the Prime Minister about fires. This is an extremely sick topic, how much they invested...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u243	Mr. Kuminev, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u244	I'm done. What investment does there have to do with fire safety, a very important problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u245	Thank you, too. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Ladies and gentlemen, as I see that time is advancing, I do not know if we should ask for an extension to the end of the point by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u247	There are committees scheduled for 2:30, so I'm afraid we're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u248	Too bad, it would have been interesting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u249	Thank you. A declaration on behalf of a group? [[Heckling]] We interrupted Mr. Dunchev's response. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Currently, two important topics for Bulgaria are being managed in a complete lack of transparency by the caretaker government. One topic is the migrant and refugee crisis in front of Bulgaria. When we alerted the coming crisis a month ago, we weren't heard. Even the caretaker government and many of the parties here in parliament have allowed themselves to approach the issue with irony. Currently, camps are secretly being renovated and new terrains are being prepared to accept refugees and migrants, without any transparency and accountability for this to the Bulgarian society. Ministers in the last few days have been concerned with commenting that there is no means to manage the crisis. They say how the Council of Ministers will propose changes between the two readings of the State Budget Act to provide funds for police, army and reception centers. After you were warned about the coming crisis, why didn't you do so as soon as the update of the budget was submitted at the beginning of this month to the National Assembly, and now the translucent government will want an additional update of the budget already submitted by the government? Is this the professionalism and transparency of Radev's office? Download the budget, update it and submit it again. We in Parliament will act responsibly. Yesterday it became clear from a statement by representatives of the Council of Ministers that we will accept refugees under the European Union and NATO. So far, Bulgarian governments have always been responsible and solidarity within these two alliances. We have helped the other Member States and the Commission because Bulgaria is an external border of the EU and also relies on this solidarity. Precisely because we were honest and open, Prime Minister Borisov managed to negotiate 160 million. EUR additional funds, physical assistance and security equipment at our border in order not to weigh these costs entirely on the Bulgarian budget. He managed to maintain good working relations with the Republic of Turkey, which reduced pressure over the Bulgarian border, which we want to remind, is also an external border of the European Union. Pressure on our border is pressure on all other member states. Radev's caretaker government must immediately insist to the Council of the European Union on targeted funding in order to prepare the external borders of the EU in Bulgaria and Greece for the coming wave; to raise the issue and seek supporters between the Member States for the immediate targeting of EU humanitarian aid funds in order to assist the currently host refugee countries neighbouring Afghanistan, as well as to reach an agreement with these countries by analogy to the 2016 agreement with Turkey to prevent the problem before it reaches our own borders. This is why we need an active foreign policy, we need authority and access, which President Radev does not have. The second topic, which Radev's caretaker government is developing secretly, is the procedure for acquiring another batch of F-16 fighter planes. We know that the governments of Rumen Radev have an affinity for the procedures for acquiring airplanes, and this always happens in the dark. What is really clear that the caretaker government has ended from answering my question to the Minister of Defense? Following a response to the request for prices and stocks during the spring of this year, negotiations on the acquisition of the second eight aircraft continued. The government has now sent a request for a binding offer with exact prices and delivery dates. The answer will in fact constitute a draft contract for the new F-16s. After its receipt, the Council of Ministers will submit to the National Assembly an investment expenditure project with the exact parameters of the supply contract and equipment prices accordingly. Immediately after his possible adoption by the National Assembly, the next cabinet must sign the treaty. It is important to know that this document also has a period of validity, with which the next National Assembly will have to comply. By the way, this is the road map drawn up by the government of GERB, only for the next regular government, so that it can hold its political talks to support this project. However, we are pleased to find that Radev's government has realised that the continuation of this policy is the right approach. However, we welcome that they have decided not to delay and revise the purchase of eight new aircraft, because this is the responsible decision to continue GERB's defence policy. We just don't understand why this is done in total darkness. It even came to the insanity of yesterday's press office of the Ministry of Defense to disprove its own minister. Why all this secrecy when this process has to be public? We can only assume that it is kept secret because of the many harsh words that have been said on the topic in recent years "How the acquisition of F-16 will threaten our entry into the euro area, how their purchase was a search for political indulgence or an umbrella by the US to Borisov and many, many others similar. Rumen Radev must have realized how false all these claims are and that this is the only right approach, because the contrary would be severe irony. And perhaps there are other commitments made that, unlike those made to our allies in Northern Macedonia, have their extension. The topic of acquiring the next F-16 should be public, as it was when buying the previous eight and the place of this debate is here in parliament. The GERB government has always informed in full the MPs as soon as the procedure was planned. We knew where the money was coming from and how it would be provided, and Rumen Radev's caretaker government has a plan? Let them be so kind as to come to the Defence Committee and at least let us know what they have done. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u251	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Please answer the question from BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks to Mincho Kuminev, because he raised the main problem, raised a question on the main problem of hunting farms and game conservation in Bulgaria, and that is that the state has no strategy. We have a strategy for forests, but we have no strategy for animals, for game and for their conservation. Why? Because there is no such requirement in the Hunting and Conservation Act. I hope we will soon have, because without a strategy what is happening now is happening instead of defending a state interest with vision, we are actually working on the visions of certain people, and we need to change it and be a common vision of both people and the state. What can the National Assembly do about forest and game? He can do what we have already started with at the Forests Agency -- total transparency -- that is, rules in the laws that guarantee total transparency in forests. We already have public records of everything, and our administration has public information about each employee with a professional biography, so that when he meets with him tomorrow, you can find out who he is, whether he is a random person or a proven expert. The next task is to protect the professionals with us, and this is required by Law. The professionals in the woods, in the hunt, no one protects them, but are the main ones who carry the punishment, by the way. To create conditions for public participation and precisely such participation, for example, we have requested, and it is already required, even though the Law does not require it. As an indication, we have lowered it to regional forest directorates when orders are issued to limit access to hunting grounds, to do so only after public discussion to invite them. We made it a test in two farms. "Vitignia" and "Masalat" and invited the stakeholders and reached a total consensus with all the hunters, tourists, nature conservationists, stood on the same line and made decisions not to limit territory so as to stop poaching but to protect tourist routes and create opportunities for hunters to protect their game. So this consensus is absolutely possible and we have proved it. We have created a requirement: when access is restricted, that is what Mr. Kuminev was talking about, the requirement is to indicate as grounds only hunting-business grounds, which are based on the hunting-business plan, not to suck one of his fingers: there I will hunt and stop access. Here's how the rules can be changed even without changes in the Law, but we do it for good will, but in order for the next ones to be able to change it, we rely on you to further develop it in the laws. On our part, we will cooperate with our experience, which we have already created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u253	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u254	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dunchev, unfortunately, we are at the end of the meeting, you will probably not be able to answer this question, however important this was, but colleagues from GERB decided to make a declaration, part of which contains classified information from yesterday's Committee on Foreign Affairs, but this will probably be the subject of another conversation. And as for the importance of the topic, it is certainly important and as far as parts of the Bulgarian territory for a certain purpose are being remade to a private benefit for people who surround these terrains who have the opportunity to benefit from the state budget, here I have a note to Mr. Dunchev. In fact, there is no return and these are losses, and there is only a return when it is over 100% of the funds invested. These holdings are loss-making and are mainly losses from the state budget, although they are in the form of timber extracted from neighbouring holdings. My question, if you still have the opportunity, is: the way these joint operations contracts are concluded, who is exercising control and what is the capacity to carry out this control? As far as I know, the resources in your office are actually pretty low for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u255	Thank you. Please come in for an answer and we'll be done after that answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u256	I'll just say that the investment per year is about 4 million for fire-fighting measures, Mr. Sandov. We have now requested two million more for new Jeeps of the Forest Agency and training and equipment and more for helicopters several million. With regard to control in hunting farms, the law requires control to be carried out by the Forest Agency and the Regional Forest Directorates. My assessment is that over the years this has been formally done for a number of reasons. I hope from now on that will change, especially if we change the rules as well, as the Members themselves admit that it is difficult to check people who can call and fire them or send them to another place where they would not want to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u257	Thank you. I don't think there's time for the issue from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms anymore. We'll continue next week, I guess, this hearing. Come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u258	Madam President, as it is the last question, please extend the time for the declaration that colleagues from GERB-SDS read here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-19.u259	First, there is no such procedure and, second, Mr. Abase, then there is five minutes, and six groups of five minutes are 30 minutes, so there are many more until the end of this hearing. If you want, we can save it for next week. Yeah, next week we'll continue with the DPS, plus the expression of attitude. I think it's best if we don't miss the committees today. That concludes today's plenary session. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
