ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u1	Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues, before the forty-sixth National Assembly starts working, we will need to check the quorum. I will therefore ask you through your cards to see if there are more than half of the MPs so that we can continue. Please check the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, 214 MPs are present. We have a quorum and the meeting may begin. I am obliged to inform you that the meeting will be delivered on the Bulgarian National Television and on the Bulgarian National Radio. Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice-President of the Republic of Bulgaria, honourable representatives of the Constitutional Court, Your Excellencies, honourable representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, honourable representatives of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President Parvanov and Presidents of the National Assembly, distinguished guests and dear compatriots! This is the second time that I have been honored as the oldest MP to open the Forty-Sixth Common National Assembly. This is a privilege not only of age and experience, it is a privilege that I respect very much, and I am very happy to be among you. The first thing I want to tell you is that I hope to see smiling faces and willingness from each of you to share your knowledge and skills in favor of Bulgaria. The sovereign, our people, has chosen us and I count on his wisdom, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I would like to call you to something - let us be good, let us be smiling, let us be constructive and work for this people's dream of prosperous Bulgaria, for a people who have a decent life and is a worthy member of the European Union. I would like to share with you the lessons we should be taking from the election results. Our wise people have told us something very important. It is more than one: firstly, our people have said that they do not want to live anymore so that they want to change. And this came out of the election results when all parties of change increased their result. This means that our people voted seriously, and this is also a responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the parties of change. I also rely on the minds of colleagues who have already been in this Parliament many times who know the procedures and who really want to work for the prosperity of Bulgaria. The second important thing that the sovereign said is that he does not give a majority to any of the parties. That is, he told us: ladies and gentlemen, work together to fulfill Bulgaria's dream. And dreams must come true, ladies and gentlemen. The third important thing that the people said to us with the lower turnout, yes, the elections are a democratic procedure, they are applied, but do we not apply them very often? Now let's stop with the democratic procedures and get to work, because we really have a lot of work to do. It will not be easy, nor will it be fast, and this should be known by all Bulgarians, but it is possible and this is shown by our colleagues from the government, which works so far. [[shows them]] [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to remind you of what happened yesterday. Yesterday the European Commission came out with a Report on the rule of law and there very clearly told us: in Bulgaria there are necessary reforms in the judiciary, Bulgaria needs to make that the chief prosecutor in this country to be tried, to be controlled and to be exchanged. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] They also told us more important things that we should not elect judges without a contest and that we may have a problem with the Supreme Judicial Council. Even though they have left the law under the mark of Magnitski, but this is a stain for Bulgaria, which we quickly and temporarily need to delete and prove that we are really the rule of law, that the rule of law in our country is above all else, ladies and gentlemen, that we want to make Bulgaria prosperous! Please keep that in mind in any decision you make! Of course, we have a lot of reforms to make. We have to reform the education system because we need not teachers who write threes instead of couples to get their salaries because the funding issue in the education system is not properly resolved. And more importantly, what our children are teaching and not getting to the level when, ladies and gentlemen, 37% of graduates of secondary education and even going to higher education are functionally illiterate. I cannot agree that a country that has been fifth in the world in quality of education should now have such a problem! It is natural that our country is democratic, that we must help business. Excuse me, but in Bulgaria 98.8% of the companies are small and medium-sized. Some of them, those who are now walking, really need help. So apart from market relations, we will have to think about how to help our business, because it depends on it to have production and services with high added value, to earn a lot, to have high incomes and to have decent pensions. A Member of the European Union cannot have a complementary income from a pension, a third of the income that a person received at the time he worked, because 35% is the complementary income in Bulgaria, unlike France, where it is 70, or the Scandinavian countries where it is 80 and 90%! There the standard of living of pensioners does not fall because only slightly reduce income. I cannot agree to look the tears in the eyes of the mothers of disabled children or agree that BGN 148. social pension is enough income for people who can't take care of themselves! For all of this, as well as for healthcare, and, say, for structural reform in the administration, there is no mechanical way for us to reduce this administration. No, ladies and gentlemen, in order to do this, we need to introduce digitalization and electronic control. This has been spoken of since 2004, from the pre-accession funds! You may not remember, but I remember a long time ago, and I know that in the first programme in pre-accession funds it was an electronic government and it was 190 million. Euros! I don't know where the 190 million went down, but there's no e-government! Not so far! And it won't, because there is corruption, because there is no way to organize state racketeering on the business if there are not many counters where people can walk for days instead of registering their companies in minutes. So we have a lot of work to do. We've got a lot of work to do! I would therefore like to ask you not to forget what the sovereign has ordered for us, to tighten up and to start working to structure the National Assembly, to choose a government that is most important! Understand: it is evident that the sovereign has not given to anyone the majority; it is evident that the government can be a government in a minority of the more important, ladies and gentlemen, are the priorities of this government and the policies through which it will implement these priorities. So I rely on your high intelligence, I count on everything you know and can, all of you will give it to make Bulgaria's dream come true. Europe is not going to leave us. Europe has always helped us, and now it is helping us. Remember, although there are not many investors, there are still some funds waiting for us in the Recovery and Development Plan on the other part of the European programmes. What matters is what we do with these funds first, not to steal them and, secondly, to invest them effectively, effectively! That is why I call you to reason, to dialogue. Understand, confrontation and hatred are a path to nowhere. Even the worst dialogue has positive results, as long as those who talk to each other have a common goal and the common goal is Bulgaria. Remember, last time I told you who sent you here and why he sent you! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good luck in your new job! I wish you the dream of our people to come true and to greet each other very soon will not be tomorrow with a prosperous Bulgaria! And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is our turn to take an oath so that we can fulfill our obligations. Please stand up. [[Applause. Everyone's up. The text is read by Mrs. Mika Zaykova and is repeated by the MPs.]] I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]] Good luck, ladies and gentlemen. I expect a job from you! Now, ladies and gentlemen, before we hear the words of the representatives of the individual parliamentary groups, let us listen to the anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. [[(Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound. (Applause)]] And so, ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the representative of the House There is such a people to share with us their intentions. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u2	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable members of the Constitutional Court, your excellences, honourable representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable President Parvanov and Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable fellow citizens and Bulgarians! This parliament, which ordered the Bulgarian people, is different from the previous one. In our opinion, it is much closer to reality and to what Bulgarian citizens want. The very fact that the Council of Ministers is present here, unlike last time, means that the people who are standing here are not ashamed to stand before us. You know, we all know what the election results are, and you know to a large extent what we're going to do as a political force. We will propose when President Parvanov... when President Radev gives a mandate, we will propose a cabinet and, of course, we will hold talks about the policies that need to be held. [[Laughter]] [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, that lapsus was fun, really, but it's in the field of fun. The talks that we will have with the other Members about the direction in which we should push the country, I do not think that there are major differences with most political parties.. neither on the subject of the chief prosecutor, nor on the subject of judicial reform, nor even on the subject of the humiliating pensions of our mothers and fathers. So in the next 14 days, if the pre-solicited declarations of change of state, and not of desire for posts, are true, there should be a government that will continue the work that the office has started because this is the direction we believe the country should be developing. If not, the probability of going to early elections is high. So this responsibility is still our responsibility to the majority of the MPs here because you know that there is a political party that I doubt many people in this House would like to work with. I speak for our party. In the next 10 days, it will become clear whether we can work together on the things that we have declared that we want to do, which, once again, I think are the same for most political forces here in this House, or whether we are going to an election that if it comes to that, there is ultimately nothing wrong or undemocratic in this direction. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u3	I give the floor to the representative of GERB-SDS to present his priorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u4	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable members of the Constitutional Court, your excellences, honourable representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable President Parvanov and Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Mrs. Ombudsman, honourable representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, honourable guests, honourable Madam President! The early parliamentary elections did not deliver a definite winner, however, congratulations to the first! They were held under low turnout and clear pressure by the caretaker government against members and sympathizers of the political party GERB. The actions of representatives of the office carved more dividing lines in the Bulgarian society. Instead of the early parliamentary elections to resolve the political crisis, we believe they have deepened it and today we are witnessing a fragmentation of the political system and the inability to build a stable governance. We are also witnessing a blockade of entire state systems in times of health, economic and social challenges. In the 46th National Assembly the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS will be strong, constructive and competent opposition. Our main opponent will not be the ruling parties, whoever they are, will be chaos and idleness, will also be irresponsibility for the state. Unlike other formations, we do not rely on the election result as a victory of a certain political power. For us, the election result is a huge challenge presented and put by the Bulgarian voters, which requires all of us to restore political dialogue, end the war between the institutions and form national unity. These are the three most important conditions for dealing with health, economic and social problems that stand before our society. We are concerned that in the party's management priorities.There is such a people.... we have not seen any of these challenges addressed. In a hurry to present a draft cabinet, the colleagues from the formation of Mr. Stanislav Trifonov had forgotten to mention these problems, and for us this is a symptom of the inability to take into account obviouss and to accept facts that are important not for one political tactic or another, but for our whole society, for our country. It seems that the complex task that the Bulgarian society put before the political system will not be solved in this 46th ordinary folk assembly. After the failure of the 45th parliament in its most important task to broadcast the country's governance, we are faced with the possibility of Bulgaria being governed by major interests in which the responsibility for the country's governance will not be borne by political leadership. Bulgaria has had similar offices of Berov and Oresharski. From the recent past we know that this type of government ends with a collapse, and the bill for timelessness, irresponsibility and robbery, which they carry with them, is always paid by Bulgarian citizens. GERB-SDS will not support this type of government, because whenever we have participated in the government, we have held responsibility for the decisions we make. Possible future governance will be faced with another significant problem, which is bequeathed by the office of the Bulgarian society's growing internal confrontation. We know how hard it is to work in a situation of high social tension. We will be opposed to the next government and because we cannot support a neoliberal programme whose emphasis is placed on the privatisation of the only state bank, the concession of highways and the radical reduction of budget expenditure. To those of you who are deluding themselves that this is a right-wing policy, I will say that this is a policy that is related to the realities of the end of the last century. In a time of global crisis where governments are trying to help victims, we cannot support a programme that will destroy the infrastructure of small and small businesses. We say this with the self-esteem of people who, in good times for the economy, have led a sparing and conservative financial policy so that today, when the whole society is facing economic challenges, the state has a necessary resource to support both citizens and businesses. Unfortunately, in the last two months to destroy GERB, valuable time has been lost to continue and take more measures to make our society even more ready for the upcoming challenges. These challenges will not end either with the date of the elections or with today's opening of the first plenary day of the Forty-sixth National Assembly will continue. Even the worst blows were made on those systems that are required to endure and we are responsible for helping them with their health care, social and economics. The worst blow you've done to the country's health system. The vaccination of the population was literally ruined, and instead of the fall... [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u5	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u6	...to expect a prepared fourth wave of the coronavirus, the Bulgarian society will face trials, unpredictableness and I hope you will disprove me. Instead of preparing to receive patients in hospitals to be continued, people are getting fired, and in the most important hospitals in the country, which are called to treat. Shortly before that, the National Operations Headquarters and retired Professor Kantardzhiev were disbanded. A hundred more examples of such destructive and self-target acts of revenge on the part of the office, which are not to the detriment of GERB, but are to the detriment of the entire Bulgarian society, can also be cited. Such are: the blocking of infrastructure investments; the revision and delay of the Recovery and Development Plan; the depreciation of the renovation of the panel single-family buildings; the revision of economic aid for business and their conversion into loans; the complete suspension of the money for Bulgarian cinema. All this has no meaning but to satisfy the instinct of hatred against the political opponent by all means and at all costs. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, both during the election campaign and today we, from the GERB-SDS coalition, are ready to conduct a political dialogue, to make maximum efforts to restore the burned bridges. We declare this not because we expect to be invited to some future government, but because we are always guided by the belief that the most important condition for the functioning of a democratic system is the possibility of a normal political and interinstitutional dialogue. We are aware that in a democratic system based on pluralism, everyone has the right to their political differences, however, the job of all of us is to be able to perceive all points of view, to try to understand them and to find intersections between them. We hope that despite everything, despite hatred and intolerance, we, the MPs from the Forty-sixth National Assembly, will have the strength to exceed the level of personal insults, revenge and vengefulness, because Bulgaria is facing too great risks, Bulgaria faces difficulties, whose overcoming requires the least courage to conduct dialogue. Good luck to you. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I always thought that every single parliamentary group would say what it would do from now on, and that is why I was incredibly surprised when I heard that it was about analyzing the programme of "There is such a people" and criticising the ministers. [[Applause from IHN.]] It's in the circle of the joke. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBGN]] Smile, please! I ask you very much to follow the regulation for 10 minutes. I give the floor to the representative of the BSP to really lay out his priorities. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u8	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members of the Constitutional Court, Your Excellencies, Dear Representatives of the Religious Communities in Bulgaria, Ladies and Gentlemen Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Members of the judiciary, Dear President Parvanov, Presidents of the National Assembly, Dear Guests and Dear Bulgarian Citizens! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I wish to all a stable parliament and sensible solutions in the interests of the people. We are facing four state-run challenges, government challenges, not party challenges, and it is up to us to overcome them or push the country into a political crisis. We have been selected for the lowest turnout since there are parliamentary elections. This is a sign to all of us, no matter how many MPs we have and no matter what epithets we put in front of the names of our parties this is a sign to everyone. This is also an obligation to compensate for the low legitimacy we have, with a lot of meaningful work to increase the trust of the Parliament institution. The second challenge is that of the will of the people we have a heavily fragmented parliament without the possibility of stable majoritys. In order for this Parliament to work, dialogue is needed. Unfortunately, he doesn't exist. It is pre-minimated with dividing lines and conditions suppressed against parties of the status quo. It's a mistake, and it's a mistake, and it's political. The first political party has already given up on being a protest party and said they are anti-systemic. Dear colleagues, you are already a systemic party. Twice, you were part of the political system in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, the first position in the government of the parliamentary republic. That makes you part of the political system now. Today the red line is not systemic, anti-systemic, protest or status quo, but those who have the will to change the old model of government, and those who want to preserve it or simply hide it behind imitation change. The third challenge is to establish a stable government with a clear time horizon and national overparty priorities. Third elections in a short period will be a tough test for Bulgaria. In this regard, I reaffirm our decision if the first two mandates fail, and if the President decides to hand over the third, the last option for us is to offer priorities on which to step up transparent talks about them, a cabinet to which ministers from the office will be invited, and to ensure stability of the state and security of the people. The fourth challenge is the biggest. Dear colleagues, we are looking at the question of building up the old management model and building a new one - different, and fair. Some see it by changing people, others by changing whole organs of management. Ladies and gentlemen, these people and organs are the result of the problem. We have to fight the reason, and she's somewhere else. The reason is here in this room. Two years ago from this place I said: GERB put corruption in the laws and thus turned it into unpunished. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, lv. were distributed without public procurement because they passed a law in which they The price of the same drug in public and private hospitals is 70% different because they adopted a law according to which private hospitals are not obliged to tender. If it wasn't for us in the previous parliament to stop it, they put in place a law that forgave a oligarch of 58 million. lv. obligations to the State. The root of the model is set here in the lobby legislation, the behind-the-scenes interests of which MPs were conductors. That's why the eradication should start from here, and now it will show if you have the will to do it. For us, from BSP to Bulgaria, it is easy for us four years in a row, in principle and openly fought against this model and we will continue. The second problem is control and responsibility. And here is the question of the change in the judiciary. For us it is clear and clear what we need to do about closing the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office, judicial control over the Attorney General, as well as to say it, and whoever it is, a new KKCONPI law and a new structure of the Commission with new functions. By interrupting the flow of money that goes into the pockets of hidden behind-the-scenes circles, we will give the opportunity to finance policies and solve everyday problems for people. For us, the most important priority remains social policy. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, nearly a quarter of Bulgarian citizens live below the poverty line. For 2020, that's one million and six hundred and fifty-nine thousand people, now there's probably more. Food prices of basic goods.. electricity, water, steam, grow immensely fast, increase inequality, increase the number of workers poor. Autumn and winter this wave will hit heavy households, we must hurry and prepare them. It is very important for us to increase income sharply. We must not leave this for budget 2022, it will be too late. Now we need to update the budget. Today, we have introduced a package of social laws to implement our policies for increasing incomes and pension and elderly people's law; the second year of maternity to be a minimum wage; assistance to a second and third child; the insured parents in the last 24 months - 10 minimum salaries; free kindergartens and cribs; and others with which we have oriented our policies towards the most important adults and young ones. Our second priority is health care. I hope the predictions of a new wool will not happen, but we must prepare the health system for its reception from now on. From now on, consider the Pandemic Action Plan, update it, provide funding. Of course, our longer-term goal is a serious change in the health model, in which there are protected hospitals, an identity card of each person, hospitals are not commercial companies, the state to pay for the specialization of personnel and so on. Third priority is education, science and culture. Forty percent of Bulgarian students are functionally illiterate and this is extremely startling statistics. The only thing that's gonna happen with the renovations of schools isn't gonna happen, even though they're a good thing. Rethinking of the principle the money follows the student. One textbook for one class per item across the country with real content, which is understandable to the children and reflects the truth about Bulgaria; planned commitment of secondary and higher education to the needs of the economy to ensure personnel for Bulgarian production. Fourth priority of the economy. The crisis hit the world economy seriously, of course, and the Bulgarian economy. Some countries have reacted quickly and adequately and have started their recovery today. The government of GERB did not do it either quickly or adequately. In 2020 Bulgaria's economy shrank by 4.2%. Growth can only be ensured by a reasonable and targeted state policy. One of the mechanisms for recovery and growth is the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. We were so late with him as a country. Only two countries didn't bring in the plan. One of them is us. We will bring a question to the prime minister and insist that the Plan enters the National Assembly urgently, discuss it and be sent to Brussels. But for everything I have put before you on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, political stability is necessary. It is a precondition for a successful policy. Now it requires dialogue between statesmen, mind, not emotions, realism, not populism and wisdom for decisions with care for people. Good luck and good luck! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. It's a good thing you remembered the past, because the one who doesn't remember the past is doomed to repeat it, and that's too dangerous. Don't think this is my thought and I'm so smart. No, more than 100 years ago, a Spanish thinker said it, so we really need to remember the past. I give the floor to share with us his intentions the representative of the Democratic Bulgaria. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. President, honourable cabinet members and Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Vice President, representatives of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court, honourable guests of civil society and the diplomatic corps, honourable representatives of the religious communities, dear colleagues with whom hard work is to be done! Let me first congratulate you on starting to plough the state levels together and wish you all the energy and common sense to do as much work as possible. Bulgaria is in crisis. Bulgaria is in crisis and the most obvious statement and manifestation of this fact is that we have not had full, normal governance for over a year. We have no governance that is trusted, no governance that has parliamentary support, and no clear formula for how to form the next governance, and the country is facing extremely complex challenges, and we need to start working on several of them immediately. First of all, of course, preparation for the coming next wool. This is extremely important for us and we will be drilling with colleagues from the other parliamentary forces tomorrow what measures we can take. Without waiting for the broadcast of the Committee on Health, whether we should broadcast a contact group to specify what we could do in Parliament together so that we can start very quickly to support the efforts of the office and the health authorities, to focus on this policy. Secondly, no matter, of course, this is the Recovery Plan. He's been declared. We must ensure that it is imported as quickly as possible, but at the same time ensure, as Mrs. Zaykova said, that the money will not be stolen and that it will be invested in a real modernization of the country, in the human capital of the country, that the Recovery Plan will become a platform for implementing bold technological renewal policies, green policies, including energy, we must have a very serious renewal. We need to start working as fast as possible on a budget, but this should be a budget of change. It should not only repeat the current financial framework, but in it we should put the recovery model in place, in it we should lay down decisive measures to improve the efficiency of public expenditure, because then, and we are supporting it, we will be able, in terms of much greater efficiency, of much greater transparency, indeed, to look for an opportunity to recalculate pensions. To really focus on policies of targeted state investment in social services, in raising children, in renovating Bulgarian healthcare. And what is happening with a hospital in Bulgaria right now should be a sign that it is high time for a serious conversation about health reform. Beyond the specific cases is the systematic inability of Bulgarian doctors to do their work in which they are put, because we never made a complete reform of health care. We need to start this conversation right now. We will also focus on the policies aimed at Bulgarians abroad. The continuation of the reform of electoral legislation, the reform of the legislative process itself, so as to increase its transparency, to hear each voice, to raise, so to speak, the ability of all members and groups in society to participate in this process, to eliminate lobbyism. It will also be a priority for us to focus Bulgaria on the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and to take decisive action to actively engage in the formation and implementation of climate policies. We must implement a package of policies to ensure the preservation of Bulgarian natural heritage, including the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, forests and especially air. We must make investment in Bulgarian culture, education and science really a national priority and I start with culture for a reason, because for me this will be an extremely important topic. In this Parliament, we must stand the Bulgarian national interest, show firmness, but also courage, find a solution to the problem of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. We must stand by the truth, but we must also find a way to become members of the European family together, because this is Bulgarian national strategic interest. It has been said that Bulgaria is in crisis, and this crisis is not a problem of arithmetic ratio of parties in this Parliament. Without understanding its deep reasons, we can never solve it. This crisis is a crisis caused by Bulgaria's corruption model. This corrupt model has its roots in the totalitarian regime, in the continued influence of the services and structures of the communist regime. It is incorporated politically into what we call the Sarai model, and has its highest manifestation so far, I hope it will remain the last, in the management of Boyko Borisov. It is this model, precisely the solution of this problem as a systemic deep problem, that is the real answer to how Bulgaria should emerge from the crisis. It is in terms of how any political power can be positioned on this topic that the Bulgarian political space can be understood. No adjective parties of the protest, parties of change, do not make sense if they are not guaranteed by concrete actions from now on. Who are the parties of change? Which parties of deep change will be understood by our ability to work purposefully and effectively precisely on the solution of this problem, because it is not just a problem of stealing. This is a problem which in fact suspends the republic because corruption in Bulgaria means the possession of state power, and a republic means the publicity of the state power to be carried out on behalf of the people, through the people and for the people. Corruption in Bulgaria erodes Bulgarian sovereignty to a critical extent because Bulgaria is currently under three monitorings in the area of justice, along with the usual one, which is for all European members. The monitoring is not stopped specifically for Bulgaria and Romania, the so-called CVM, whatever we talk about, and we continue to be monitored by the Council of Europe, imagine. The last report in this regard repeats to us once again things that have been said and crossed over for decades, and we turn a blind eye to them. When we see the presidents of two Bulgarian parties in the election period going to meet Erdogan, this is also an expression of the shaking of Bulgarian sovereignty. [[Applause from DB.]] When in Bulgaria we no longer even talk about joining Schengen, when we cannot broadcast representatives, to fill our quota by representatives in the European Prosecutor's Office, when it is necessary for our closest allies to accept an intervention of the variety of "Magnitski" after which some people are photographed with jerseys with the face of one of the people who was subject to these sanctions, this also shows that Bulgarian sovereignty, the complete Bulgarian statehood is very bad. Do you understand that the Bulgarian state within its alliances is beginning to look like pariahs of the European Union, of NATO. We need to find forces together, all of us, to start solving this problem, to strengthen sovereignty and to bring back the republic. There are several topics on which national priorities related precisely to this topic, which for us will be a matter of national, I would say, priority. This, not least, is the decisive reform and recovery of the security sector in Bulgaria, including the conduct of lustration. Restoring Bulgaria's energy sovereignty because when instead of really diversifying and modernizing, we invest 3 billion in building Putin's tube. Is that sovereignty?! We must continue decisively the modernization of the army, not just as updating of arms, but as a platform for the transformation of entire sectors of security, economy and education. We have to introduce at last and thank you for reminding us of e-government, after spent not... What did you say: 40 million? Two billion!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u11	Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is the beginning.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u12	Shame! Finally, we must introduce e-government and it must be a platform for deep administrative reform, which will free Bulgarian citizens and entrepreneurs from this burden of uncertainty, of hanging out and of the possibility of being treated and humiliated. It's freedom. We need to restart the system of regulators that really guarantee the enforcement of the law and not the application of any signals. And last but not least, we need to conduct judicial reform. A judicial reform that will finally do what... And you know, I'm even uncomfortable quoting the European Commission report because the Bulgarian citizens said so. Mr. Geshev for another opening of the Bulgarian Parliament does not dare to appear here. I hope this is an expression of the fact that he is preparing to resign. [[Applause from DB, ICN and IBBNI.]] We need to show that there are no irresponsible public authorities, and especially this applies to the Attorney General. We need to implement a bold judicial reform. This time we will not import or offer a bill. This time we're gonna start a debate. We will invite everyone, I repeat, all parliamentary forces together to debate, each to expose their vision of judicial reform. Those fellow Members who say that yes, this topic should be placed on a much wider basis. Let's start with legal education, let's see the state of all the elements of the system, but we can't! To close our eyes to the state of the prosecution, we can no longer turn a blind eye to the fact that what specialized justice has become is unbearable, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that KPCONPI in this form and with this leadership is a bat. All of this we have to reform it! Allow me just one more sentence. We will talk to everyone on these priorities, because the Constitution puts the MP and conscience in the same sentence. We know who we are, we know very well what we are chosen for! Therefore, without complexes, we will have a dialogue with every single parliamentary power and with every single MP. Because we believe that everyone here is a patriot, that everyone here wants Bulgaria to move forward and led by this faith, we will talk to everyone. Dialogue is an absolute prerequisite for finding a solution to all these problems. The dialogue with our opponents is something we're going to do. The dialogue with those with whom we look in the same direction is mandatory, colleagues! [[Applause from DB.]] So in a spirit of dialogue on these priorities, we will look for a formula for a governance that is really not just some governance, but a management of deep change, of transformation, which will give a new page to Bulgaria. Let's try to do this, and as they say, God help us! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that Mr. Ivanov is right that there is a lot of work, only we do not start from the bare lawn, because these young people who stand by us started this as far as the law and powers allow them, but we do not start from the bare lawn, so we have a good example. Thank you, colleagues. Now I give the floor to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to share their views. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members of the Constitutional Court, Your Excellencies, Dear Representatives of the Religious Communities in Bulgaria, Ladies and Gentlemen Ministers, Dear Representatives of the Judiciary, Dear President Parvanov, Presidents of the National Assembly, Dear Guests, Dear compatriots, Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of the National Assembly! Let me answer Mr. Ivanov first about the banter. Mr. Ivanov, if you have complexes from your past, don't address them on others. The edifying tone does not go to a deputy prime minister accusing corruption of the power in which he himself was involved. [[Applause from DPS.]] The shaking of Bulgarian sovereignty is to wait for instructions from foreign embassies, oligarchs, media monopoly like Prokopiev with their corrupt intentions. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! ……]] The party of oligarchy and media monopoly should not have a edifying tone, and the call is for dialogue and constructiveism. Now let me, at the beginning of our declaration, first of all, congratulate all Muslims with the Kurban Bayram holiday and wish everyone health, joy, bright days and berecket, as today our hearts are open to mercy, good and mutual respect, so that there may continue and have more wisdom and responsibility in all our works. Generosity, tolerance, good neighbourliness and togetherness are instructive, and they are our absolute value. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today is a memorable day in Bulgarian history. The 46th National Assembly is held after the short life of the 45th Parliament and the second elections are produced within 3 months in one calendar year. While some speculate, suggest, comment or openly claim which of the future or future cabinet is connected to the DPS, how much and how the winner or any other party has ties to the DPS, we at the DPS are working to have a government and Bulgaria to start coming out of the crisis. We at the DPS work on how to make the life of all Bulgarian citizens better and everyone to live decently, to work and to be satisfied here in Bulgaria, and every day to see more clearly their future and their children. We of the DPS do not engage in assumptions, we do not seek or create intrigues, we do not expect and we do not want power for the sake of power itself. We know that the state of affairs depends on radical reforms, that the country needs a clear political and management programme. We need to deal urgently with many tasks in order to be, if not up to date, at least one step from the European Member States of the European Union. Elections and election results have clearly shown the will of the people. The people want change and this change goes through dialogue and the necessary compromises in the name of the great goal... a worthy life for every Bulgarian citizen. This change goes through political wisdom, government thinking and behavior plus expertise. If we replace one timeless with another timeless, there's no point in wasting our time. If, instead of the SUV from the TV, we're waiting for the achievements of the government, there's no point in wasting our time. And all those who take over must know that there is no time! An hour should rather indicate priorities and present the management programme. Let this programme be clear and short-term on each priority. Only short periods and accelerated paces, combined with correct solutions, can cure the damage done. Success requires sacrifice, and we all need to be ready for it. It is true that reforms require greater confidence than election results do not suggest, but it is possible that this will happen if there is a consensus between government and opposition in Parliament on the basis of dialogue and mutual respect. We of the DPS call for such a consensus! We're ready for dialogue. We call on all nationally responsible parties to have a responsibility, above all, to the future of our country. Let the media demand and expect reforms, not showy intrigues and sensations, to require programme implementation, to require accountability. Bulgarian citizens are exhausted by elections, by election promises and demonstration of helplessness hidden behind arrogant behavior. Bulgarian citizens know that power derives from them and they have the most important word. Power is primarily a responsibility. Let the ruling hours soon realize that much work and responsible decisions are ahead. The opportunity for a minority government to take Bulgaria out of the crisis is only available under one condition: responsible behavior, long-term vision, mutual respect and dialogue. It's a historic moment! It's a historic mission! There is nothing greater than having the will and determination with the necessary capacity and vision to change the world, whether you are a minority or not. We sincerely wish the government success, but we also warn them: Bulgaria cannot afford a new timeless time! Be at the height of your responsibility! I wish successful and fruitful work at the 46th National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Extreme applause by the MPs from the DPS who become.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u15	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. And now I'm giving the party the floor with a new beautiful name: Stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u16	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Vice President, honourable lady of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, representatives of the judiciary, honourable representatives of the religious communities, your excellences, fellow Members! Our main task in this National Assembly is to fulfill the will of the ordinary people of Bulgaria to live in a fair, rich, prosperous rule of law in which every decent person feels justly appreciated and supported. We have made a decision to replace in our name "Mouthy Out!" with "We come!" because the call "Mouthy Out!" is no longer enough to drive the goons out of the daily lives of Bulgarian citizens. After decades of mobilization conducted by GERB, the goons are well dug up on all floors in all the authorities. Moreover, yet the clashes with them will cause upheaval and turbulence in public life. We do not have any illusions that the goons will voluntarily refuse to break away from the healthy flesh of the state, but we have the determination to illuminate this process and to guarantee that they will no longer frighten, harass and disturb Bulgarian citizens and businesses. That's why we're here to get rid of the goons. We must change the laws, too, so that mutration in the future is not possible, regardless of who is in power. Let it be known that nothing will stop us from going back to the squares where we come from, at the first sign that in this building there is a replacement of the will of the people of the protests, of the ordinary Bulgarian citizens. At the first sign that a replacement is being prepared we come back to the squares and the streets of Bulgaria. The will of the people of these elections was crystal clear. They expect from the formations of the protest to unite and perform positive transformation, acceleration and modernization of Bulgaria after a decade of stagnation. They expect us to support, form, stand behind a respectable government that takes care of people, not the interests of party elites. We do not aim or negotiate positions or plot power. Let me be clear: the responsibility and the right are the first political power. Congratulations to such a people! Congratulations! [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]] Your victory over GERB puts an end to the 12-year hegemony of GERB a time of stagnation and undermining democracy. We are ready for talks with "There is such a people" and with "Democratic Bulgaria" and to support a government that is dedicated to the agenda of Bulgarian citizens. We want justice! We want justice both in terms of punishment and in terms of the distribution of the goods to those who create them, the Bulgarian citizens. We have promised and made a Committee on Revision, and we are submitting a draft decision today to continue the work of the Committee on Revision in this Parliament. We want to see who will vote against, who would be opposed to continuing the illumination of corrupt government, who would be opposed to the illumination of the dirty secrets of power, to the waste of billions of people's money, to the bargains, to corruption schemes. We are ready to participate in real judicial reform and modernization of the country. The European report on the rule of law from yesterday is another exposing document by the European Commission, which has severely criticised the state of the judiciary and the uncontrolled power of the Prosecutor General. In whose hands, if not ours, the 46th National Assembly, is the responsibility to create the environment for a real judicial reform that will ensure the European standard of rule of law at last, after 13 years of membership in the European Union?! Today we also submit the request for a hearing of the ministers of justice and of the Ministry of Interior on the occasion of the request for the removal of the Prosecutor General. Today, we are submitting another draft decision on the establishment of a Police Violence Investigation Committee on Protestant citizens and on the investigation of opposition eavesdroppings, civil society activists, journalists, the people of the protests. We come to get to the darkest corners of this disgrace as is illegal wiretap, police violence, abuse of power in relation to protesting Bulgarian citizens, opposition. We're going to show the public what happened, and we're going to insist that the guilty be held accountable. Today we are also importing a pension recalculation bill because 42% of our mothers and fathers live below the poverty line, living in poverty with pensions that have not been indexed in the last 13 years. I merely recall that there was a consensus in the 45th National Assembly between all parliamentary forces to recalculate pensions. Hopefully, in this House today, no one will turn away from what they say. We are ready to present our plan for immediate support to ordinary citizens, businesses and together to secure the funds, to secure the money for it. They should not and should not always be in the drawer of one, but should reach the Bulgarian citizens, should reach the Bulgarian families, to the households, to the table of every Bulgarian, to the small and family companies that create work for millions of Bulgarians. We have prepared more than 20 bills for personal assistance, private bankruptcy, collectors' companies, CSIs, for removing the counters, for supporting small and family businesses, for supporting families, children and vulnerable groups. We are ready for a dialogue to support these bills and the agenda of Bulgarian citizens. We are ready to defend European values, the European standard of living, the Euro-Atlantic partnership, which for us is a matter of patriotism and protection of national interest. We will make every effort to implement the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and the green transition in the interests of each individual citizen, small and medium-sized companies, start-up companies, family farms, self-insuring persons, innovation and modernisation of the country, digital and green economy. The change, gentlemen and honourable ladies, is irreversible, but it is irreversible if we are united. If we are not, we will allow the fate of Bulgaria to be determined again by those who failed in the management by GERB or by DPS. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Search": "Search!"]] Let it be known that as soon as someone is confused that we are here for a realistic format, that we are here for a social experiment with the Bulgarian citizens, that we are here for a Facebook democracy or for the TVvision does the power and for thin party bills or other forms of replacement and party engineering, we will go out to the squares and protest as we have done so far. [[Heckling]] We are ready to besiege every politician of the status quo who has allowed himself to push the country into new and new elections to fish in muddy water to bend his hands to make thin party bills and to suggest that it is up to him to the fate of the government. This also applies to those who rub their hands in dreams of the golden finger, gold bars, the golden age, and the golden fleece at the same time. No more bars, dears, no more bars! The drawer's gone, the drawer's gone, and the people are watching and punishing every guy in the election who owns a drawer of bars, with a gun and a stack of money stolen from the people. We come from the comfort of the street, as a former minister has said, who is already over the board of history, and we will be on the street with people if their agenda shifts from the focus of attention and care in this Parliament. The need to be more humble in our party ambitions and more plucked in our behaviour in the Chamber is ripen if we really want to create an environment for the Unity makes the force. Here at the temple of democracy, let us thank our compatriots for their trust, patience, their faith in the parliamentary republic and promise them that this time we will not force them to go to elections for a third time within a year, that we will take responsibility for a good and fair governance and responsibility if this government misleads them. Then stand up BG! We're coming!...we're going to stand on the only right country....the country of Bulgarian citizens. Long live the people of Bulgaria! [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Thank you for reminding the MPs what it says on the front of this building. I would like to call you ladies and gentlemen once again: let us be those intelligent and smart people that the Bulgarian people chose, and let us not turn the National Assembly into some form of scandal. I hope that each of us will suppress our emotions and work for Bulgaria and the Bulgarians. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we must proceed to the business of our work. Honourable Members of Parliament, we are about to elect the President of Parliament, but before we do so, we will have to confirm the procedure in which he is elected. National Representatives Victoria Vasileva, Alexander Nenkov, Christian Vigenin, Tsetska Bacheva, Yordan Tsonev and Maria Kapon have submitted a similar decision. I ask the importers to propose the decision on a procedure for the election of the President of Parliament. Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules for the election of a President At the 46th National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure for the election of the President of the 46th National Assembly as follows: 1. Candidates for President of the National Assembly may be offered by the parties and coalitions represented in the National Assembly registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the elections on 11 July 2021 and by MPs. 2. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system unless the National Assembly decides otherwise and alphabetically of the proposed nominations. 3. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs has been elected. If, in the first vote, none of the candidates receives the necessary majority, a second vote shall be cast in which the two candidates who have received the most votes. The candidate who received more votes has been selected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, ladies and gentlemen. Does anyone want to take into account the proposed draft decision? I'm waiting for five more seconds, and I'm putting an end to this debate. Clearly, there is no desire to debate. Members of Parliament have done very well with the draft decision, which is why I am putting it to the vote. Vote 231 MPs: for 231, against and abstention there is no. Congratulations! The draft decision shall be adopted. We proceed to the election as President of the National Assembly on the rules so voted. I give the floor for proposals for the chair of the 46th National Assembly. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u20	We of "There is such a people" are proposing as President of the National Assembly Iva Miteva. You know her very well. I'll follow the procedure and say a few words about her. Eva Miteva was born in Razgrad. She graduated from the University of Sofia. Kliment Ohridski. He's a doctorate in constitutional law. She started her professional internship in 1998 at the Ministry of Justice and has been appointed to the National Assembly since 2000. She has gone through all the steps in the parliamentary administration from a state expert to Director of the Directorate of Employment and Law of the European Union and has been a member of the expert teams for preparation of proposals, discussing changes in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Since 2007, he has been actively involved in drafting amendments to electoral laws, being a member of expert teams for drafting a draft Election Code and adopting a new Election Code. He is a lecturer at New Bulgarian University, Department of Law, Course of Practice Normality and in 2017, 2018 and 2019 he is also lecturer in practical normity in the postgraduate qualification program at the Institute for Public Administration and Sofia University. Eva, as we all know, was also chairman of the 45th National Assembly. We believe that she may be the most worthy chairman of this National Assembly as well. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN, DB and ISBGN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u21	Thank you. Are there any other suggestions? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u22	On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we are proposing as Chairman of the 46th National Assembly, Christian Vigenin. He was born on 12 June 1975 in Sofia. He graduated from International Relations and Macroeconomics at the University of National and World Economy. He is also the President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and Vice-President of Parliament in the 44th National Assembly. In the 45th National Assembly again took up the post of Vice-President. Prior to that, Christian was a Member of the European Parliament 2007, 2013 and Minister of Foreign Affairs 2013, he was Vice President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. A family man with two sons. Christian has proved in the years that he can seek and agree in difficult situations, and that is the kind of person that is needed at the head of the 46th National Assembly, because it is our common responsibility to restore the confidence of citizens and the capacity of parliament to work effectively together and to solve people's problems. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, since there is more than one proposal, I am opening the debate. Is there anyone who can comment on such suggestions? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I'm closing the debate. I would just like to inform you that the vote for President of the Forty-Sixth Parliament will take place in alphabetical order, and in first names. First we'll vote for Mrs. Eva Miteva. They voted 237 MPs: 137 against 1, abstention 99. [[Applause from ICN, DB and ISBGN.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must also vote on the second proposal for Mr Christian Vigenin. [[National Representative Georgi Kadiev wants the floor.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u24	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u25	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u26	My fellow Members, as I am the only MP who voted negatively, I would like to explain the negative vote. This explanation is in no way personal and against Mrs Miteva, with whom all former MPs have worked and we know her qualities. This explanation is about the lack of talks between political parties, which led to this vote. This vote is a test of the government's vote. The Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian society told us two things in these elections: first, remove the current government and, secondly, do it together. The lack of talks between the political parties, between such a people, which should take the initiative, between the other parties, and I, as a representative of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria, can say that this lack will lead to the failure of this parliament as well. This responsibility is entirely to the.There is such a people. They are the winners, they must take the initiative. The lack of speaking will lead to the return of GERB to power. None of us voted for this thing. Dear colleagues, the passage of dividing lines of the status quo and antistatuity is not correct. There are no parties on the status quo, there are people on the status quo. There are no corrupt parties, there are corrupt people and there are corrupt politicians. I know people both from GERB and from DPS and from any other political party that are not corrupt, and I know people who are corrupt in my opinion, and I wouldn't share them in any way. I know people who are antiquated now, but they voted for Peevsky. I didn't vote for Peevsky, but I'm from the status quo. I know people who two months ago were going to be our coalition partners and today would be status quo, but because they didn't, they're not status quo today. What changed in two months in these people? Nothing. They stayed the same people. And for me, passing this line on to the status quo, the antistatuity, in a party principle is absolutely wrong and will lead to the failure of this parliament, once again I say, and to the possible return of GERB to power. So what we need to do is to start negotiations -- official, ending with a signed agreement. If it wasn't for Slavi Trifonov's press conference when he introduced Nikolay Vassilev's government, we would never have known that the Bulgarian Development Bank would be privatized because it was not in any programme. If it wasn't for this press conference, we never would have known they were gonna conceit highways because it's not in anyone's program. If it wasn't for Nikolay Vassilev's press conference, we would never know that taxes would be reduced because it wasn't in anyone's program. That is why there is a sense of negotiation, and that is why there is a sense of a signed agreement so that there are no improvisations, no surprises, and to know what is to come. Even when we sign a simple cable contract or a phone operator, we sign a contract. You want us to give carte blanche to a government that will spend 55 billion every year. lv. a spending part of the budget without knowing what we're actually signing. That's not gonna happen! This is also the reason why our parliamentary group today did not support Mrs. Iva Miteva because there were no talks, and this will be the reason why we will not support your future proposal for a government because there are no talks. And that's why I want to call you for the last time, it's your responsibility: start talking, start looking for a way to talk. We are absolutely open and you know that we have always tried to do this only and only not have to go to the third elections and not have to bring the previous rulers back to power, which no one really wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Now let's proceed to the vote for the election of the President of the National Assembly Mr. Christian Vigenin. Vote 232 MPs: 35, against 60, abstention 137. Since Mrs. Iva Miteva has more than half the votes for the meeting, she is the next chairman of the 46th National Assembly, and I gladly give her the seat. [[Applause from ICN, DB and ISBGN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u28	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable members of the Constitutional Court, your excellences, honourable representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, honourable representatives of the judicial authorities, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen! On July 12, it was 30 years since the adoption of the Bulgarian Constitution, according to which Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary rule. The National Assembly occupies a paramount position in the state system and as a national representative body expressing the will of the people, determines the government's main policies in all spheres of public life. The National Assembly not only legislates, but also exercises parliamentary control and thus implements parliamentaryism. A strong parliament means direct treatment with the people, means a constant demand for responsibility from the members of the Council of Ministers to be more careful in their actions. Remaining faithful to the universal values of freedom, equality, justice, tolerance, we must make efforts in order to implement the rule of law with a content of law, legal certainty, a ban on the arbitrariness of the executive power, independent and effective judicial control, respect for fundamental human rights, equality before the law. Under the Constitution, we MPs act in accordance with our conscience and beliefs, but we must remember what we are elected for, we must hear and follow the will of the people, think and speak as MPs, because this requires true parliamentaryism. And most importantly, we must never forget where we came from. Each of us during the election campaign has staked our name in order to gain people's trust, and that is why we must fulfil the commitments made to the Bulgarian citizens through the adoption of specific legislation - legislation for a higher standard of living, legislation for better health care, legislation for better education, legislation for achieving real judicial reform. On April 14, 1879, the words of Antim I sounded in the Constitutional Assembly: The meeting was like a ship exposed to storms, but it reached the port safely. We have adopted laws from the people for the people. I believe that in this Parliament we will adopt laws by which all Bulgarian citizens can live dignifiedly. Good wind and good luck to all of us! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u29	I wish you good luck and in four years you'll leave this chair! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u30	As required by the Constitution, we continue with the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly. Please have one of the importers present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure for the Election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly as follows: 1. The National Assembly elects six vice-presidents on one of each of the parties and coalitions represented in the National Assembly registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the elections on 11 July 2021. 2. Each party and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for Independent Participation in the Elections on 11 July 2021 shall propose its candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly. 3. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system unless the National Assembly decides otherwise and in full for all candidates. 4. The proposed candidates for Vice-Presidents were elected when they received more than half of the votes from the present Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. We're closing the debate. Please, voting mode. Vote 222 MPs: for 222, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I ask for suggestions from the relevant parties and coalitions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u33	Dear Madam President, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people" I propose as Vice-President of the National Assembly Mrs. Victoria Vasileva. Mrs. Victoria Vasileva was born in the town of Ruse. He graduated from a language high school in his home town with a profile of French, a major in foreign trade and international marketing and is a Bachelor of Civil and Corporate Security. She has worked at Kozloduy NPP, in the Media sector, in telecommunications and has long-standing experience in administration and private business. She is a MP in the Thirty-eightth National Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of the "ODS" and in the Forty-fiveth National Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of the "There is such a people." He is a member of the Committee on Energy and the Committee on External and Integration Policy and I believe he will be a worthy Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u35	Congratulations, Madam President, for your choice first! The parliamentary group of Coalition GERB-SDS proposes Ms. Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova, who was born in Vidin. He graduated from secondary school with distinctions in English Language School in his hometown. He continued his education at Veliko Tarnovo University. Master philologist and lecturer in English, with postgraduate qualification from the Technical University in Sofia He speaks in writing and speaks English, Romanian, Russian and Serbian. He's got two kids. His professional career is fully developed in the private sector. Manager with extensive management experience is in the field of production and entrepreneurship. Until April 2021, he shall be the Executive Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of several private companies. Rositsa Kirova has been three mandates municipal councillor in Vidin In the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly was the MP elected by Vidin. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u37	Madam President, congratulations on your choice from both me and our parliamentary group. We wish you success in the responsible task you have to conduct the Forty-Sixth National Assembly and, of course, personal health! Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Mr President, Madam Vice President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria and we propose Christian Ivanov Vigenin as Vice-President of the Forty-sixth National Assembly. Biographical data was presented shortly before his nomination for President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u38	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u39	Madam President, and from me heartfelt congratulations on your high trust! I hope that we will work as well and professionally from now on. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the "Democratic Bulgaria" I have the honour and personal pleasure to propose to the Vice-President of the National Assembly Atanas Atanasov. I do not think there is a need for representation, but what we are betting on is really his long-standing consistent position for the protection of Bulgarian democracy and the wisdom he is always exhibiting, and we in the coalition are standing on it. So with a really great desire and pleasure I suggest it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u40	Thank you. And stand up BG! We're coming! [[Reply from DPS.]] I'm sorry! I'm sorry, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u41	Madam President, accept the congratulations of our group and wishes for a successful mandate! Dear ministers, honourable MPs, dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, dear guests! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Vice-President of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly, we propose Mrs Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant. She graduated from Sofia University with a major in Philosophy. He has a PhD degree in Philosophy History with the right to protection. She has taken up the post of Director of Directorate at the Ministry of Education and Science, Deputy Minister of Education and Science in two governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, Vice-President of the Forty-fiveth National Assembly. A teacher by profession and a teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. And stand up BG! We're coming! Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u43	Congratulations on your choice, Mrs. Miteva. We wish you from the Parliamentary Group to stand up BG! We are coming!Successful mandate and much wisdom in the leadership of the Forty-Sixth Parliament. Our parliamentary group is proposing as Vice-President of Parliament Ms. Tatiana Doncheva, who does not need an introduction. A perfect lawyer, a proven professional with great experience, a respected parliamentarians. We saw it in the forty-fiveth Parliament in action and we are sure that it will bring Parliament out of all complex situations and will contribute to restoring its authority and trust among Bulgarian citizens. So our proposal is Mrs. Doncheva. We are going to see it in action in this Parliament as well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. All the proposals have been made. In accordance with the rules of procedure adopted, please complete voting arrangements. Vote 227 MPs: for 227, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I ask the Vice-Presidents to take their seats. A draft decision on the implementation of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly has been put in place. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u45	Project! DECISION on the implementation of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The forty-sixth National Assembly shall carry out its work under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly until the adoption of its Rules, unless it decides otherwise. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u46	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. We're closing the debate. Please vote on the decision so read. Vote 216 MPs: 216, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next draft decision to elect secretaries at the Forty-Sixth National Assembly. I'd like one of the importers to present the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u47	Project! DECISION for the election of Secretaries of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He elected 12 secretaries of the National Assembly by two of each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for independent participation in the elections on 11 July 2021. 2. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system unless the National Assembly decides otherwise and in full for all candidates. 3. He elected as Secretaries of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor on the Project Decision. There aren't any. Voting regime for the proposed draft decision. Vote 218 MPs: for 218 against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I ask for suggestions from the parties and coalitions. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u49	On behalf of the parliamentary group there is such a people for parliamentary secretaries we propose: Kiril Sashev Simeonov and Petar Hristov Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. By GERB-SDS "Mr. Nenkov."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on behalf of GERB-SDS we offer as secretaries of the National Assembly Manoil Manev and Hristo Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u52	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u53	Thank you, Madam President. We offer Philip Popov and Stoyan Mirchev from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u54	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u55	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we offer the MPs Alexandra Krasimirova Sterkova and Petar Yassenov Marinov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u56	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u57	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we are proposing Sezgin Mehmed and Pavlin Krastev for Parliamentary Secretaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u58	Thank you. And you're gonna stand up for yourself?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u59	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, stand up BG! I propose Svetoslav Kolev and Julian Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-21.u60	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposals made for the Secretaries of the National Assembly. Vote 208 MPs: for 208, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I will now read you the registrations of the parliamentary groups. An application was received from the parliamentary group of the MPs elected with the list of coalition BSP for Bulgaria. The name of the parliamentary group is: the parliamentary group "BSP" for Bulgaria. He elected Cornelia Petrova Ninova as the chairman of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. He selected a leadership of the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" in the composition: Georgi Stratilov Svilenski Vice-President, Hristo Tanchev Prodanov Vice-President, Atanas Zafirov Zafirov Vice-President, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov "Vigenin" Vice-President, Irena Todorova Anastasova Secretary, Filip Stefanov Popov Secretary. There is such a people. The leadership of the parliamentary group of "Imamam such a people" is composed of: Chairman of the parliamentary group Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov, Vice-President of the parliamentary group of the "Imamam such a people" "Victoria Ivanova Vasileva," Vice-President Ivaylo Vanev Valchev, Vice-President Philip Marinov Stanev, Secretary Ivo Georgiev Atanasov. Application received by GERB-SDS. The name of the parliamentary group is GERB-SDS. Composition: Chairman Desislava Valcheva Atanasov, Vice-Presidents Alexander Rumenov Nenkov, Rumen Dimitrov Hristov, Thomas Lubomirov Bikov, Secretary Evgenia Biserova Alexieva. An application for registration of a parliamentary group has been made. The leadership of the parliamentary group: Chairman: Mustafa Sali Karadayi, Vice-President Yordan Tsonev, Vice-President Halil Letifov, Vice-President Hamid Hamid, and Secretary Adlen Shevked. There has also been an application for registration of a parliamentary group of "Democratic Bulgaria" with Chairman Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov, three vice-presidents Vladislav Panchev Panev, Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova, Tsetska Georgieva Bachkova. An application has been made for the formation of a parliamentary group. We are coming with the leadership of the parliamentary group: Chairman Maya Bozidarova Manolova, Vice-President Nikolay Dimitrov Hadzhigenov, Secretarys Dimitar Andreev Delchev and Danail Valeriev Georgiev. With this, according to the Constitution, the agenda is exhausted. Before I close the meeting, I would like to invite all MPs for a general picture of the stairs at the official entrance of parliament. I am announcing a next meeting tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. as the programme for tomorrow's meeting, I propose that it be decided by agreement with the Conference of Presidents, for which I ask the members of the Conference of Presidents to gather in half an hour. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
