ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, the first point for today is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF THE EXECUTIVE POSITION NOTIFICED BY THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF 13 MARCH 2020 AND FOR THE TRANSFER OF THE CONCESSIONS. Importers are Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 15 January 2021. The Committee on Legal Affairs report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you go. Here you go, guys. Come on in. [[The MPs from the parliamentary groups of BSP for Bulgaria and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.]] Cheer up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences, No 154-01-3, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 15 January 2021. At its meeting held on 20 January 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-3, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 15 January 2021. The bill was presented by Mr. Tzipov, who pointed out that the upcoming elections in 2021 in the Republic of Bulgaria require that measures relating to the electoral process be envisaged to enable each voter to vote strictly in compliance with the anti-epidemic measures. With the proposed provision of art. 28 which is set up in the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, is entrusted to the Central Election Commission to organise the electoral process in a manner that will not deprive any citizen of selective rights and allow voters to exercise their right to vote under the conditions of the epidemic situation, including voters placed under compulsory quarantine or compulsory isolation under the Health Act. Mr. Tzipov pointed out that the vote of voters placed under mandatory quarantine or compulsory isolation is proposed to take place by means of a mobile electoral box or at separate polling stations, outside the sections of art. 9 of the Election Code defined by the Central Election Commission. The arrangements for voting these voters must be laid down in the rules adopted by the Central Election Commission in order to respond to the epidemiological situation. In the rules, the Central Election Commission will have to determine in the safest way for all participants in the electoral process the formation of sections, the submission of applications, including electronically via the website of the Central Election Commission or the municipality concerned or at a free telephone number, the voting list and voting on the election day. In order to reduce the crowding of many people, we propose the number of members of the sectional election committees for the sections of art. 28, para. The first sentence shall not be less than three appointed subject to the requirements of the Election Code. It is envisaged that the number of members of a selection election commission outside the country may be no less than three at the discretion of the Central Election Commission, depending on the epidemiological situation, the restrictive measures in the country concerned and other circumstances related to the workload in the electoral process. He noted that the Central Election Commission is proposed to adopt the rules after consultations with the National Operational Headquarters, the National Vaccine Headquarters and the Public Council of the Commission, publicly announcing the results of their implementation. It is proposed that the rules adopted may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with art. 58 of the Election Code. Mr. Tzipov added that § 2 of the Draft Law suggests that voters whose period of the identity document expired after 13 March 2020, including the extended period, may be identified by this document before the sectary electoral commission when elections are held during an exceptional epidemic situation. In these cases it is intended not to require a certificate under art. 263 of the Election Code. People's representatives Filip Popov, Christian Mitev, Krasimir Tsipov, Alexander Ivanov, Yavor Bojankov, Hamid Hamid and Krum Zarkov took part in the discussion. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) they said they would not support the bill because they believe that it confers no powers for the activities of the Central Election Commission. MPs Hamid Hamid and Christian Mitev expressed their support for the bill and noted that between the first and second votes certain provisions will be refined. The President of the Commission presented to the Members of the National Assembly the opinion of the Central Election Commission on the Bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour of and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-3, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 15 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Tsipov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The challenge we face to hold a vote on the next parliament under pandemic conditions is the main objective of this bill. Before we prepared this bill, we did a study on how different types of elections took place in the countries last year, where such types of elections needed to be held. We have studied the experience of many countries such as France, South Korea, Romania, Lithuania, Serbia, Georgia, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Poland. This experience shows that the relevant legislative changes are responsible for the central electoral bodies to give the main legislative framework how to conduct the relevant types of elections in a pandemic environment. In all these countries, the central electoral authorities have taken the necessary steps to ensure the vote of voters regardless of their health status. In most cases, this has happened with rules to determine the appropriate anti-epidemic measures any organisation of movement in the respective electoral premises, where to place the polling stations and how to respect the social distance between voters. We propose that in the forthcoming elections in 2021, measures relating to the electoral process be envisaged to ensure that each voter is able to vote with strict respect for anti-epidemic measures. Our proposal is made in the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. With these proposals, we ask the Central Election Commission to organise the electoral process in such a way that no Bulgarian citizen is deprived of the right to exercise his vote, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to create the minimum necessary conditions for this electoral process to take place. We mainly propose that the vote of the voters who are placed under mandatory quarantine and compulsory isolation be done through mobile electoral boxes or in separate polling stations outside those referred to in art. 9 of the Election Code. In the legislative framework to be laid down in relation to the proper conduct of the electoral process, we believe that the Central Election Commission should take into account all the restrictions imposed by the exceptional epidemic situation. In the discussion held in the Legal Commission and the opinions expressed in relation to this bill, many speculations were made that the Central Election Commission was entrusted with something not inherent to its legal functions, namely, that it should hardly determine in its capacity, notice, all anti-epidemic measures. I would like to strongly state that this was not the purpose of the importers, as it is clear that the medical protocol will be given by the competent health authorities, but the Central Election Commission is the body dealing with the overall organisation of the electoral process, honourable Members. There is no way to exclude it from defining the framework in which elections must be produced under possible normal conditions in a state of emergency epidemic environment. I believe that today's debate must clarify all these important issues so that we can reach the possible consensus on what each competent authority must do in order to have a normal process of election. Madam President, I will not dwell on the other issues mentioned in the Bill. I'll reserve the right to make a statement. The important thing is here, honourable Members, to see how in these difficult conditions and challenges we face, to create such a legislative framework that will allow every Bulgarian citizen who wishes to exercise his right to vote to do so safely in some, as far as possible, normal conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, we agree on the subject that people who are quarantined in Bulgaria because of the coronavirus should be given the opportunity to exercise one of their fundamental constitutional rights in the upcoming parliamentary elections. So written, however, the Bill, I think it asks more questions and creates more chaos than solving this problem. First of all, more with § 1 in art. 28 shall be set up and appointed to the Central Election Commission unqualified for it. The Central Election Commission and the Election Code have several main powers, one of which is to monitor compliance with the Election Code and issue methodological guidelines to the respective regional and sectional election committees. The CEC is not a health care body. The CEC cannot issue a medical protocol, as is said here for compliance with anti-epidemic measures. The health authorities, the Ministry of Health, these are the competent authorities that should and could issue this medical protocol and the CEC should apply it by applying it to its methodological guidelines, but not to the CEC being responsible. In the Central Election Commission, there is not a single medical officer, honourable MPs. They do not have this expertise to prepare and be responsible for this medical protocol. Once again there is a transfer of responsibility from the executive power, from the Council of Ministers, just as it did with the engine vote, which is why the former president of the Central Election Commission resigned. The CEC is burdened with non-proportionary duties. The entire responsibility is transferred to the CEC. The executive power, the Council of Ministers, the health authorities in this case simply have one advisory voice, sit on the side and observe the responsibility is for the CEC. In addition, so recorded the amendment in art. 28, it is clearly stated that when the elections were produced in 2021. During an extraordinary epidemic situation, the CEC adopted the rules on the organisation and order of elections to ensure the life and health of the participants in the elections. Written in this way, the text is interpreted very expansively because the CEC should issue any rules in practice to ensure life and health not only medically. In my opinion, you should make, honourable importers, a correction between first and second readings, if this bill continues at second reading, because it creates quite a ambiguity. Next, you once again place the responsibility of the Central Election Commission because you have recorded that the quarantined in Bulgaria are voting either with a mobile electoral box or in separate polling stations. Once again, the Central Election Commission is given the decision to actually finish the Law because they have to decide what these separate polling stations are. In the Election Code it is written which polling stations are. Now the CEC must set up separate polling stations, finish the Law, and the CEC's decisions, you know, can be appealed to the Supreme Court. And one such decision, if you appeal before the Supreme Court, which practically adds to your law, I think it won't hold up in court, which practically sabotages and places very heavy bombs in the upcoming elections. Next, you have written that these sections are the ones that are the ones that are separate, but no one knows what these separate sections are, how they will be drawn up again, the CEC should rule on this issue, once again be responsible. The members of these sections may be no less than three, but subject to the requirements of the Election Code. There is no way to comply with the requirements of the Election Code, there is no way to respect representation by both the Central Election Commission and the Parliamentary Committee with so many parties in the National Assembly, with three representatives! Once again, there will be parliamentary forces that will not be represented in these sections. How exactly is this going to be determined, again the CEC should decide There are many ambiguities in this bill, and I think that this is how it was written, especially in a law not under the Election Code, but in the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, it creates more problems than solutions in relation to the upcoming elections and voting, of course, of those who are put under quarantine. And another problem, because this law does not comply with any deadlines at all. A problem that may arise.. how will those who are quarantined prove that they are quarantined? In RZI's, in the lists that RZI's run, there's just some names. Where does the Central Election Commission, the person who's gonna file an application eventually, if he gets sick on the 3rd, say, how is this guy gonna guarantee and prove that he's quarantined? How is he going to prove it when the RZI certificate in many cases occurs a few days after the person is quarantined? [[(Reply:) The RZI has it.]] There's no RZI. RZI told you what happened. Come and give me a cue, not from where I'm standing. So you're creating much bigger problems than you're trying to solve. There are a lot of ambiguities in this bill, a lot of confusion, a lot of chaos. That's what you're trying to do. It is practically a sabotage of the upcoming parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to say something that no one notices and nobody pays attention to. The main danger in choosing the date for election day, the main danger is known that the biggest disease occurs when the room is closed. Several people are present in the situation. One infected, two infected carriers of the virus and they're all infected. On 4 April, the weather is cold and you cannot provide the main condition of the permanent ventilation of the premises, which will eliminate the main danger. I mean, the responsibility that after the election will slide the disease up, I'm confident of that, carries the president and his team, which he hasn't judged. A date had to be set for these rooms to stand with open windows, with open doors, so that they could be ventilated. This is the most important condition, only no one pays attention to it. For the President, he will bear his moral responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u9	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Shopov, a statement? Here you go. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u10	Honourable Members, one of the problems that is not noticed in law and this is always a very important question: where they are settled, in which law, relevant problems and issues. Where they vote, they score, they follow, they follow the rules. And if there were more lawyers here in this National Assembly, not to mention in the leadership of the National Assembly, it would be an impression that the rules are settled not where they should be. These rules must be settled in the Election Law, not, as is done in this case, in the Emergency Act. It's not a coincidence. We're talking here about the lex specialis, lex specialis, the election code. And why is this being done? Because if these rules are proposed to be changed to the Election Code, the Election Code will be inserted, it will be proposed to him and many other rules that are awkward for the government. They do not want things to be settled in the Election Code because it unleashes a very big debate. This unleashes the debate on the dead souls of 600 thousand. Souls, as we at Ataka said, named it, and this was perceived by both the President as a problem and by society. If these rules are put in place to be governed by the Election Code, the question of the total forgery of the elections, which has been taking place for many years, will be put before society. If this problem is put in place to be resolved in the Election Code, the question of video surveillance in the polls will be inserted, which we at Ataka are talking about for many years. Because I doubt at this point, despite requests that machine voting machines are being provided, I am very dubious about whether or not there will be a machine voting at all! And if they enter the Election Code, decisive and unambiguous measures will be put in place to have a machine vote. And I can continue this list from now on in at least ten more points for amendments to the Election Code. And that is why it is this move at the moment that things should pass with one or two provisions concerning the sanitary part, so to call it, or the medical one, in view of the pandemic, but what is being proposed cannot, in this law, in the Emergency Act, solve the infinitely many problems with which, in fact, we are late to solve the problems that lie ahead of the upcoming elections in order to make them honest and unmistakable for the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the Bill. We believe that these measures are necessary and their place is in this bill. On the other hand, we cannot ignore the concerns expressed by both BSP colleagues and in the opinion of the Central Election Commission. That is why we have said to the Legal Commission that we are going to submit our proposals, which will refine and correct these proposals. I would also like to congratulate the importers, who have already said several times that certain texts will be refined and tailored. It will not be so far as to create suggestion or create prerequisites that these texts transfer the full responsibility of the Central Election Commission. I think Mr. Tzipov was clear in his speech in that direction. Therefore, considering that the dialogue we are constantly calling for, and unfortunately, has proved to be the most scarce commodity in the entire term of this National Assembly, is extremely necessary precisely in the preparation of these measures, I propose, in a spirit of dialogue, that we refine the texts, each make his proposals and comply with the opinion of the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u13	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Nedyalkov made a statement. Would you like to speak, Mr. Nedyalkov? You raised your hand to speak. No. Mr. Turnover, are you giving up, too? Yeah. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First, I will begin by supporting what my colleague Philip Popov said, including my colleague Paul Shopov, and I will try not to repeat myself for the purpose of the processional economy of time. The electoral process, fellow Members, is a dynamic matter that is undergoing development, but I fear that with the proposed changes we are rather turning back this process and instead of progress we will get a regression. For the first time, a political responsibility is being landed instead of an administrative burden. What do I mean? Including in its opinion, the Central Election Commission points out that it wants the Council of Ministers to ensure that the electoral process and legislative measures are refined. I am afraid, fellow Members, that this is repeating itself, even more so, that it coincides with our opinion and with the opinions expressed by other political forces, even though they are not parliamentary. The other thing that concerns me is that the Central Election Commission will be advised by the National Operations Headquarters and the Ministry of Health. Here I would like to remind you that these advisors in the face of the Minister of Health during the pandemic were issuing orders which were cancelled the same or the next day. The National Operations Headquarters led a policy that was not permanent and consistent, unfortunately. When we were all convinced that there would be no pandemic, it turned out that we were living in a pandemic environment. [[GERB lines.]] Persuasion came from the Prime Minister, who, colleagues, from cow shops, from various vehicles, from stumps talked about how well the state was. In the Election Code, colleagues, as Mr. Pavel Shopov said, aside from the problem of how the quarantined and the sick will vote, there is also the one with the electoral lists and the monitoring of the elections, as the election process weighs a shadow of doubt. Why won't we support this bill? First of all, as my colleague Shopov said, it is not proposed properly, but through the Emergency Act. And here I would like you to answer one question: Do you know, are you aware that the Emergency Act will be in effect on April 4th at the date of the election? Because if you do, you should make it very clear that this emergency will not be abolished. It's not just us you can tell. You will also tell that to the representatives of the restaurant business, the tourist industry. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee. "]] Yeah, that's right. It is also right for them to know that you do not intend to repeal the Emergency Act before the elections. Do not deceive the parents of children who do not attend school. Next, there is a contradiction between the Election Code and the Emergency Act, namely: in the Election Code with mobile electoral boxes vote only people with permanent disabilities, and in the Emergency Act, this right has quarantined people who are suffering from a coronavirus. This will create an opportunity for appeal, including before the Constitutional Court, as well as an opportunity, colleagues, to cast elections in certain areas. Honourable Members, the Election Code weighs a shadow of doubt that the electoral process is being corrupted. It is up to us to the National Assembly whether we will take steps to lighten this process and whether you are ready to accept opposition demands, or if you can play only by the rules that you define. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will begin my speech with an attempt to answer some of the questions raised by the negotiators and, above all, as a kind of answer to those asked. There were politicians who were extremely irresponsible to the epidemic in the last 2020. I remember that another March last year, when the government took the first measures to limit the virus, there were other politicians who said that there were two types of strained one in Sofia, one in Veliko Tarnovo. There were responsible politicians who literally until September refused to admit that there was an epidemic in Bulgaria. You're right, but they're not in the Council of Ministers, they're elsewhere. So let everyone be responsible for their actions. Why are the proposals we have made really in the Emergency Act? What are the odds that the epidemic situation will be over by then? I would be very happy if the epidemic situation is normalized, i.e. the health situation is normalized in Bulgaria by March and not only in Bulgaria, but around the world. But I have not seen any country in Europe or in the developed world that says that the situation will normalise at least by the end of the year. I sincerely hope that there will be no epidemic by April. Then I'll go out and say it's my fault we're offering it there. But we doubt he'll be out by then. By listening to the speeches of both the health minister and the health authorities united in the expertise of all our leading health professionals, it is precisely the epidemiological situation to be extended until the end of April. Most likely, unfortunately, perhaps the next government will continue to extend. We'll see. I really hope that, as vaccines progress and the measures are being taken, things will improve, so that there will not have to be measures for a whole year, but there will certainly be during the elections. Therefore, our proposals in this regard are made in this law and not in the Election Code, because they concern precisely the conduct of elections in an epidemic. Because otherwise in any normal environment, it was 2019, because of infectious disease, quarantined has always been. Usually in the spring, the wave of smallpox that strikes the students, and some of the parents who didn't drive it are back in quarantine for 40 days. So quarantines are always in the country. The point is, they're not so massive. That's why it's all in this law, not someone else's. Now one thing I understand is that BSP will not support. I think it's the only party here that won't support the measures. Yesterday I read the bill submitted by the BSP to change the Election Code, but there I did not see how you solved the issue of voting quarantined. Or maybe BSP is lying to the public about wanting high turnout, and at the same time wants to limit people who are under quarantine to vote. Tell me what your proposals are if you do not accept to have such sections if you do not want to have the possibility of quarantined votes? How do you see those quarantined to vote? I really want to hear that answer. It should be noted, however, that here many of the proposals that have been made after consultations with the President, I see, are not supported by any party present. We will see during the debates on the bill tabled by the BSP so that I do not mix the topics, and then I will tell myself the reasons why I would not support what you have proposed. But there is one other thing that we must observe very closely. Portugal is currently one of the countries with the strongest measures in the Lockdown of Western Europe. Portugal is also currently a country president of the European Council. Apart from Portugal, there are presidential elections this Sunday. Do you know how in Portugal they solve the issue exactly with people who are quarantined, who are currently over 125 thousand people? It is in this way that the mobile sections organized by the local authorities are circling. Yes, they have a fundamental difference that can be considered between readings that there is an early vote. 48 hours before the vote date, people are given the opportunity to vote in these mobile sections so that they can vote as calmly as possible. So the issue of mobile sections is very important so that those of our countrymen who are under quarantine can really exercise their right to vote. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Instead of yelling at me from the hall, come and tell me what you're offering so that they can guarantee! [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Come and say a line so we can still have some kind of debate. And finally, a question was asked: who quarantines the sick? What will the people who are quarantined just before the elections do? Well, the quarantine is required by RZI and automatically enters its system. After all, we live in the 21st century. There's some kind of e-government. Don't use your phones just to access social media. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, thank you for coming to answer some questions, although most of the time, when my colleagues were talking, you were shouting from your place and maybe you didn't hear them, and that's why you couldn't answer correctly. Let me set them more clearly so you can answer in the back. You have committed yourself to society, to the president and to everyone that you will bring a solution to two problems: how people will vote in the situation we are in. How will people who are healthy vote so they don't get infected? And how are people going to vote in quarantine? In this line of thought, I ask you: reading your bill, please tell us clearly, precisely and categorically what will be the health protocol for people who are healthy and will vote? How exactly are they going to vote? Second question: how will they vote quarantined according to your law with a mobile section or in a separate polling section? Is there an answer to these questions in your law?! Third, in the case of a collision between this law and the Election Code, who do you think will apply? Which Law will be applied because it is written here that with mobile voting boxes will be voted within the meaning of Chapter fourteen of the Election Code, where there are certain deadlines that will prove not applicable to this thing. Who do you think is the law in this case that will be applied? What we are doing, because you asked us, we tabled an amendment to the Election Code, where perhaps these amendments should also be considered. You have also committed yourself after the opinion of the Central Election Commission to improving this law that you have committed to adopting. But the truth, Mr. Gajev, I hope your colleagues will help you understand and explain it, is that with this law you do absolutely nothing. After him, the same problems remain the same as before him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u19	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u20	So don't blame us for fooling anyone. You're deluding yourself. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u21	Second line? I won't. Mr. Gazhev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I am neither a health professional nor a doctor, but even without being a doctor, I can tell you quite calmly on the basis of what we may all know There's no way the polls can be mixed even because once they're in the coffin, there's no way they can go back to the healthy people who are placed in the hospital area. And that's why there are two separate ones for which they are in isolation and for those who are in the rest of the hospital. You just shouldn't mix the two streams. And these are health measures that are applied in hospitals, and that comes from health authorities. In this regard, your first question about the health protocol has, as I said in my exposé, health authorities, which determine the different measures needed to be implemented, and the health protocol, which is agreed with the Central Election Commission. In this case, it is impossible for the two institutions, whether it be the health authorities or the Central Election Commission, to work separately. Of course, they have to work in sync to issue the maximum quality instructions for holding the elections. There's no way the two things could be different. By the way, we are committed to other institutions... We have made a commitment to the Bulgarian citizens to decide how they will vote, not to other institutions, to support the options so that they can... Whether the text is perfect is a question of debate. And whether there is a need for changes. Of course, it is always possible to improve a text and a bill within the debate. We have done it for many years, this is actually the role of Parliament to improve between first and second reading the various bills. As for what we propose, I keep not hearing what you propose to solve the problem. Since we don't solve the problem, how do you solve it? It's okay. You're not saying anything. I mean, you don't have a solution, but you criticize other people's decision. It's the easiest thing to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To our attention is a bill relating to amending the Emergency Act, but what we will see and hear every day from the spokespersons of the Central Election Commission is that at the moment no changes can be made to the Election Code in order to regulate normally the voting process of every Bulgarian citizen who is entitled to it under the Constitution. It is no coincidence that the position of the Central Election Commission on which I did not hear your comments. Because the Central Election Commission categorically states that in the Health Act, and that we have adopted it, the competent authority that issues and adopts the rules for guaranteeing the life and health of voters is the Minister of Health. And in this regard, there is no way that at the moment, with the proposed bill that you are submitting, we can load the Central Election Commission with these non-functional functions. This is the opinion of the Central Election Commission, and I have not heard the answer to this question why you believe that the Central Election Commission is the competent authority after in the Election Code in art. 57 specifically mentioned all the powers of the Central Election Commission? I will only say two things that relate to their activities, and it is that the Central Election Commission exercises control over the implementation of the Code. Where in the Election Code are we currently auditing the rules relating to quarantined persons and those who are ill have the right to vote with mobile election boxes? It is no coincidence that the President of the Central Election Commission in his media statements said that a revision of the Election Code should be made in this part. If we respect art. 37 of the Election Code where the order for voting applications for disabled voters with a mobile electoral box is regulated, we will see that there are certain deadlines for such mobile polling stations to be established. And it is no accident that the Central Election Commission in its opinion will read it, saying that it is important to provide clear criteria for the inclusion of this category of voters, namely the quarantined persons, on the voting lists with a mobile electoral box. Article 37 of the Election Code categorically states that those persons who will vote with a mobile electoral box are deleted from the voting lists. What do we do in this case when individuals found infected and quarantined are deleted from the lists because the RGI has determined that they are not allowed to vote in normal sections? How and where do you and your proposed bill regulate these things? Moreover, where in this proposed bill do we give access to the relevant registers under the Health Act for the issue of the relevant certification documents? Many questions, the answers are missing. The elections are knocking on the door and I do not see, ladies and gentlemen ruling, with this, your, how can I say, prematurely in the Law on Exceptional Measures, you are putting this election back on the table again - the upcoming elections of April 4th, to be corrupted and not create such an opportunity for the Bulgarian voters to ensure their right to vote equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to bring some clarity to the proposals that we have made from our parliamentary group in the Emergency Act. The proposals we have made say that the Central Election Commission must draw up rules to guarantee both the life and health of voters and all participants in the electoral process and to have a normal environment in which everyone can come out and exercise their right to vote. The Central Election Commission will consult the National Operational Headquarters, the vaccination headquarters, the Public Council, which is with the Central Election Commission, which is currently in operation and will then be issued these rules. Certainly a protocol from the Ministry of Health, from the Minister, is issued, but this protocol and the Minister of Health is not the authority that should be responsible for the order and the rules for conducting the elections. This is the competent independent body of the Central Election Commission. And at the moment elections are being produced during an epidemic situation in the country, and at the moment a protocol is being drawn up and issued by the Minister of Health, so I do not see what the problem is at the moment. We do not transfer medical activities to the Central Election Commission. After all, this is the body that monitors, as I said, the order and rules for holding these elections. I think it is necessary to create a good organisation, to create some good rules so that there can be a broad explanatory campaign that allows people to be calm and able to go vote in this emergency situation, not to strain some tension and to suggest all sorts of manipulations in the people of this tribune and everywhere that elections will be vitiated. This will in no way lead to high turnout and this will in no way restore people's trust in the electoral process. I think that the debate that we politicians have to have is that we need to present our programmes, our policies, our priorities, so that we can really persuade citizens to vote for us, and not lower the debate that you are currently trying to make in this House. And given that we also allow quarantined to vote with mobile sections or sections that are formed in hospitals outside those under art. 9 in the Election Code, I think this really speaks of a desire on our part for more people to be able to exercise their right to vote and not restrict them, just to say that we want higher turnout. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u27	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. - What's the line? Mr. Popov has a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Alexieva, I will also ask you on the question that Krum Zarkov asked the colleague to whom he never replied: in the event of a contradiction between the Election Code and the one you wrote, which law will be applied? Because there are such contradictions already created under this bill of yours. Secondly, isn't it more regular in the Election Code if you had created a chapter?Producing elections in an emergency situation?? and so on, and down to describe what you think is right and suggest and to debate where it belongs, exactly in the Election Code? You said you wanted to make your proposals clear. You have practically repeated our thesis that it is not the Central Election Commission that should issue this medical protocol. Yes, the Central Election Commission should apply it in its methodological guidelines, but the authority to issue it is not the Central Election Commission. Because it is written in this law, you have written that the Central Election Commission has issued rules to ensure the life and health of the participants in the elections when elections are held in an emergency epidemiological situation. Thus written in your bill means that the Central Election Commission can actually implement and should adopt not only medical protocol but also anti-terromatic rules to guarantee people's lives and health. Because life and health, even though we are in an epidemiological situation, can be threatened by many factors, not just by a coronavirus, by many factors. And the Central Election Commission should comply with all these rules in order to ensure the lives and health of the participants in the elections. That's just how you wrote it down. And that should also be refined, I think. But this isn't the place. And a few of your lawyers told you this wasn't the place. I don't know why you put him in the Emergency Act. Yes, it is about measures that take place in a state of emergency elections, but there could have been a head of reference in the Election Code where all these proposals could be discussed. I know what you're afraid of, that when you put it into the Election Code, each of the parliamentary groups will accordingly make their proposals under the electoral legislation, and there was no time for that. There's time. We have therefore made our proposals, we have made them back in time, and in terms of video surveillance, clearing voter lists through active registration, the DPS also had their proposals, from all parliamentary groups. You're trying to close the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u29	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You're out of time by one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Last sentence. You're trying to close the Election Code, but you're creating this way a very big chaos and a contradiction between the laws governing this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, I do not think that in any way we affect any other law when we apply our proposals in the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation and their consequences. So what we have ultimately assessed with these proposals, and we have made sure that the CEC does come up with rules that determine the order and manner of voting of the Bulgarian voters, we did not say that the CEC issued the protocol. I've already said it in my statement. This medical protocol is issued by the Ministry of Health. When you made your proposals that were submitted yesterday to the Election Code, what I was able to read was that your proposals were only for video surveillance and for making active registration and clearing the voter lists. Where do you propose to settle the issue of voting the people under quarantine? Because I see that you already admit that there is an epidemic, you admit that there is a horse and that there is a disease. After all, I think that we should all unite, make it possible for all Bulgarian citizens to be able to exercise their right to vote. The changes you propose in the Election Code, when the time comes, we will comment on them. Because I don't think that this video surveillance, which is introduced when counting the ballots, is done so that it can protect the personality of the people involved in the electoral process, to protect the personal data of everyone who is in the electoral room, because many of you are proclaiming that these were public figures. No, these are officials, and I think there's a order and a way this thing can happen. After all, the protocol is public and representatives of all parliamentary parties participate. For active registration, I can also say, but when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u33	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-3, submitted by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 15 January 2021. We're waiting for all the coworkers to enter the room. I see there's a lot of people who want to vote. Mrs. Vassileva, put on your mask. She has such a Mr. Simeonov's watch. Have all the colleagues been able to vote? Mr. Stankov has a problem with the vote. We're ready. Abort the vote. Announce the result. Vote 182 MPs: 128, against 45, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. There was, first, Mrs. Angelova, then Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code by seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u35	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 169 MPs: 166 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u36	Thank you, Madam President. My wish is to do the procedure. And it relates to the fact that I propose that the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the newly adopted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 to overcome the effects of it submitted by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, be four days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Another procedure? It's a counterproposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that this bill has shown a number of weaknesses and this has been seen in the discussion. Shortening the deadline to four days I think it will not lead to the effect that we are aiming for, namely the creation of normal conditions for the voting of Bulgarian citizens in the conditions of an epidemic. That is why I am making a reverse proposal and I insist that the deadline remains as is the normal time limit for proposals for second reading and a corresponding examination of the bill if you really want to achieve the objective you are saying you are setting yourself with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. I put to the vote Mr. Tzipov's proposal to reduce the deadline to four days. Vote 162 MPs: 112 against 42, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTERATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING CODEX. The representatives of the National Assembly were Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov on 15 January 2021. Mrs. Alexandrova, would you like to introduce us to the Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the vote the admission to the plenary of Mr. Georgi Cholakov, Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u41	We're voting Mr. Cholakov's admission. 125 MPs voted: 122, none, abstention 3. Please, Mr. Cholakov to take his place in the hall. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u42	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 154-01-4, submitted by the MPs Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov on 15 January 2021. At its meeting held on 20 January 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code, No 154-01-4, submitted by the MPs Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov on 15 January 2021. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Cholakov, Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court. The bill was presented by Mrs. Alexandrova, who pointed out that the proposed amendments suggested that the process of verifying the regularity of the complaints should be entrusted to the courts of the first instance which ruled the acts to be appealed. The proposed amendment is not new for the Bulgarian justice system, as it has been functioning successfully for decades in the common courts. The proposed amendments correspond to the texts in the Civil Procedure Code which regulate the verification process for the regularity of complaints, taking into account the specifics of administrative justice. Ms. Alexandrova noted that the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code will enable the Court of First Instance to first give instructions on the findings of irregularities of the complaint, which will save the opposing parties the efforts to engage in procedural protection at this stage of the proceedings, and only after the possible removal of irregularities will the court send copies to the opposing parties to engage in defence in one already accepted for a regular complaint. The President of the Supreme Administrative Court expressed his support for the Bill, pointing out that it is timely and necessary. Members of the National Assembly Hamid Hamid, Christian Mitev, Yavor Bojankov, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov took part in the discussion. MPs Hamid Hamid and Christian Mitev expressed their support for the bill and noted that between the first and second votes certain provisions will be refined. People's representatives from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria said they would not support the bill, noting that the first instance courts will be charged with its adoption. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for. 7 votes against.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Will there be an importer's opinion? You again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u44	Yes, if I may, I'd like to make a brief presentation. With the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code in September 2018, we successfully upgraded and improved the process of administration of complaints entering the Supreme Administrative Court. In this regard, the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court were greatly relieved in the verification process for the regularity of complaints, and those duties were assigned to the alternates of the President, respectively, to the Chairs of the wards. In this way, however, the latter were burdened with a huge administrative burden preventing them from fulfilling their actual duties in the Supreme Administrative Court. With the proposed amendments, we believe that this problem is resolved and the process of verifying the regularity of the complaints is assigned to the first instance courts which have issued the acts to be appealed. This model of administration of complaints is not new for the Bulgarian justice system, and has been functioning successfully for decades in the common courts. In this sense, the proposed amendments are relevant to the texts in the Civil Procedure Code which regulate the verification process for the regularity of complaints, naturally taking into account the specifics of administrative justice. The proposed amendments also resolve a very significant problem which exists.............................................................................................................................................................................. In accordance with the current legislation, after accepting the complaint or protest, the Court of First Instance shall send a copy of it together with the annexes of the other Party which, within 14 days of receipt of the complaint, may submit a reply. Following the submission of the reply or after the expiry of the period referred to in art. 213a, para. 1 the case shall be sent to the Supreme Administrative Court where a check of the regularity of the complaint is carried out and instructions for the removal of irregularities shall be given accordingly. In the event of non-disclosure of established irregularities, the complaint shall be left without consideration. In this way, the parties to an irregular complaint shall carry out procedural protection which, at this stage of the proceedings, creates for them an unnecessary burden of both financial and logistical burden. In this sense, changes to the Administrative Procedure Code will enable the Court of First Instance, first, to give instructions on the findings of the irregularities of the complaint, which will save the opposing parties the efforts to engage in procedural protection at this stage of the proceedings. Only after the possible removal of irregularities will the court send copies to the opposing parties to engage in protection on one already accepted for a regular complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who would like to speak? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 154-01-4, submitted by Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov on 15 January 2021. Vote 96 MPs: 77 against 4, abstention 15. The bill has been passed. Congratulations, Mr. Cholakov, congratulations! That concludes the business part of today's session. Here we go: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written answers from: Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Dora Yankova, Lyubomir Bonev, Teodora Halacheva and Evdokia Asenova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; The Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; "The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Manol Genov; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Manol Genov; The Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; Mr. Kostadin Angelov, Minister of Health on a question from the MPs Kristian Vigenin, Nikolay Penev and Georgi Yordanov; "The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva; "The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jafer. I request that representatives of the parliamentary groups receive the written answers. There are no new questions or questions. We're moving on to parliamentary control. The first question is to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism Mrs. Mariana Nikolova, who will answer a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on salaries in the administration of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Is the people's representative Chakarov here? Mr. Chakarov's second call. Is the third call Mr. Chakarov in the room? [[The Quaestor gives a sign that the People's Representative Jevdet Chakarov is coming.]] Mr. Chakarov, put on your mask. Hurry up, because you are wasting the extremely valuable time of Friday parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, on 12 June last year I asked you a parliamentary question about the salaries of the administration in the Ministry of Environment and Water. The reason I asked was that shortly before this I asked Minister Dimitrov a question about administrative capacity in the Ministry of Environment and Water and from what was obtained as an answer, it was seen that it was difficult to find a number of experts such as specialists in biology, chemistry, engineering chemistry, hydrogeology, ecology, bioengineering, architecture, water networks and so on. First, it is difficult to find experts, and the second main reason that has been pointed out is for insufficient payment to other administrations and ministries. You have also made a commitment to put this issue before the Administrative Reform Council, where this disproportion between payment in the MoEW structures at central and regional level, to consider and to correct it by setting out specific amounts that will be needed to level the pay, because in the MOEW structure against other administrations and ministries, once again, I point out that it is of a very serious concern difference, and this disincentives young people to focus on and retain such responsible and serious work. I hope that we will get a positive answer that the issue is addressed in view of the policies implemented by the Ministry of Environment and Water and the necessary administrative capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, on the occasion of your question, I provide the following information. By the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 under the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water, staff costs were increased by 10 per cent for the increase of the basic salaries of the state employees and for compulsory insurance contributions at the expense of the employer. As a result of the increase of the basic salaries, the average salary on structures on 31 March 2020 was: Executive Agency for Environment 1051 BGN, regional inspections on the environment and the water The funds thus provided to increase the basic salaries of employees could not reach the decision on this point. 4 of Protocol No 46 of the Administrative Reform Council meeting of 16 August 2018 to address wage differences in administrations of the same category. The conceptual decision to increase staff costs for all administrations by 10 percent has led to a greater difference in pay in the MOEW compared to administrations of the same category. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 201 of 7 August 2020, staff costs under the MoEW budget were increased by 2 million. 610,000. £700. Talks were held in advance with the Ministry of Finance and information was provided on the inclusion of all secondary officers with a budget of the 30 percent increase for the main salaries in view of the activities related to prevention of the spread of COVID-19, the treatment of the infected or the limitation of the consequences of the pandemic. Nevertheless, national parks and central administration were not included in the financial estimates for an increase in staff costs by 30 percent. PMS No 240 of 31 August 2020 in addition to the Regulation on the salaries of public administration officials was granted the right to the heads of the Executive Agency for the Environment, Regional Environmental and Water Inspections and Basin Directorates to increase the individual basic salaries of employees from those bodies by up to 30 percent by 4 September 2020, with effect from 1 August 2020. On the basis of the increase of the basic salaries, the average salary on structures as of 4 September 2020 is as follows: Executive Environment Agency The average wage of the employees of the parks remained unchanged.. 1007 BGN, or 30 percent lower. In the central administration of the MoEW, low pay and workload of employees is an obstacle to attracting qualified specialists with appropriate education. In the first quarter of this year alone, staff turnover in the Central Management of the Ministry of Environment has increased, those who have left are 6% of the total number, and in recent years there has been a tendency to switch experts to other state bodies offering better pay. In the Central Administration of the Ministry of Education there are 30 staff with a basic monthly salary which is less than 70% of the average salary for grade 2 at the respective level, which is 10 percent of the number, without the employees of the Directorate General of the Operational Programme of the Environment. At a meeting of the Administrative Reform Council held on 24 September 2020 under the heading "Administrative Reform Council', 3 on the agenda with the theme "Analyses of staff costs of administrative structures" are presented data on pay levels in administrations of the same category, of which there is a significant difference in pay levels. Further clarification was made by the Council of Ministers that some circumstances reflect negatively, and in this regard according to point. 3.2 of Protocol No 59 of 24 September 2020 to the Administrative Reform Council proposed the establishment of an Interdepartmental Working Group with representatives of the Council of Ministers, ministries and the National Statistical Institute for the establishment of a methodology for collecting and analysing data on the remuneration of public administration employees and for determining the staff costs of administrative structures.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u49	Get it over with, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u50	In accordance with the instructions of the Minister of Finance and the updated budget forecast for the period 2020, no expenditure is planned for other wage increases of employees at the Ministry of Finance in 2021, including for central administration employees. The State Budget Act 2021 provides for a 10% increase in public administration salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u51	Thank you. Mr. Chakarov, line. I didn't hear about the central administration what the number was.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u52	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! From the answer I get, we can't be completely satisfied. It's rather obvious that my question has been up-to-date. The disproportion that is present between the administration as a whole and, in particular, the administration at central and regional level in the Ministry of Environment and Water is continuing. Furthermore, it is worrying to me that disproportion is being introduced between separate structural units within the ministry itself after the steps taken. Yes, it's good that these steps have been taken, and you can see that the salary is somewhere around BGN 1300. of these structures, where it is increased by the relevant acts, but to tell you only that the average annual salary is BGN 1426, according to the data of the National Statistical Institute for 2019 for the sector of government. That is to say, after the increase in wages in the structure of MOEW compared to 2019, the increase in 2020 is more than 100 BGN. under this level. So we need to continue this trend to level wages, and even more against the background of what you point out is that there is an extremely high turnover in the central administration of the Ministry of Environment and Water. I am also saying this from the opposition's position that the MoEW structures are extremely responsible for the policies that are expanding for activities they are carrying out. They first have at expert level functions and duties to form the relevant policies, then to implement and last but not least, to control. We see cases, as is...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u53	The weather, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u54	Just one, two sentences. ...in Svoge with waste, if there is sufficient administrative capacity, we are all convinced and I am convinced that this control will be much more effective. Naturally, civil consciousness is needed, but control is necessary. In view of this, I am indeed pleading and we will continue to monitor this disproportion and dishonesty towards these employees to be overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u55	Thank you. Will you use a hole, Mrs. Nikolova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, I would like to clarify that for the period 2021 the increase in staff costs is worth 3 million. 223,000. £900. If possible to secure the above funding, the Ministry of Environment and Water will take action to draw up a draft decree of the Council of Ministers to approve additional expenditure on the Ministry's budget and change the regulations, in particular the Regulation on the salaries of public administration employees. At the moment, a solution to the problems is also sought through the redistribution of activities between the required personnel, as well as by the award of additional tasks and responsibilities to the qualified personnel available. Once again, I am explaining that this budget will also seek additional opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. For the turnover in this ministry, Mr. Chakarov, there are also prosecutorial precedents, you know? Let's move on to the next question. It is to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. The question is from the MP Lalo Georgiev Kirilov concerning rehabilitation and reconstruction of road II-37 Djurovo Mr. Kirilov, come in for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u58	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mrs. Secretary! At what stage is the development of a technical project for the major repair of road II-37 Djurovo "Slatitsa" and what means are necessary for the complete repair and rehabilitation of the route; within what time will the road be fully completed and put into service, so known as Zlatishki Pass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, in a previous answer to your question about rehabilitation and reconstruction of a section of road II-37 Djurovo In this regard, I inform you that on 11 June 2020 the Road Infrastructure Agency announced a public contract with subject: The estimated value for the preparation of the technical project is 266 800 BGN. without VAT. Rehab is divided into two sections: From the exit of the town of Etropole from km 20+964 to km 35+580 at the local road exit leading to the non-functioning tunnel Kashana. From the village of Churchishte to the beginning of the town of Zlatitsa from km 42+810 to 44+820. The procedure is at the stage of consideration of the price offers of the admitted participants according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. The time limit for the development of the technical project shall be 120 calendar days after the conclusion of a contract with the selected contractor and within that period shall not include the time for reviewing the development and holding of meetings of the Expert Technical Economic Council, as well as the coordination of the project. In the case of finished design documentation for the major repair of Republican road II-37 in the specified areas and after the provision of funds for its implementation, public procurement for the selection of contractors for construction and construction supervision will also be possible. The value of the site will be clear after validation of the design documentation and according to the construction and installation activities provided for therein. The performance of the repair will restore the performance and wearability of the pavement and will find a technical adequate solution for the drainage of the road. To recall that the Zlatishka Pass is closed for movement from the 1980s and the condition of road II-37 in the other sections is satisfactory and they are supported by the budget under the programme "Current repair and maintenance." In 2020 in the section from the beginning of the road to km 21 there was patching of asphalt, cutting of bushes, young forest and mowing of grasses. After the winter season is over, the most compromised sections of the road will be mended and horizontal marking will be placed. In the section from km 45 to km 59 during the past year activities have also been carried out in current repair and maintenance. The efforts are to complete the procedures of the Road Infrastructure Agency, to be selected contractor, to have a project and to proceed to real construction and installation activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u61	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come in for a cue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u62	Thank you, Madam Secretary. From your answer, I understand that the award procedure is already underway and it is at its end for the award of the design. I hope that it will be implemented in time, everything will be fine and will not be delayed this procedure, because, as you have noted, the road really hasn't been functioning since the 1980s, but it is important. In any case, it is kept closed, but it is used by both the population and the economic actors in the region of Etropole and in the region of Srednogorje. I hope that within this deadline the project will be made and we will have a ready road next year, it will not be delayed for any reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u63	Thank you. Would you like to use the back? No. Thank you, Madam Secretary. With this the questions for you have ended, pleasant and successful work! The next question is to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ms. Denitsa Sacheva. The issue is from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva on the application of the monthly target aid to families with children up to 14 years of age under declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemic situation for the period from November 2020 to date. Mrs. Zheleva, if you'd like to discuss your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, for almost a year now the saga of the aid that the state gives for parents who have to raise their children at home caused by the pandemic continues. Why do I say almost a year? Because we know that in March, some of the establishments visiting our children were closed. At that time the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy offered a help that was very low at this stage, extremely ineffective was the help itself, because it was a one-off and reached a very small circle of people and families. Its design was then changed and came to a really much better help because it was connected and linked to the number of days when children did not attend school or kindergarten, but the scope also remained very small. At the next third stage it was so that the design was changed for the third time. That's why I'm saying that this saga has been almost a year and somehow the government has never reached the right option so that the parents can really get the help they deserve. I will not go into detail that in other European countries it does not work out by so many criteria, which I will soon list. It has come to this, although the aid is a little bit better as a range and as a sum because they already receive a much better amount than BGN 915, what happens, so there are a lot of rejections? Many citizens with signals to me say they have illegal refusals. Why am I saying this? Because in the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act in art. 16b is written: Unemployed parents are entitled to such payment, but only if they are left out of work................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, this is only in the requirements. In the Law, in the regulation, this is not written in the Rules. And what do you get? The Ministry's supposed to give some money, but then people can't get it. It is illegal and unacceptable to add legal acts to the requirements that must then be fulfilled by the relevant departments, agencies "Social assistance." [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, my question to you is: for this period, when the month of November 2020 when all children were mass quarantined at home, how many applications were for monthly targeted aid for families with children up to 14 years of age under declared emergency or declared emergency epidemic situation; how many of these applications have been respected; how many applications have been refused to grant the aid? In view of the non-small number of unfair refusal alerts, what are the main groups of reasons for the refusals given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u65	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, with Decree No 218 of 17 August 2020 of the Council of Ministers to supplement the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act, changes were adopted with which a new type of monthly targeted aid was regulated. This aid is regulated in art. 16b of the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act. In November, PMS No 322 of 23 November 2020 changed the terms and conditions for granting monthly targeted aid to families with children up to 14 years of age in the event of an emergency or an emergency epidemic situation. I am in a hurry to explain that this assistance has been introduced precisely for people who have suffered from the pandemic, so it is also a requirement with regard to the rest of the people without work. With regard to the question you have asked, I can inform you that for the period from November 2020 to 18 January 2021, a total of 48 195 applications have been adopted in the Member States for social assistance and 36 213 award orders have been issued. 8954 applications have been refused and the main reasons for this are the following: the child is not taught synchronously from a distance in an electronic environment or does not attend nursery or kindergartens, as well as pre-school groups due to the restrictions introduced; it has been found that children have regularly attended study sessions in an existing form of training when applications have been submitted. A second group of reasons for the average income of a family member for the month preceding the submission of the application is higher than the minimum wage. And the third group reasons are that the family does not fall within the circle of persons referred to in art. 166, para. 1, t. 4 of the Rules on the Implementation of the Social Assistance Act. That is, parents have been found to be working, taking temporary disability leave, and in this situation there is no way to get one more help, or receiving child care compensation up to one year, and that in some cases the children for whom they applied for are over 14 years of age. The funds paid up to now amount to nearly 30 million, the exact number is 26 million. 493 thousand. 148 BGN, and in processing are currently 2700 applications - statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u67	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Jeleva, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, yes, a few loud numbers you mentioned that, you see, 36,000 orders have been issued. I also mentioned that at the end of the year, aid was made to cover a wider range of families. However, here my question is as follows: why is the Ministry allowed to issue instructions that lead to several interpretations? There must be no interpretation in the regulation. I'll give you an example only in point. 1 and I will read it from the Rules and concerning this assistance Art. 1. 16b: The two or one of the working parents or parent who raises a child alone cannot carry out a remote job. The two or one of the working parents or parent who raises a child cannot carry out a single condition; they do not have the opportunity to use a paid leave. The second condition is that they do not receive cash compensation for temporary incapacity. At one point only we have three conditions. And what happens? In some of the directorates only want to do one thing, and in others they want all three. That's a fact, because a lot of citizens have approached me with these examples, and I'm not going to talk about that. 2 where they should not have received unemployment benefits during this period. You yourself know that if a family wants help for November month because these days this child has not been in kindergarten for example, it can receive unemployment benefits and will receive from the previous month because it does not get a month per month. Then they do not fall into this condition and it is so that they have to file complaints. Yeah, some are accepted, some are not. But there are actually few complaints, and you said about 9000 refusals there are likely to be many complaints on them. Here is the question: the costs that follow from this, who will bear them? Of course the Ministry will take over because there are complaints now, and there are many cases that will be brought to this aid. I say this because not once does it happen that the interpretation of some texts is done in several ways. Again, this is unacceptable and cannot be handled this way. I strongly state that we must stop this incompetence, which is becoming a norm, because if someone says that it has to be so, or five people say that this is right, it is accepted because it is written in this text. Finally, I do not think that this is the approach to parents. I started so that it was only at the end, one year after the declared state of emergency, that we came to some help that was more real to people. I think it's a mockery for a year that we wonder how to write a text so that a parent can get help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u69	Get it over with, Mrs. Jeleva. Thank you. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, loud words were heard here again from the stands of the National Assembly. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this help has been made from the very beginning for some 50,000 families. At this stage, and within a school year, so far, we have supported almost 37,000 families. What we have planned, we are fully fulfilling these promises of ours. This shows that we have properly planned the needs that Bulgarian families have. We have really had to do several times a re-exit of the measure, but this is normal in a situation where the epidemiological situation has been constantly changing, and the conditions under which students will teach if there will be combined distance training, or if there will be entirely distance training. The situation is dynamic and it offers changes. The fact that changes are being imposed does not mean that something has not been done properly, on the contrary, means that we are reacting extremely flexibly. Bulgarian families receive between 610 BGN. and BGN 915, which are also good amounts. As for the instructions we have given, it is possible that somewhere in the area there is this misunderstanding and that the three conditions may be cumulatively required. I make a commitment to check it out, to further give, if necessary, more instructions. And what you have as signals with you, I could also commit to checking these signals of citizens and respectively, if they are entitled, to restore their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The questions to you are over. Enjoy your work until the end of the day and enjoy your rest! And now questions to the most sought-after minister in the Republic, Mr. Kostadin Angelov, Minister of Health. The first question is from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Violeta Zheleva about adequate and working financial mechanisms for timely and quality treatment of children abroad. I very much ask all MPs, at least out of respect and respect for the health minister, to put their masks on those who have not put them on. And the noses under the masks, not over. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the question we are putting to your attention today is an extremely sick and sensitive topic because it concerns the chance of life of Bulgarian children, especially those who are seriously ill and need treatment abroad. I only recall that after a decision of the National Assembly and later with a decree of the Council of Ministers dated 28 March 2019 the Center for the Treatment of Children was closed and as of 1 April his activities were transferred to the National Health Insurance Fund. During a discussion of the decision by this tribune, colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group have repeatedly warned that this decision and this action will reduce the possibility of access to treatment abroad of severely ill children. Alas, it happened exactly what we warned about then. Of the 12 million promised at this time. lv. from your predecessor Minister Ananiev it turns out that the sick children in Bulgaria reach only a little over 1 million. lv. In 2019 only one comparison of the funds to the National Health Insurance Fund took advantage of only 132 children worth just over a million and 200 thousand. lv. In 2017 the number of users took advantage of the possibility of being treated abroad and in Bulgaria was 1173. You make your own difference. It's times. This action, unfortunately, has opened a niche of organizations such as "Help Karma" which for the period of existence managed to collect nearly 21 million. lv. Unfortunately, by vague rules and criteria, they have become the only chance of life for the Bulgarian children who are seriously ill, succeeding in discrediting the process of donation in our country. To this day Bulgaria continues to be the only country in the European Union in which citizens are constantly raising funds for treatment. Real working mechanisms for treating children abroad were not built. The life and health of these sick children depended only on the mercy and good hearts of all Bulgarian citizens. In this regard, my question to you is: when will the state create an adequate and working system and adequate and working financial mechanisms to provide timely and quality care and treatment for Bulgarian children abroad? 7 million. lv. I think there aren't that many to have parents of seriously ill children raise funds through campaigns.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova and Mrs. Zheleva, the closure of the Center for the Treatment of Children is in line with the amendments adopted in the Health Act and with § 13 of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019, according to which the activities carried out by her are transferred to the NHIF after 31 March 2019. I note that the number of children mentioned in your question in 2016 includes the total number of children supported by the financial mechanisms of the Center for the treatment of children and children in Bulgaria and abroad, while the number of children mentioned in 2019 and 120 in 2020 refers to the number of children who are treated only abroad. You can see from the information provided by the NHIF on this issue: as of 1 April 2019 the Fund for the Treatment of Children at the NHIF has passed 146 applications for treatment of children and 46 of them have already been issued by the Fund orders. The NHIF has organised the stay and treatment of children and their attendants, with a financial obligation of 5 million on those applications. $267,000. £13. For the period 1 April 2019 1234 applications were received in the NHIF on 31 December 2019. 1073 commandments were issued, 894 of them in connection with treatment in Bulgaria and 169 abroad. For the first time by the NHIF have been approved and orders have been issued for the treatment of 25 children with spinal muscle atrophy, and from 1 January 2020 all actions have been taken for the smooth passage of treatment with expensive medicinal products of 5 children under art. 78, p. 2 of the S.I.A. The costs incurred by the NHIF for the treatment of persons up to the age of 18 for the period amounted to 23 million. Seven hundred and BGN 211. For the period of the first 9 months of 2020, a total of 1090 applications for payment of medical and other services to persons up to 18 years have been received. 985 orders were issued, 788 of them in connection with treatment in Bulgaria and 197 for treatment abroad. By the end of September, the NHIF has incurred costs of organisational and financial support to persons up to the age of 18 million. 156,000. 058, 37 BGN, of which for treatment in Bulgaria 10 million. Three hundred and 029, 21 BGN, and for treatment abroad BGN 029,16 For those periods, treatment orders were drawn up abroad from 15 countries, with the largest number of children who received organizational and financial support for carrying out diagnostic medical procedures as well as control examinations in Germany, followed by Austria, Switzerland and France. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Mrs. Jeleva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, whatever figures you are reading here before us, whatever you tell us, the facts are present. What's more important than anything that's happened in the scandal with Help Karma? More importantly, trust in donor initiatives is very low, and the lives of thousands of children's fates depend on these donation campaigns. From the beginning, when the Fund was accepted to be deleted and transferred to the NHIF, we strongly opposed that this was not a working mechanism. Yes, there were probably scandals with the Fund, but a significantly higher number of children were treated abroad. We ask you: what are the adequate mechanisms and will you create new working mechanisms? Because it's obvious, every day we hear an appeal for the donation campaign of a child who needs to be treated, and urgently, within a month, somewhere abroad. The main problem is, I say, working mechanisms, because we are waiting for a change of the Regulation on several basic things. That's the question we're asking to increase attention. Yes, you were not then Minister, it was Minister Ananiev's promise, but to this day it has not changed. I'm saying some basic problems that are now in the Regulation. The cost of transplantation shall be paid from the moment of hospitalization of the patient to its dehospitalization for a period of not more than six days. Do you know how long it takes for this child and his family to stay there after treatment? Sometimes it takes up to 90 days. These funds are not being taken over. The second is that the main problem of granting treatment funds remains to this day, and those outside the European Union do not have funding. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is the problem with healing in Israel, this is the problem with Turkey. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, this is a very important matter for you to give me a few seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u77	Important, however, last time you went on quite a bit.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u78	The other problem that remains is that transplants are offered in Bulgaria and then the treatment of children abroad is stopped. But what's happening? Presumably, almost all transplants are made in Bulgaria, but there are almost none. That's the main problem. We work on better legal arrangements so that there are more transplants in Bulgaria, but this does not happen. Once again we get to the point that the Constitution is not respected in Bulgaria and there is no adequate treatment for children who have more specific health problems...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u79	Get it over with, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u80	...and especially for treating children abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u82	I'm asking you to make this regulation change... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u83	Mrs. Jeleva, please. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, all activities carried out by the Center for the Treatment of Children are transferred to the NHIF in full range. No activity has been withdrawn, that is to say, no existing rights have been revoked for patients in need for access to treatment. In addition, it is further extended the scope of activities for which, by amending Regulation No 2 of 2019, the restriction of organ transplants and haematopoietic stem cells abroad to be financed only in Member States of the European Union, which you claim, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, is exhausted. Thus, when the transplant cannot be carried out in Bulgaria, such is financed at the most suitable hospital for the patient abroad. In addition to the above, with the NHIF Budget Act for 2019 and 2020, the activities transferred to the NHIF for administration, which are activities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, are financed by the funds from transfers from the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Health. It is apparent from the above that the Ministry of Health and NHIF have taken all necessary measures to ensure the functions, activities and other rights and obligations related to organizational and financial support to children for their timely and quality treatment both in Bulgaria and abroad. Because whenever it comes to children, the issue is extremely hot, very please, if you have data on delayed treatment or delayed provision of funds to prevent the treatment of Bulgarian children, or those that violate the constitutional rights of Bulgarian children, please introduce me to them. I will take all necessary measures that depend on the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to ask the MP Dora Yankova about the policy of the Ministry of Health so that the health system can acquire air medical transport. Mrs. Yankova, you have three minutes to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u86	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister, I have asked the question as a question for the following reasons to clarify the policy of the Ministry of Health about how it will acquire air medical transport. I was surprised to find out that the Ministry and you as a minister have no air medical transport available. And that long-spoken golden hour if urgent or specialized medical assistance is needed for people from the country to Sofia, or for other reasons, the Ministry is actually staying away from the Ministry of Defence, it must follow a long procedure, to go to the Ministry of Defence or to the Prime Minister. For this reason, in the Budget Act, I gave my word and I proposed in the budget discussion to increase the budget of the Ministry by 25 million so that you could start creating a system and therefore be able to organise and manage this activity by you. During the budgetary procedure, there was no debate, except for the proposal here from the stands. Both you and the finance minister, who was previously the minister, were silent. It was almost necessary that the budget as it is constructed must pass, although I now realize and I suppose that my fellow Members want Bulgarian citizens to have this because the health of Bulgarian citizens is priceless. For this reason, I have tabled a question from the platform of parliament to clarify what policy the Ministry is conducting in order for the Bulgarian health system to have air medical transport. [[Loud noise.]] I realize that you are one of the many ministers in the three editions of Mr. Borisov's government and that in these years there was a different debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u87	Please remain silent. The BSP parliamentary group, if you please! A colleague of yours is asking questions right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u88	I realize that you are lobbying now, even in the coronavirus, when there is sometimes acute respiratory failure, you have to make a decision. But in parallel to this: a lot of financial public resources are available in the country precisely to strengthen the health system in critical and crisis situations. Therefore, I think that this is where the Bulgarian citizens in the country should receive this operationally and quickly. Perhaps my greatest satisfaction is that this parliamentary debate unblocked civil, journalistic, media debate, including on social networks. If you enter, you will see what great pressure is and what a great desire is for citizens to be calm on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, come in, you have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, the modernisation and development of emergency medical care is a top priority in the health policy for improving the quality of health services for the population in the country. In this connection, a series of interrelated activities, resulting from which a comprehensive reform of emergency medical care is being carried out, the entire material and technical base is being completed, including 203 cases of emergency medical care centers and branch offices exposed to them, as well as 34 emergency wards in hospitals with over 50% state participation in capital. The provision of air medical transport is the logical next step in achieving the state-of-the-art level of medical care for the population in the country. The requirements and conditions for its use as part of the emergency system are also laid down in the current medical standard. In view of the importance and role of this investment, the Ministry of Health has successfully prepared and defended a project proposal. 999 thousand. 990,96 BGN, within the priority axis 4 "Regional Health Infrastructure." The project is being implemented at the moment and the deadline for implementation is 36 months from the date of entry into force of the administrative grant contract. During this period a medical helicopter will be produced and delivered, the necessary logistics base will be provided according to the requirements for storage and operation of the company manufacturer, as well as the relevant aircraft operator, training of flight and medical personnel will be carried out. The main objective of the project is to introduce the best European practices for providing emergency medical care to those in need, including by providing air medical transport. In order to achieve this objective, two specific objectives need to be met, namely: Increased access to emergency medical care through the purchase and equipment of modern air transport vehicles for patients with emergency conditions and providing accompanying infrastructure for their operation; In the event of a failure to comply with the requirements of this Regulation, the competent authority of the Member State shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of the results of the assessment referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article of this Article. The project contributes to the implementation of objectives set out in the strategic guidelines and objectives of the National Health Strategy 2020, the Concept for the Development of the Emergency Medical System in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014-2020, and other European and national strategic documents. The same is focused on ensuring equal healthcare for citizens, including those in remote and hard-to-reach areas, and is consistent with the future demand for the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, come in for two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for this information. It's public. We know you have about 20 million from the R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R &amp; R & D. And the information about the military, which I believe the Council of Ministers has made up its mind about. Let's have that too. But my first question is: you, as Bulgarian Minister of Health, if you are to be ordered for air medical care at the moment, how many minutes will it take and what coordination procedure will you perform? The second question is: in the Restoration Plan, in which one of the main highlights is social and health infrastructure to strengthen health infrastructure................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Did you suggest in the Restoration Plan that this was there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, if you are ready, the questions are extremely specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, regarding your first question, there is a procedure under which, within no more than 30 minutes, the Minister of Health has the opportunity to lift air transport for every Bulgarian citizen in need, wherever he is located on the territory of the country. This is a signed procedure with the Secretary of Defense. To date, there is no need for a Bulgarian citizen who needed such air transport and did not receive it on time and on the spot. With regard to your second question, you are probably referring to the construction of the HEMS system "Helicopter emergency medical system" on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, I have had several conversations with stakeholders and competent parties concerning the construction of this system. As early as last year, a working group was established with the Prime Minister, which includes representatives of various ministries and departments that are relevant to the possibilities for building such a system. Our team at the Ministry of Health held a number of research meetings with countries where this system works. Before the end of 2020, I had a meeting at the Ministry of Health, attended by the Chief of Defence, General Mirchev, General Mutafchiyski, representatives of the company "Avionams" in Bulgaria, where we discussed Bulgaria's options regarding the launch of the HEMS system. Indeed, we are talking exclusively about the construction of serious infrastructure, the training of a large team of professionals, including pilot and servicing staff of aircraft, the construction of medical 24-hour teams, which is an extremely big challenge and it is possible to happen. In this direction, in order to happen and meet the criteria for a complete HEMS system, Bulgaria must build at least seven take-off points for these aircraft with 24-hour standby from teams. We've started a procedure for the organization in this direction. The relevant procurement will be announced for the purchase of the first helicopter. Then, when this happens, we start training the staff and start building helicopter sites on both sides of the Balkan Mountains, as this is one, I would say, a geographical problem for flying on both sides of the Balkan Mountains. We are also starting two things -- or upgrading, repairing existing cougars, which is one option, the second option is the purchase of another type of helicopter, which is a decision to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u95	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, you have two minutes to express your response to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u96	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, you have very bravely announced that within 30 minutes no Bulgarian citizen, if needed by the country, will have a pass or an opportunity not to receive specialized air medical transport. I address all the directors of hospitals, the Bulgarian citizens, the rescue services and where it is necessary to hear well that the Bulgarian minister made this commitment. This is really brave because they have had such needs, but your deputies say: Secondly, by repairing the cougars, they are necessary for an airline evacuation. Buy those helicopters that are with the Europeans, but at the moment you say that the next more dangerous wave of coronavirus comes, and with these ambulances that have the state at the moment, access to Sofia is not so fast. If you have the opportunity to order by one helicopter within 30 minutes, that's good. I would like to recommend you: try even to enter into a contract with an airline to pay rent, but not to wait 2023. It is not necessary that Bulgarian citizens have a debate in the media space: is the helicopter more expensive than one person's life? That is why I raised the question and it will be good from this parliamentary tribune I understand that this edition of the Bulgarian Parliament is the end of the Bulgarian Parliament. The ministers of health will periodically inform Parliament about what is being done on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. The next question is from the National Representative Maria Tsvetkova about a problem with the state of the building fund and the equipment of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Panteleimon... Yambol, and the lack of medical staff at the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Ivan Rilski. In Elhovo. You have the floor, Mrs. Tsvetkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, a major and long-standing problem for the citizens of Yambol district is the poor condition of the building fund and the equipment of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Panteleimon in Yambol. The district hospital was built a century ago, there are 29 wards that are housed in 17 old ruining buildings. As you yourself stated a long time ago, the health facility is of the pavilion type. The lack of elevators in most of the buildings makes it difficult not only for patients but also for medical staff to carry doctors, nurses and nurses from floor to floor in an impossible and absurd way for the 20th century. In this regard, my questions to you are: what is your concept for solving the problem with the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. In Yambol, Panteleimon, and in what time will the new hospital be completed? What funding will be supported by Yambol District Hospital in relation to the requirement that 50% of hospital beds be for patients with COVID-19? And one more health problem I put to your attention on the territory of Yambol District, related to the lack of doctors and nurses to work in the housing department of the Multi-profile Hospital for Active Treatment. Ivan Rilski is in Elhovo, who stopped taking patients with COVID-19, pneumonia and acute respiratory disease, precisely because of lack of staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Tsvetkova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u100	Three questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u101	I wouldn't say that. Rather, there are two firsts and the second ones are united, but you are right that they are trying instead of one question here to push two. I hope you can handle the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u102	Three, actually. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tsvetkova, regarding your first question. In the context of a rapid deterioration of the epidemiological situation under the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2020, additional funds of 50 million have been provided. lv. for a subsidy to hospital care facilities to maintain medical preparedness during the period of the declared emergency epidemic situation by providing over 50 percent of the bedside capacity for treatment of patients with coronavirus infection according to the order of the Director of the relevant regional health inspection under art. 94a, para. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions. In this respect, a contract was drawn up to grant a subsidy under the abovementioned order of 460 thousand. BGN 443. of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment Panteleimon is a city of Yambol, and the funds are transferred to the medical establishment at the end of 2020. Your second question. The Ministry of Health has taken the necessary steps to solve the problem with the building fund of Yambol District Hospital by completing a new hospital complex at the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Panteleimon is financed by the state budget through a gradual increase in the capital of the company with a cash contribution of up to 27 million. lv. for the period 2022 approved by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 2019 In this way, opportunities will be created to apply the most modern and effective methods and technologies for diagnosis and treatment in the hospital. On 9 November 2020 on the account of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Panteleimon "Yambol" has been transferred money amounting to 13,5 million. BGN, representing a monetary contribution for 2020, designed to increase the State's shareholding in the company's capital. Upon receipt of the amount, a public contract has been declared under the Law on Public Procurement. Under the terms of the contract, the term for the execution of the construction works shall be 12 months from the date of conclusion of the contract. The management of the medical establishment predicts that if the current procedure ends with the choice of contractor and there are no appeals and obstacles to the execution of the contract, the planned construction works can be completed in several months in the first months of 2022 and then the site will be put into operation. It should be borne in mind that those deadlines are conditional and depend on the course of the procedures under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of a contractor for construction works and of a person exercising construction supervision. I would like to express my confidence that, after providing the necessary funds from the state and with good organization by the medical institution, the problem with the completion of a new hospital complex at the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Panteleimon will be decided by the end of 2022. On your third question. Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Ivan Rilski "Yelhovo" Ltd. is a medical establishment with 100 per cent municipal participation in capital, where the rights of a sole owner of capital are exercised by the Municipal Council in Elhovo. The hospital has 5 compartments and 55 beds, and there is also a revealed sector with 15 beds for the treatment of uncomplicated cases of horse mackerel which has not been functioning since the beginning of December 2020 due to medical staff disease. At present, there is no need to restore the activity of this sector, as the exposed 178 beds for the treatment of uncomplicated patients with hair and 7 beds for intensive treatment at the Hospital St. Panteleimon... Yambol......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The town of Yambol is enough for the district. 19 doctors, 28 nurses, clinical lab technicians, rehabilitators and X-ray lab technicians work at the University Hospital "St. Ivan Rilski" Ltd. The most acute is the need for doctors, especially with the specialty of internal diseases, as well as nurses. The manager of the medical establishment informs about numerous conversations and meetings with doctors from the city of Yambol, Sliven, Burgas, Targovishte, Varna and others with a view to attracting them to work in the hospital, but, unfortunately, currently without results. The main reason for the refusal and lack of motivation of medical specialists is that the work in a hospital in a small town and the obligation of availability and duty does not attract them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Local authorities have expressed readiness to support the problem of lack of medical professionals by providing government housing and taking over overheads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Tsvetkova, will you have a reply to a brief disagreement on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Citizens of the district of Yambol deserve a new and modern hospital for so many years and I appeal to you once again, together with the active participation of the state, to speed up the process of completing the building of the new hospital and the equipment whose construction began in the late 1970s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Tsvetkova. Your disagreement was categorical and violent. [[Radio.]] Mr. Minister, I don't suppose you'll be using the backrest. Thank you. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Nikolay Ivanov on the National vaccination plan against COVID-19 in the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Ivanov, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, a National vaccination plan against COVID-19 was developed and established in December 2020. It contains the key components for vaccination against COVID-19 and describes the process of providing, implementing, monitoring and evaluation of vaccination of the population in the country in accordance with uniform standards, including monitoring of possible reactions after vaccination. Five stages of vaccination are envisaged, and due to the initially expected lack of the required amounts of vaccines, as well as it has proved, and is already a fact, and to meet the general needs, prioritising the target groups on the basis of epidemiological and ethical criteria has been done. According to the forecast, about two million Bulgarian citizens should be vaccinated in these first pre-phases before mass vaccination is started. In this regard, my questions are: what are the time estimates of the National vaccination plan against COVID-19 in the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the initial five stages of vaccination; when can the beginning of the mass vaccination be expected and access of each Bulgarian national be granted to the vaccine; is the dependence on the non-deliveries of the vaccine by the European Commission in any way threatening the deadlines that the Bulgarian government has set for its implementation in the national vaccination plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, Mr. Ivanov, by Decision No 896 of 7 December 2020, the Council of Ministers adopted the National vaccination plan against COVID-19 which aims to counteract the spread of the virus and reduce the potential health consequences of the disease. The risk groups of the country's population with an indicative number of individuals are prioritized. There is no set time schedule for the implementation of the activities covering individuals of the individual phases because limited amounts of vaccines are expected to be delivered at the outset according to the production capabilities of the manufacturer. The website of the Ministry of Health shall indicate indicative quantities of the two types of vaccines authorised to be used by the European Commission, any supply confirmed by the manufacturer shall be made public with a date and quantity. Pursuant to the agreement authorising the European Commission to conclude, on behalf of the participating Member States, preliminary purchase agreements with the vaccine manufacturer in order to supply vaccines for the purpose of combating the CoVID-19 pandemic at Union level, each Member State of the European Union has declared initial quantities of vaccine from each producer. On the basis of Eurostat data, the European Commission has calculated percentage quotas for each country and the quantities are allocated according to the quota allocated to Bulgaria, and the production capacity of each producer. There is a possibility for quota quantities to be renegotiated between Member States. For this reason, the delivery times are indicative. An example is the first delivery of the Pfizer vaccine, which, at the request of the European Commission as the first approved vaccine against COVID-19 was of symbolic quantity and was sent at the same time to all Member States. An indicative delivery schedule by a manufacturer of a COID-19 vaccine will be available after a signed contract between the European Commission and the manufacturer that has completed distribution, redistribution of quantity quotas between Member States, completed a centralised quality, safety and efficacy assessment procedure by the European Medicines Agency for the specific vaccine, approval by the European Commission of the European Medicines Agency. As shown above, supplies of vaccines against COVID-19 shall be available over time according to the approval of use by the European Commission and the production capabilities of manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will there be a line? Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, according to the published schedule for expected quantities of vaccines against COVID-19, a total of a million and a half vials of the BioNTech and Moderna vaccine will be delivered by the end of the year. These quantities will ensure the vaccination of 750,000 Bulgarian citizens............................ even for the priority groups envisaged in the five phases of the National vaccination plan. It is clear that the main principle of distribution of vaccines from the European Union is the proportional... according to the number of the population. Separately, however, each country is free to choose from which vaccines to state. Apparently, poor planning when choosing vaccines for our country and delay in their requests led to a symbolic number of vaccines delivered during the first month. Vaccinated today is 25 251. Now we wait in line and mass vaccination by the end of the year looks like a mirage. It is more dangerous that, as a mirage, the vaccination of priority groups, especially of the most endangered people. The problems with the production capacity and the delay in the approval of some of the vaccines are beyond the possibility of solving by the Bulgarian government, but also the passive position of a minor vaccine officer is not working. How active is Bulgaria in the debate in the European Commission and the European Council on increasing the capacity of vaccine production and a significant increase in their supply? Last but not least, is this period of symbolic start of vaccination used to create a lean organisation for mass vaccination? Is there a clear plan to provide a sufficient number of immunization rooms and to support general practitioners who will perform the majority of vaccinations? I expect your answers to be comprehensive because these answers interest all Bulgarian citizens [[the President signals that time has run out]] wishing to inoculate and wishing this to happen in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u111	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in for the back-up on the heavy charges that have been made to you by the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, with great zeal was your statement probably caused by a dose of fear, but apparently this dose of fear is caused by the lack of information we have. What you were referring to at the beginning of your speech, with its claims, are almost all false. First, there will be a sufficient amount of vaccines in Bulgaria by the end of the year. Once again, I say that on the website of the Ministry of Health are uploaded indicative quantities of vaccines with which we have signed a contract. Bulgaria from Pfizer will receive quantities of vaccines, which are approximately 3.9 million doses and not 1.5 million doses. Divided into two for 750 thousand people. Three whole nine million doses! With them will be approximately vaccinated two million Bulgarian citizens. So the numbers you said are only with those with which we currently have confirmed supplies with clear dates. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] The others are indicative quantities that we will receive, and then, when the dates are clear, they will be uploaded to the Ministry of Health website. Regarding the two questions raised, is an organization running for the so-called general immunisation? Yeah, absolutely. All letters have been sent to the general practitioners, who should indicate from their patient list what are the required amounts of vaccines for them according to those who want to be vaccinated Bulgarian citizens from their patient lists, who have not been in the first stages of vaccination according to the National vaccination plan. With regard to the vaccination rooms that are built in regional health inspections, in medical facilities, in mobile immunization offices, very soon together with Google will be presented on the map of the territory of Bulgaria and will be visible to all Bulgarian citizens. We are currently collecting all information to be uploaded to the Ministry's website to be accessible to all Bulgarian citizens. So I'm going to repeat something I always say, fear begins where the information ends.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on the number of vaccines received in Bulgaria. Although the People's Representative Krasimir Yankov answered this question, but now there will be an opportunity for the Minister to answer it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I would not like to continue in this plan, as you have called it, but the questions put in this House are always very serious. The question that I allow myself to put to you, on behalf of our parliamentary group, is related to the data released in the public space, which also showed Bulgaria's place in relation to the other countries of the European Union as a number of vaccinated population, and the absolute number of vaccines that have been imported into the territory of the country. Regardless of what you have shared, the data is on statistics and I will further develop them later in my clarification of the question that the number of vaccinated people currently in Bulgaria is extremely insufficient. This raises another question that I have allowed myself to address to you: every drug agency within the European Union has the right and some countries have exercised this right to address other vaccine producers outside those which have been visited by the European Union and to provide contractual quantities for their countries. I mean the Republic of Hungary, if you do not know. I assume you know that. In addition, there are many other producers that are already on the market. My question to you is: how the Bulgarian Government implements the vaccination policy and what was said in an interview by the Chairman of the Pharmaceutical Union, I would like to hear your attitude regarding this issue; do you not think that the expert opinions on the distribution of vaccines, which are decided by the Bulgarian Government as quotas, should be made public within the vaccination calendar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u115	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the questions you have asked have nothing to do with the question asked to me, namely the one you sent in writing. I will respond to it, and to the others I will respond to the opportunity provided by the Rules of the National Assembly. The agreement authorising the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines to combat the CoVID-19 pandemic is published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 71 of 2020 provides the European Commission with a mandate to propose to the participating Member States to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements on the purchase of vaccines with their producers. Under that agreement, the European Commission proposes to the Member States to conclude two types of preliminary agreements on their behalf. Those giving the right to acquire doses of vaccines and those containing an obligation to acquire doses of vaccines. The Republic of Bulgaria participates in six preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines against COVID-19 for a total of more than 13 million doses of vaccines, which, due to the information available on a two-dose administration regime, guarantee access to them by the entire population of the country to the recommended preventive and free vaccination. Two vaccines against COVID-19 have been assessed as safe and effective so far and have been approved for use by the European Commission. Publicly available on the website of the Ministry of Health are indicative quantities and delivery times of both authorised vaccines. Any delivery confirmed by the manufacturer, I stress thick, every delivery confirmed by the manufacturer is publicly announced with quantity and date of delivery on the website of the Ministry of Health. The European Commission's approval of another manufacturer is expected as soon as possible. As production capacity increases, the quantities of subsequent supplies are expected to increase. As for your question, if you are considering buying other vaccines other than those agreed by the European Union, I will inform you of the following. As a Member State of the European Union, the Republic of Bulgaria fully implements European legislation on medicinal products in human medicine. If another vaccine against COVID-19 is needed to meet the needs of the country, the Ministry of Health will not hesitate to propose the purchase of a vaccine by a manufacturer outside the European Union whose documents have been assessed under the same procedure as safe and efficient by the European Medicines Agency and approved for use by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mikhailov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is in front of the chairman. He can decide if it has anything to do with what I asked you. I think it was 100% consistent with the questions I asked you. Now I'm going to tell you some things that have already been done as an analysis. First of all, the percentage ratios of the vaccines that Bulgaria has placed at the outset put it in a very favorable position against all the other countries of the European Union. I mean, this data has already come out as an analysis of the relative small quantities ordered by Pfizer- BioNTech. Secondly, the explanation that you gave to the Health Commission yesterday that the Ministry has taken conservative approach to vaccination with the first dose and thus provided the second dose is logical. Assuming that the second dose had come, Professor Angelov, if I showed you the statistics data, and this is not an organization whose data can be ignored, you will see that even if we double the percentage of the population, Bulgaria will again find itself in the last three places. The analysis itself, which was presented a few days ago by the statisticians, suggests that with a great deal of certainty, the amounts of vaccines that could be negotiated had to be very carefully exploited. Moreover, I would like to remind you that, at the end of last year, suddenly as a parliament, we were involved in an emergency negotiating session, you remember, the vaccines from Janssen, and here has already proved to be a counterparty Kingdom of Sweden, and because for reasons unknown to us Bulgaria had initially given up. Indeed, all these issues require a very transparent removal into the public space and the opinions of the experts and the decisions taken for quotas so that things, Mr. Minister, before the Bulgarians as a nation can be crystal clear, not to create any speculation and to move step by step forward in this so important vaccination calendar for the country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u119	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the doppelganger for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, I don't know who is creating speculation and certainly not me. Regarding the proportion of vaccines, I don't know which analysis you're talking about. I've never seen an analysis like this. There are some allegations in the public domain that are false. The word "diversification" is modern, it is, and that is exactly how we have approached it. We have taken an absolutely responsible approach to Bulgarian citizens and have provided equal amounts of vaccines from each type of vaccine. There are three types of vaccines. The first vaccines have an information RNK and they come from three suppliers: Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and CureVac. The following are antigen vaccines for which the suppliers are suppliers of the same company, and the following vaccines are vector vaccines that are from Janssen and AstraZeneca. We have approached all types of vaccines with the clear awareness that we need to provide approximately the same amount of doses so that an equal number of Bulgarian citizens of each type of vaccine can be vaccinated, namely approximately three million Bulgarian citizens can be vaccinated by the three individual groups. Neither have we approached a firm's choice nor have we approached a manufacturer's choice, as you claim. It's really speculation that doesn't match the truth. We've chosen the type of vaccine. With regard to the percentage of vaccinated Bulgarians, let it be very clear: yesterday after the European Council, we commented with the Prime Minister and he introduced me to the concerns that the other countries have about the delay in the quantities for the delivery of vaccines in the countries concerned, in particular in Italy, and thus the possibility of vaccination with the second dose in accordance with the summary of the product characteristics, which you understand what it means, is completely disrupting the possibility of effective vaccination. If we had done so, you would have told me from this tribune: "Mr. Minister, you are irresponsible towards 17 000 Bulgarian citizens for whom you have not provided the second dose. " - So we acted conservatively, but forward-lookingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov about the training of students from V to XII grade. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u122	Thank you. Before I begin my question, Professor Angelov, I can provide you with the material I have used. It's not my analysis, and it's not my speculation. I cannot say whether it is speculation, and I can provide you with the source, if you want, after the parliamentary control is completed. So these aren't my statements, they're statements I've seen, and I shared them with you so we could discuss them. Thank you. Dear Professor Angelov, dear colleagues! The question I will now address to you I hope that I will not be accused again that it is not exactly as recorded motamo and the way I have written it to the chairman of the meeting is related to one of the earliest problems in Bulgaria in the last year, related to the CIVID-19 pandemic, is the problem of education. Now I can tell you without any speculation that Bulgaria is in one of the top places in the lack of attendance of students and actual attendance training. This was analyzed at the beginning of last year. For reasons still not explained to us, all the other countries had left their schools open. It continued at a very fast pace, very early in the autumn and created extremely serious psychological and educational problems for the young generation of the state. These problems were even affected by the Secretary General of the United Nations, not for Bulgaria, of course, but for the whole world, who warned the world that an educational disaster could happen, but so far, despite yesterday's conversation in the Commission, we do not see any clarity in the policy of the Ministry or the government how young people in Bulgaria will continue their education in the conditions we are put into. Moreover, a lot of data came out, there were clear criteria of countries in different parts of the continent Europe, and many of the schools remained open. Not to mention speculation again, but there are no mass schools in Greece, as quoted by some sources, but only 63 schools in Greece. My question to you is: how do you see the role of the Ministry of Health in preserving the educational potential and the possibility that Bulgarian students can successfully complete with sufficient knowledge, their education in this calendar year? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, when you quote an analysis that has come to you, at least out of respect for the MPs, it is certainly good to check the data in it, because in the other case this is a misconception of all Bulgarian MPs. Regarding the clarity of Bulgarian education and Bulgarian students, I think it is very clear what we said from the Ministry of Health that thanks if we can use this word, the COVID-19 priorities have been rearranged before us. First of all, the priority is the sector. "...................................................................................................... In relation to the data you have cited, it should be borne in mind that, as a result of an assessment of the different indicators, such as the number of registered cases and affected age groups, the 14-day prevalence in the territory of the country, by districts, and hospitalised persons, including intensive wards and structures, and the 14-day mortality, on the basis of which specific stepwise measures for deescalation of the introduced restrictions are proposed, the attendance studies for students from I to IV grade and individual attendance visits to the centers for support for personal development have been resumed from 4 January. From 16 January the attendance of examinations and individual activities, practical hours, Olympics and competitions for all students from I to XII class included. The gradual and smooth return of attendance training of students will allow expert evaluation of the development of the epidemic process with a view to the impact of the renewal of attendance studies for students from I to IV grade. It is apparent from the available data in the global and national plan that the new coronavirus continues to circulate in the conditions of the restrictions introduced, and any hasty cancellation leads to a new increase in the diseased and registered from recent epidemic waves. I would like to remind you that general anti-epidemic measures have been put in place on the territory of the country. The measures are in line with the recommendations and guidelines of the WHO and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, which aim to break the mechanism of transmission of infection between people in closed and open public places. We follow with concern every number related to the epidemic, and this gives us the reasoned decision of February 4 to partially restore the educational process in the system of secondary education from V to XII grade, return the attendance training to 37.5% of the classes, or up to 40% of the classes, together with the Ministry of Education and Science we will draw up such a type of programme so that it will be coherent between the two ministries and carry at least risks both for students and for teachers and also for Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Professor Angelov, I am partly satisfied with your answer, because I see that finally the mind has prevailed and the children will begin to return to school. It is not only about the children from I to IV grade, it is not just about the children from kindergartens, but also about the above courses. But I would like to share something with the esteemed audience, to you yourself as a respected professional, that the decision to quote the incidence in October and November at least the students were guilty of it. Let's talk about this kind of chain. You and I are doctors and fathers, in no way, I have shared it with you in a private conversation, at open large outlets, at works almost until the end of November drinking establishments, under the free regime of the students, this closing and non-existent training was absolutely illogical and it created... You and I are fathers, you know what a miracle it is with students at home. I ask you, as a doctor and as a father, not as a minister: from now on let us listen to the voice of reason, to seek the maximum for the benefit of the young. This is our future, and their deprivation of attendance training is the biggest failure. Back in April and after a very serious study I shared it with you twice in the hall, the Association of French Pediatricians said: return the children to school. For them, the consequences would be much more severe than if you left them outside. I ask this question twice in a row in this Chamber because we did the exact opposite. I hope we can take a legal path now and not break the integrity of the learning process, because this is very important for the future of the nation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u127	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Mihailov! The question that you asked as a supplementary question would have been an excuse to be asked if our morbidity continued to be a leading one and we remained at the leading mortality sites. I think the decisions we have made have led to the result that we are currently looking at the 27th place in the European Union and the 9th place in mortality. So I respond to you both as a father and as a doctor and as a minister: decisions have been made informed, we have stepped on extremely serious scientific data and practice data. I believe that the examples with the countries you have given are not appropriate given the results of the morbidity in these countries that we are currently observing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Lalo Kirilov on the construction and equipment of Philial for emergency medical care in the city of Pirdop under the investment project "Support for the development of the emergency medical care system." Mr. Kirilov, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u130	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Dear Minister! My question is a follow-up to the topic that I asked a few weeks ago related to the project "Support for the development of the emergency medical care system." Then I asked about the system throughout the country, and here it is specifically about the subsidiary in Pirdop. At what stage is the implementation of the construction and delivery of emergency medical equipment in the city of Pirdop under the investment project "Support for development of the emergency medical care system"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u131	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, at present the Ministry of Health has prepared an investment project for the Urgent Medical Medicine Philial of the city of Pirdop, for which a building permit has been issued and entered into force since 18 September 2018. In connection with the implementation of the activities under the large investment project financed under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" 2014 First, a public contract for the selection of a contractor for the exercise of copyright supervision during the construction and installation works for the sites in Sofia region. Contractor was selected "Teraconsult" Ltd. for the exercise of copyright supervision during the construction and installation works. A contract with the selected contractor will be concluded by the end of January; Second, a contract for the selection of a contractor for construction supervision during the construction and installation works for the sites on the territory of Sofia region. A contract has been signed with the contractor "Life Energy" Ltd; Third, a contract for the selection of a contractor for the construction and installation work for the needs of the extra-hospital structures of Emergency Aid in the territory of Sofia region. A decision has been issued to the contracting authority for ranking and selection of performers. According to him, position No. 3 "Complete construction works for the needs of the FSMs in Etropole, Pravets, Botevgrad, Pirdop, Elin Pelin, Ihtiman, Kostenets and Samokov is terminated because the only tender submitted does not meet the conditions for submission. The suspended separate position is expected to be changed in the beginning of February. According to a contract with the contractor, Sofia france autos JSC for the needs of the SPSP Pardop, a number of ambulances for intensive medical care type C are being delivered and a number of ambulances for emergency medical care type B are to be delivered. I inform you that four contracts for the delivery, installation and commissioning of medical equipment and specialized medical equipment for the needs of emergency rooms in 34 state institutions, 27 emergency medical centers, 176 branches of Emergency Medical Services and teams exported to them have been concluded in implementation of the Project. The following medical equipment has been delivered: one monitor; a portable combined defibrillator with remote monitoring capability, one number; a single number of transport fan; one number; an electrocardiographer; one number/car for a CPR unit; one number; an AMBU unit breathing apparatus; one number; an infusion pump type The implementation of the fourth contract for the delivery of non-diagnostic medical equipment has also been launched. The intended equipment for the FSMP "Pirdop" includes: three lamps, two couches, one stretcher for vertical lift, one wheelchair, one curtain. I am using this case to inform you that a procedure for selecting a contractor for delivery of 13 689 medical and technological furniture for the structures of Emergency Medical Services, which includes computer configurations, medicine cabinets and consumables, multifunctional trolleys, auxiliary tables, desks, lockers, chairs, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u133	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u134	Dear Minister, as far as I know, the deadline for implementation is the end of this year. Here I will say that at the beginning of the second government of GERB was placed as a priority the development of the emergency medical care system. The then Minister of Health Mr. Petar Moskov announced how they should be located on the territory of the country branches of emergency assistance. In 2015, the Municipal Council of Pirdop gave free building rights and since then there has been no development on the project. In the region of Srednogorje there is a potential risk of an industrial accident and the Emergency Aid Philial is operating in a poor material situation, which, as can be seen from the current health crisis, damage and adequate medical care cannot be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u135	The procedure has been terminated, Mr. Kirilov, did you hear? Will you take a hole, Mr. Minister? No. Thank you. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Health from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on the policy of the Ministry of Health in providing accessible emergency dental assistance. Mrs. Naydenova, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u136	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! In accordance with art. 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria are entitled to accessible medical assistance. In accordance with art. 5, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Act the Minister of Health directs the National Health System and controls the activities of Emergency Medical Services. In accordance with art. 82, para. 1, t. 1 of the same law, outside the scope of compulsory health insurance to Bulgarian citizens are provided medical services which are related to medical care in emergency situations, as may be those concerning dental problems. In accordance with art. 92, para. 1 of the Law organizes and finances an emergency medical care system, as in para. A legitimate definition is given as an acute and sudden change in human health, which requires immediate medical attention, such as dental problems, including oral problems. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 defines the financial resources of the Ministry of Health in the field of diagnosis and treatment, including financial resources for emergency medical care. If the Ministry of Health has organised the National Emergency Medical System, the emergency dental assistance has not been settled with regard to both the organisation and the financing. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the question asked by me: what is the policy of the Ministry of Health for providing available emergency dental assistance and will it be implemented in 2021 as 24-hour emergency dental assistance available?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, emergency medical care is regulated in laws and regulations which define the definition of emergency condition and the arrangements for emergency medical care. Section III of the Emergency Health Health Act states that medical care in emergency situations is aimed at preventing death, severe or irreversible damage to vital organs and systems, as well as complications in births, threatening the health and life of the mother or the fetus. Regulation No 25 of 4 November 1999 on emergency medical care lays down the scope, conditions and conditions for emergency medical care. Pursuant to Regulation No 3 of 6 October 2017 establishing a medical standard for emergency medicine, an emergency condition is any acute or sudden change in human health with a sufficient severity which can lead to death or severe or irreversiblemorphological or functional damage to vital organs and systems, as well as a complication in a mother's child, endangering the health and life of the mother and the fetus. The emergency medical care system includes emergency medical centres, emergency wards in medical facilities, one being secondary officers with a budget at the Ministry of Health, and the activities of emergency services are financed in accordance with Regulation No 3. Dental care facilities are outpatient care facilities. Under the regulatory framework, outpatient care facilities are required to provide the possible volume of medical activities to maintain the vital functions of the patient until a CSM emergency medical team arrives. According to the Rules for good medical practice of dentists in the Republic of Bulgaria in the event of a complication when applying anesthesia, the dentist should assess its character and complexity and its own ability to deal with it, take all the necessary measures that are in its competence, to deal with the complication and, if necessary, call a team of the Center for Emergency Medical. Therefore, in the case of acutely life-threatening disorders of the vital functions of the body, when carrying out activities within the scope of dental medicine or such disorders are due to the development of complications of dental diseases, it falls within the scope of the regulation of the Health Act and, respectively, in the sub-legal legal framework, the definition of emergency condition, they are served by the emergency health care structures in the regulated order described above. In the light of the above, the Ministry of Health fulfills its statutory obligation to ensure emergency medical care for patients in emergency situations by organising and financing the activities of the structures of the emergency medical care system. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, I would like to assure you that our goal is to ensure that every Bulgarian citizen has equal access to health services at all levels in hospital and hospital care in the effective spending of public health resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u140	Dear Minister, I understand that we, as doctors and you as Minister, are moving within the framework of the emergency medical regulations, but you should know that this is a problem that exists. We need to say what the problem is and look for ways to solve it, because while there are still emergency dental offices in large cities that provide 24 hours of duty and at any time can provide emergency dental assistance, the problem is more in small settlements where this service within 24 hours is not noticed, I say the service is not attractive. The regional colleges of the word organizations are also silent on this issue. I think that, as we have a National Emergency Medical System, the state can delegate a budget through the municipalities of dentists carrying out 24-hour dental aid at least in any municipal center. I'm making this proposal, I'm putting it to mind. Perhaps this will not be further developed and carried out in this term, but I think it is worth thinking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u141	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Mr. Secretary, I take it you won't be using the backrest?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u142	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u143	Thank you. The next question is again by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on the definition of a uniform vision of special and protective workwear and personal protective equipment for the teams of emergency medical care. You kind of mean. Vision is not a Bulgarian word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u144	I'll make this very clear, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! We all know that under art. 284 of the Labour Code is the employer who is obliged to provide special workwear and personal protective equipment to workers working with or under hazardous or health-threatening working conditions. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has shown that the majority of employers in the sector On the other hand, it impresses the uniform vision of the special workwear of police officers and firefighters, which gives respect to their professional duties and the attitude of society towards them, and those working in emergency care centres and branches, which are part of the National Emergency Medical System, are not recognizable. Dear Minister, please answer my question: what action will you take to determine a uniform vision of the special and personal protective workwear for emergency medical care teams, including the emblem of the National Emergency Medical System? If you do so, what time will it be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, the integrated emergency medical care system in the Republic of Bulgaria consists of two main parts of the hospital and outpatient part related to regulated organizational links and coordination mechanisms. The outpatient unit shall include emergency medical centres with their affiliates. The hospital part includes developed emergency services structures in hospital care facilities. Each emergency medical centre shall carry out its activities in compliance with the requirements of the standard and shall be managed by a director who shall be the employer of all those working therein. It is as an employer that it provides employees with appropriate work and/or uniform clothing in accordance with the regulations and specifics of the activity. According to the provisions of art. 284 of the Labour Code, the procedure for providing free workwear and special workwear and personal protective equipment to workers working with or under hazardous or health-threatening working conditions is laid down by the Ordinance on free work and uniform clothing adopted by PMS No 10 of 2011 and Ordinance No 3 of 2001 on minimum safety and health requirements for workers using personal protective equipment at work. The Ordinance on free work and uniform clothing lays down the conditions and arrangements for the provision of workers and employees with free work clothing, which protects the personal clothing of employees in the performance of their work and uniform clothing, where the performance of their duties requires the distinction of workers and employees from the rest of the population, as well as in the light of the activity of the undertaking. In their daily work, the teams of emergency medical centres use workwear provided by the employer under this regulation. The type, characteristics and distinguishing marks, including the colour, model and shape of the uniform work, clothing shall be determined in each centre by the employer after consulting the representatives of the trade unions, with the representatives of the employees under art. 7, para. 2 of the Labour Code and the Working Conditions Committee. The name of the centre is written in every emergency medical center, and its logo is placed, such as CSM Blagoevgrad, CSM Burgas, CSM Varna. In the event of dangerous and health-threatening working conditions such as the current conditions under the widespread COVID-19 pandemic, personal protective equipment shall be provided for emergency medical teams in accordance with the requirements of Regulation No 3 of 2001 on minimum safety and health requirements for workers in the use of personal protective equipment in the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u148	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In contrast, Mr. Minister, in which you have been constantly moving in the framework of regulations and legal regulations, I want to oppose a purely human attitude and this is what it is. I believe that you respect and love the colleagues of Emergency Medical Services no less than I do. It hurts me when they go to the winter and summer address not only dressed differently and dressed, thanks to decentralization of public procurement, but also not always dressed with uniform, warm, comfortable, protective, alert and recognizable workwear, unlike police, fire department and even BC. And often they have to work together and the difference is too fracking. I don't think you can say that's true. Now, in the Kovid crisis, I asked them, are you cold? The answer is yes! I believe, Minister, that you can at least try to change that. We, too, can immediately identify the other colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria when we see the colleagues from Emergency Medical Services. These aren't street people. Not only by what you said has the logo, but if you can make the outfit uniform, go beyond public procurement obligations, offer a legislative initiative if you have to, but we as proud of our officers when we see them, know how much criticism there was about their beards and so on, with our representatives of the BCC, with representatives of the fire department, so with one pride and respect to say: yes, these are our emergency teams!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, that was more of a recommendation. Would you like to be treated like a douche bag? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u150	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, I started my work as a doctor at the Sofia-district Emergency Medical Center and I am familiar with everything you say. Of course, some of the things are true, others are false. It's very difficult to imagine how I wouldn't comply with the Public Procurement Act. At least I don't know that kind of opportunity. Everywhere I go, I always visit emergency services. Tomorrow I will be in Varna, in Varna region, where I will meet with my colleagues from RZI and the relevant RIOs and ASSPs. I will also visit the Emergency Medical Center and personally check what you have said. If colleagues have a problem, the Ministry of Health will do everything in our power to solve the problems that you referred to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u151	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes the questions to you. I wish you success in your extremely responsible work on protecting the health of the nation. The next question is to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. The question is from the National Representative Kolyo Milev about providing a training hall for the Sliven Club in Sliven. Welcome to your question, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question is related to the provision of a training hall at the Boxing Club Sliven in Sliven. Dear Minister, for more than 46 years the Boxing Club Sliven has been using for the preparation of its contestants Hall of Asenovets in the town of Sliven. In 2019, more than 1.3 million were earmarked for the renovation of the hall, which is traditionally used mainly for boxing and volleyball. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Unfortunately, after the completion of the renovation in the last 2020, for unclear reasons, the contract for using the hall by the "Boxov Club Sliven" has not been renewed. This, along with the difficulties in the training process, which the club faces, means that the Boxing Club Sliven will not receive funding from the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Municipality, and that the sport boxing in Sliven, with its 75-year history, is facing the possibility of being closed down. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what measures will you take and when will the Boxing Club Sliven again have the opportunity to use the Asenovets Hall or appropriate other hall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u153	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milev, Ministry of Youth and Sports was notified on 8 January 2021 by the Executive Director of the Army Sports Club in Boxing. Sliven, about the problem of lack of a training room. As a result of the letter, I had a conversation with the mayor of Sliven Stefan Radev municipality and I was assured that a solution was sought together with the boxing club. We agreed the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Municipality of Sliven to finance a joint building of a new boxing hall in the city. The temporary trainings of the club are held in a room in the secondary school Hadji Mina Pashov and other opportunities are being explored until the final solution of the problem. Sports Hall Asenovets, which you point out in your question, is owned and operated by the municipality of Sliven and the municipality is within its power to determine the conditions to be met by sports clubs to use it. The information I have is that the hall is provided for judo training at a sports club with over 300 children. Army Sports Club in boxing. Sliven, with 16 carded contestants is included in the Sports Club Development Program for the current 2021 of the Ministry of Youth and Sport with financial support of BGN 11 659. Sliven is one of the cities with strong traditions in boxing and deserves an excellent place to prepare local athletes to be equipped with the most modern training tools. The boxing is one of the strategic sports for Bulgaria, which receives full support from the Sports Ministry. So far we have financed the construction of two new boxing halls in Ruse and Varna, as well as the renovation of other three, which are located in Plovdiv, Pleven and Sofia. New equipment has been purchased for the facilities. Our country hosts major international events annually, financially supported by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which pass through an excellent organization. In this regard, I assure you that the Ministry of Youth and Sports will cooperate within its powers and the Army Sports Club in Boxing. Sliven will be able to continue his work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply to what you have said, but is all 2020 lost? In 2020 we have a lack of care in boxing, and you correctly said that except in Sofia, where we can say it is the highest sports mastery, especially in boxing, the other place is in Sliven. For 76 years we have had prominent athletes who have ranked not only Republican and European, but also World Championships, and many Olympiads, second, third, even champions. During the whole of 2020, the Municipality was unable to decide where to train this club and was placed at a disadvantage to train in the gymnasium of this school, which you mention, in Kumluka district. I believe that the Ministry of Youth and Sport should intervene much more seriously with regard to sports monitoring. Such a sport as boxing to be taken out of the view of the Sliven public through changes in regulations, especially in the ordinance of the Municipality at the end of last year in order to remove boxing from the hall.................................................................................... It's like a boxing hall. The tablet of the best trainer was also removed. The one who deserved a coach and an honorary citizen of Sliven. And this room is now being provided for judo. We are talking in the future time that the Municipality will almost do some things, and you will agree and there will be such a hall. We will observe and hopefully what you promise will happen as soon as possible. But right now, the boxing club has nowhere to train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u157	Thank you, Mr. Milev. However, this is not the Municipal Council in Sliven, it is the National Assembly. It's not a state hall, you heard it's municipal. Are you going to be concerned about this or not, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u158	Dear Mr. Milev, I understand your arguments. But the first time we were alerted to this case, I reacted immediately. The situation is a relationship between Sliven Municipality and the boxing club. The moment the club informed us that there was such a problem, we intervened and reacted immediately. In any case, the commitment I make to you here in the National Assembly, I believe, will be fulfilled, as all the commitments I have made so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The questions are over for you. Enjoy your work and rest. We are moving on to the latest questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. The question is asked by the MPs Veska Nencheva, Manol Genov and Hristo Prodanov about the post-Seventh-grade reception plan in Plovdiv. Ms. Nencheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The educational system is called upon to be adequate and useful to public needs and expectations. At the same time it forms and determines these expectations and attitudes. So the process is mutual. In the last three years, we have definitely not observed this mutuality in the way the Ministry of Education and Science has passed its policies on post-Seventh grade reception in secondary schools. You submit everything to the formula: more STEM profiles at the expense of humanitarian education, and even in language schools the reception is not allowed in full. In Plovdiv region, two years of the Ministry of Education and the Regional Management of Education made a favourable compromise in quotes as a reception in a foreign language profile, but did not bother to check and take into account the specifics of the region, including economic, as well as the needs and attitudes of the people of education. Specifically in the town of Karlovo in early 2019 and 2020, knowing the educational traditions in this region, as a representative from this region, together with the directors of both schools and the decisions of the pedagogical collectives, we were able to save the reception in a foreign language profile. At the beginning of 2021 we were already faced with the explicit proposal of the RVO not to discuss admission in a foreign language profile and the two secondary schools to guide their campaign for admission of students after the 7th grade to another type of profile, declaring that the number of hours in a foreign language is compensated, but the profile is now different. That is, Karlovo students with a desire foreign language profile have the opportunity to study only in the district town, which is 60 km away from Karlovo, and daily travel is not within the power of any child. Karlovtsi has practically taken away the opportunity for their children to study in foreign language classes in their home town where students have proven to have high results in the state age exams, educators have established authority and practice, education has established traditions. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] Our question to you is: on the basis of what legal document and when are instructions given to the head of RIO Plovdiv, and to the principals of secondary schools in Plovdiv-district, in the town of Karlovo, the city of Parvomay, the city of Asenovgrad, to limit the number of foreign language classes with admission after seventh grade and replace them with another profile? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u161	Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u162	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva, in recent years there have actually been changes in the reception after completed primary education. They are basically functions of two things: the policy undertaken to restructure the adoption and the new legislation entered into force, respectively the new educational structure. In terms of politics, what I can tell you is 36% of the students are in language profiles, we have 11 more profiles. You mentioned a humanitarian, but you're making confusions between a humanitarian and a language profile. Only 3% of us have students in humanitarian profiles. We don't have a policy to reduce reception in humanitarian profiles. Foreign language training is important, but even more important for today's generation of students to acquire a harmonious mix of knowledge and skills that will make them more prepared for the future life. When we do the reception, we look for a complex section between the interests of children, on the one hand, on the other, the interest of the region in development and specialization in a particular area, from a third country, our collective interest. Our collective interest is to secure all areas of both public and business sectors. The children's interest is to give them more opportunities for development. What you demonstrate in your exhibition is a certain ignorance of the regulations, because you should know that at high school schools already have the opportunity to choose between three framework curriculums, including through intensive learning of a foreign language. That is, they can choose a profile, a profession that is not a foreign language, but learn at least the relevant language. As far as I know, since I received information from the Regional Management of Education in Plovdiv, this will be the choice of the two schools that you mentioned. This is better for children as far as it will give them opportunities for development in more areas. Even if they go to study abroad, continue in the higher education system, the wider mix of competences provides them more opportunities. Moreover, today's children will live in a time when they will not just change jobs but change jobs. All professions will require a more integrated mix of skills than they have required in the past. Yes, foreign language training should be an accent, but it should not only be foreign language training, but you have thus raised the question. So we shouldn't favour him at the expense of the others. Unfortunately, we have one such distortion in our education system. Our restructuring policy towards STEM is rather an adjustment to this, and it is in no case a favouring of STEM. I'll just tell you that at the moment and next school year the language profiles classes will be nationwide more than combined with the mathematical, natural, humanitarian, arts, all the rest of them without the software sciences, all of these profiles will be more than language profiles. Again, this does not mean that in all other profiles you cannot learn an extended language. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Change the curriculum. Schools in Karlovo did it, and you, as a leader...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u165	A line? Ms. Nencheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I personally did not expect such an answer because education is a concern for knowledge, education, building personalities in society and this is not ordinary accounting. If we are talking about attacks related to the lack of knowledge of the regulations in which I was accused, Mr. Minister, you have not bothered to get to know the needs of the people in the area in two or three years. Moreover, in a conversation with you we discussed the presence of professional high schools on the territory of Karlovo. One professional high school is less than a kilometer from one secondary school, where it will be studied.................................................................................................. And if I should quote the words of the head of RIO Plovdiv, she finds that the Karlovo region implies the development of rural tourism. Was this your analysis and response to the needs of the people, the community in Karlovo, without realizing that such a policy is unacceptable? It is unacceptable to deprive the entire community of the opportunity for children to receive education, which has been built for years as a tradition! Do you realize that you are taking away the perspective of an entire community? These children then return to school as teachers, because for our end it is a matter of honor and these traditions are still, luckily, preserved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u167	Thank you. Will you take a hole, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u168	Dear Mrs. Nencheva, in the legal framework you know that we do not define the plan we adopt at the end, but its definition takes place on the basis of a decentralised mechanism. Even if we do the best analysis, I am skeptical that we can determine in any area what social needs are. This is the best you can do for the people who are in place, the schools. And based on the generalized requests that are discussed at regional and municipal councils, the reception plan is confirmed. What are the needs of different communities? There is no doubt that one of the needs is for more children to remain in the areas, to remain in the country, to be linked to the needs of the local economy. By no means do I agree with your accusations that we are condemning a community to impropriety. Again, they can study to a lesser extent language learning. Are you convinced that the best thing for children is to learn only language? Yeah, sure, if we want to become philologists or translators, that's good, and we'd divert them from learning other things. What we are convinced of, especially in school education, is that we must give the harmonious mix of knowledge and skills to children. Yes, we have profiling, yes, we have a thorough study of certain subjects. Again, foreign language can be one of these objects even when choosing other profiles and specialties. No one from the Ministry or from the Regional Government believes that the class should be what you said it would be. It's a local community decision. But agree, on the other hand, that we also have a distortion in the system of high school education. This distortion is normal because every parent wants to give his child the best and understands it by providing him with opportunities for learning in a foreign language class. Yes, but you know that we already have new study plans with opportunities for an extended study of a foreign language, and we need to take this opportunity. You, as authorities, should explain this to the parents and not speculate politically with the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to the final question for today. He is from the National Representative Donka Simeonova on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for prevention of professional stress and the effect of professional burning of pedagogical personnel. Here you go, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear fellow teachers! Professional burn syndrome is one of the most serious diseases of the 21st century. According to the World Health Organization, he is already gaining the size of a global epidemic. Among the most affected, the most risky professions are the professions of the medics, politicians, lawyers, social workers and, of course, the people with one of the most difficult professions of teachers. A study of the burning of teachers since 1995 shows that this process is about 5% per year, which means that teachers can work for up to 20 years or, more importantly, in this case, we need to take measures to protect them in order to be able to carry out their duties properly. And since this issue is extremely serious, it is placed in various forums, including being placed at reception meetings, on our Education Weekly Project, when we discussed a vision for Bulgaria. Taking into account the seriousness of the problem, the Ministry of Education and Science has commissioned research on the extent of burnout by the Bulgarian teachers in order to see the current state and, I suppose, to give the proper mechanisms for dealing with this problem. In October 2020, a National Conference was held in Veliko Tarnovo, where attention was again sharpened and showed how serious this problem is. It was pointed out that the Bulgarian teachers are twice as many as their European colleagues - these Bulgarian teachers who are victims of professional burnout syndrome. Now, in the situation of COVID-19, this stress is extremely increasing among teachers, performing the CIVID activities and actions, and this issue is again very relevant. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Dear Minister, in this regard I ask you to answer the question: what is the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science in dealing with the syndrome of professional burning of teachers?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u171	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, thank you for your question. This topic is important because if we can reduce the level of this syndrome, we will have better results in the educational system and teachers will work more and better. There is no doubt that Bernaut syndrome or professional stress, overheating, interferes with the work of teachers, the better work of the system. This issue has not been a matter of attention in recent years. As you said, in 2019 the Ministry assigned a scientific team from Plovdiv University to do national research and diagnosis of the Bernaut effect in teachers in Bulgaria. Once again, thank you for the question, as it was an occasion to read the report one more time. He's certainly useful. However, overheating is a function of many factors in the system and must be the subject of a targeted and long-term policy in order to achieve tangible results in terms of reduction. What teachers most often refer to as factors is related to the attitude of parents and students, the supportive environment, the administrative burden and a number of other stressful factors. With regard to the administrative burden, there is no system without administrative burden. But what has been done in recent years in the education system is to make regional governments refocus their activities to support schools and control that is not based on a document. Unfortunately, the traditional bureaucratic system replaces the inability to sometimes evaluate the result by assessing a document and the system becomes formal.... we do not appreciate the work of the teacher, but we appreciate the extent to which he has filled out the document. Unfortunately, it was a dominant practice, I'd say, transformed into a culture for decades. This creates stress.. not so much the work on filling out the document as the stress that it is under control. On the line of electronization we have eased the administrative burden, we have eased and some of the documents that had to be done had to be filled out by the teachers in the system. We have created administrative modules -- yet to upgrade -- to integrate internal administrative platforms -- if so extended, we call the electronic logs -- to which administrative modules with the National Information System will be added -- which provides one integrity of the information and reduces the filling time. One of the most stressful factors is working with students. The fact is that teachers work to a much greater extent in communication workload, in multiple environments than in many other professions, and this is inevitable. What can be done, and we have provided for it in the National Program, which we are currently preparing, and will be part of the National Programme package for 2021, is aimed at prevention, rehabilitation of teachers, but it will also include activities to counter the stress factors...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u173	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u174	If I may, I'll be done. ... at the level of educational institution and creating skills to deal with chronic stress at work. I'll continue with the other things later.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u175	Thank you. Mrs. Simeonova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Yes, the problem is very serious and requires really systematic and national policy for solving it, because this problem is not personal and the Bulgarian teacher must feel secure and protected. Yes, there are numerous factors, the causes of this stress. And by doing a full analysis of them, you said some of them, starting from school aggression, from lack of motivation, administrative workload, non-existent activities. Also a serious problem is the relationship between teachers and parents for the child's upbringing. The burden now in this situation is a sharp shift in teacher's work regime. We've received numerous offers. Some of them are already looking for their solution. One of the questions was about the early retirement of the teachers. It is good that now the Labour Code allows it to be the teacher's choice, but the matter of the Master's Fund and the way of distribution has not been resolved, but we will have a special question for you on this issue. The other thing that is particularly important is for the re-categorization of teaching work. A large percentage of teachers want teaching work to be a second category and it is related to the fact that already after 50 years of age a large number of colleagues are at this age, the study worldwide shows that teachers also have enough health problems. And the proposals in this regard are to reduce the teacher's workload. It can be done in different ways through education, as well as sound at the moment, for example, reducing the regulations of teachers, reducing the number of children in a class, because then the individual approach to working with children can be implemented. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Of course, there are many other proposals that are related. For example, a year should be allowed to work without students for qualification, teaching. I would like to say that we have summarized the various proposals and the Bulgarian Socialist Party in its vision for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u178	Thank you. However, the most important of all factors is the overall support of the environment, the support of the director, regional governments. If we have a good interpersonal relationship, a good psychoclimate of work, if the culture of collegiality and support is required, then sooner or later it is reflected in the motivation and reduction of the level of stress factors. So this is our appeal to everyone in the system, and we're trying to impose this culture. As I told you, in the National Program we will be setting up activities to counter the stress factors and create skills to deal with chronic work stress. By the way, not as much the volume of communication with parents as the quality of this communication. On the contrary, where there is more intense communication, it turns out that teachers eventually manage to create better relationships, increase the level of mutual support with teachers and reduce funds. So our appeal is for better communication with teachers. What happened during the crisis last year is that better school communities were created. You know, during e-training parents entered the classrooms, the teacher entered the home, saw each other's difficulties, created numerous micro-school classroom communities that are the basis for mutual support, and that was one of the factors that worried me most. The conflict, more precisely the antagonistic relationship between parents and teachers, has been greatly improved in many places. Of course, remuneration, leave, justice of remuneration is important, not only the amount of remuneration but also the fairness of remuneration, i.e. the relative differences. These are all things that we discuss with social partners, and every year we take a step. Of course, we can't all the good wishes to realize them, we can't raise wages at the same time, we can reduce the weight of the class and the standard of teaching. But if you look, we take small steps every year, led by understanding that this is important for improving the results in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-22.u179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Enjoy your work and enjoy your rest. That concludes the extremely important and attractive parliamentary control. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: "The Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on two issues written by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on two issues from the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Kristian Vigenin; The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov asked a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin. For lack of respectable reasons of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev his question is postponed to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next session is January 27th at 9:00 p.m. again in the same room. [[PHONE RINGING]]
