ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I am reporting to you a draft decision regarding Decree No 204 of 6 August 2021 of the President of the Republic and an application. No 46-154-00-11 of 10 August 2021 by Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov. I propose on the grounds of art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be included as the first item in today's agenda. Are there any counterproposals? There's no obstruction. I'm voting on my proposal. They voted 207 MPs: for 207, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is to release BNT 1 and BNR cameras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u3	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to include the cameras of BNT and BNR. Vote 206 MPs: 198, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I'm asking for a direct transmission. Mr. Valchev, come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is hardly a Bulgarian citizen who does not see what happened in the negotiations for the establishment of a cabinet of "There is such a people." There is hardly any Bulgarian citizen who does not remember that we said that we will not offer a cabinet if we do not have the support of a Democratic Bulgaria. And since they didn't support us and publicly said they wouldn't support us, we did exactly what we said. We do not understand what is not clear and what is the problem!? Why are you pretending now that you do not understand that with the refusal of Mr. Plamen Nikolov the term is practically not fulfilled, but you are organizing debates on such a transparent and clear case?! Why are you staring at a people like this when you now have three quarters of parliament, you are all together. Your past proves it. Hardly do you remember so little "BSP" were with DPS, Maya Manolova was from BSP and was with DPS, Tatiana Doncheva was from BSP and was with DPS, Hristo Ivanov was Minister of Boyko Borisov These are all facts, and your behavior at the moment is as if it never happened. Amazing! Now that you've talked about a historic chance these days, now you have the historic chance to be together again, just as you've always been. So stop blaming us. We're not a problem. We are the solution to the problem, but this is obviously going to happen in the next election. That is why now the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" will come out of the Chamber to avoid participating in this farce, to leave you together, whatever objectively your wish is and will come back here as soon as this is over. [[Applause from IHN]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u5	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. [[The national representatives of the ICN shall exit the Chamber.]] Moving on to: PROJECT FOR A DECISION WITH REGARD TO SAY NO 204 OF 6 AUGUST 2021 OF THE REPUBLIC'S PRESIDENT AND APPLICATION, IX. No 46-154-00-11 of 10 AUGUST 2021, from flat-rolled products of Nikolayv Nikolov. I'm asking one of the importers to submit the draft decision. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I, if you don't mind, will wait for one of these people to come out so we don't pollute them with the text of the decision that we are going to announce. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 84, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure We are submitting a draft decision concerning Decree No 204 of 6 August 2021 of the President of the Republic and an application. No 46-154-00-11 of 10 August 2021 by Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov. We ask the draft decision to be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. Project! DECISION with regard to Decree No 204 of 6 August 2021 of the President of the Republic and an application, No 46-154-00-11 of 10 August 2021 by Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and having found that with an application, Ic. No 46-154-00-11 of 10 August 2021, Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov asked to be elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria with Decree No 204 of 6 August 2021 of the President of the Republic, withdrew his consent to be appointed Prime Minister, to participate in the selection procedure and to propose structure and composition of the Council of Ministers HAS DECIDED The term of office for the formation of a government ends unsuccessfully. " - Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Hadjigenov. I'm opening a debate on the draft decision. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will make a brief statement because of the direct broadcast of the plenary session and so that there is no ambiguity in our television viewers and listeners. There is a problem in the constitutional procedure. This problem was created by the "There is such a people." It was created not because there are some important reasons to impose this, but because there are only scenarios in these people's heads. However, the state is not scenarios and signs, but procedures, acts and legal consequences. We, the residents of this House, whether we are assigned to the status quo, to the change, to the 12 years in inheritance, to the 12 years in the future, must somehow by our actions today and by our ruling on these acts do so, that, first of all, we give a clear sign that the constitutional procedure initiated and driven by the "There is such a people" has been finalised in a way that allows giving a next term, and also limits the possibilities for contesting acts, mandates and procedures that follow from here on. I consider it to be extremely childish and infantile...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u9	Please, Mrs. Doncheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u10	...the President of the Parliament yesterday all day to draw up the act that Mr. Hadjigenov read today, and this morning at the Conference of Presidents, after giving the members of the Conference of Presidents the text, to say that he will not sign it after signing it first! But on a different list!? We're not children in kindergarten! Yes, none of us standing here, regardless of which part of the political spectrum, regardless of who they belong to, has written this document and has not run the constitutional procedure under the first term before. I don't know what these people want to show or who they want to show! And what do they think is happening! They were not the problem, they were the solution! For whom and for what? So, if the goal is to make the state small, to make sure that all institutions are spitting, ostentatious, destroyed, delegated, I think this is the way to do extremely illogical actions from the beginning to the end, because there is no other explanation for such actions! The way of negotiating rightly raises a question on the Bulgarian borders: what did these people really want to have a government, not having a government, never having a government, changing parliaments as night wipes every month? This job is insane! I believe that there are normal people here who have differences in political views, who have a different burden on liking the voter, some may be the past, others may be the future, others may be the present, but as some right people, healthy, we need to do what is necessary: declare the constitutional procedure completed with the first term, give it the opportunity to move forward and not create problems from the point of view of the appeal. They were very afraid of the debate. Well, there's no way to avoid a debate in parliament! What they say is, at every point, this debate is going to be held! And it will continue until the end of this parliament, however long it is, will continue in the election campaign. You can't run away from this situation if you put yourself in this situation. I suggest that we support the draft decision as some correct Bulgarians and inform them that in fact the author of this work is the President of Parliament, who I think should behave as President in any case, not as a bolonka of some writer. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u11	Please, Mrs. Doncheva! These qualifications are not suitable for the Bulgarian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u12	I'll take it. Make a note of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u13	I am making a remark to you, but unofficially under the regulations, as it is your first such thing today. [[Radio.]] Are there any lines or other speeches on the subject? Here's your speech, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll allow myself to speak more like a constitutionalist than a politician. Within a few days we saw all attempts to make the Constitution, let me not use very heavy words, but at least bent, bent, broken so as to serve the interests of the first political power. We have found ourselves in a constitutional experiment whose consequences are yet to be felt in our political life. I hope, despite this blow to constitutional procedure, that we can return to the spirit of parliamentaryism. In both the previous parliament and in this Parliament, it is the political power that wants to have predictability, to have respect for constitutional procedures, to implement the fundamental principles of constitutional and parliamentary democracy. I would, of course, nevertheless like to express my respect to the final decision of the Conference of Presidents and to the Assembly's management of this draft decision to be before us. But the very fact that we have to vote on such a strange draft decision means a lot. It means that we have come to one stage in the development of our constitutional democracy, which can certainly not be called mature, consolidated and not use other epithets, which means that we all have a responsibility for the state of our state and all of us here in the coming weeks and months must make it possible to ensure good governance of the Bulgarian citizens, not bad political theatre, not distortion and twisting of constitutional procedures, so as to serve a pre-set scenario and certainly not a governance related to decrees, ultimatums and other means of pressure that we have had enough recent years. According to one of the definitions of parliamentary government, this is governance through discussion, governance by agreement. And I believe that "Democratic Bulgaria" is the political power that will show in the coming weeks and months that, in the name of national priorities, it is able to seek consent, to seek broad majority for key priorities such as judicial reform, as constitutional reform and will show its maturity as one of the main new political forces of the Bulgarian parliamentary and political terrain. It is extremely important to follow the principles. They are our compass in a stormy sea, and if we do not follow them, we will soon find ourselves at the bottom of this stormy sea. So principles first of all, colleagues. [[Applause from DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the presented draft decision, the aim of which is to remove Parliament from the awkward situation in which it turned out to be... The problem is political, but we are currently trying to stir up an extremely deep and irreparable legal mess. Assuming that attempts were made yesterday with the non-compliance to address this item on the agenda were fine, today we are trying to finish the Constitution. There's been a lot of talk in the last few days about the fact that there's a gap in the Constitution on the subject. No, the Constitution is clear, there is a clear set of fact compositions for the drawing up of the government, with clear acts which, in their causal relationship, lead to this either to be chosen or not to elect a prime minister. We are currently trying to adopt a decision that is not a solution because it does not exercise the constitutional right of Parliament by its act to bring about a change in the legal sphere, to bring about a consequence, and we find that something has failed, provided that the President has informed us that it has ended successfully. Moreover, in the motives of the draft decision is quoted art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4, which has successfully completed a mandate. Then when we are in a situation where we don't know what we're doing, the only thing we can do is act by law, act by constitution, act by law. Therefore, the normal political solution, which will untie the President's hands to exercise his constitutional commitments from now on, is to adopt a decision which is based clearly and categorically on the power of parliament under Article. 84, p. 6, by subtracting our partners in parliament from the awkward situation as colleagues, should we by chance not comply with the will of the candidate and vote against the same. The decision must be clear, categorically with the legal basis in the Constitution..................................................................................................... 84, p. 6 and this gives the opportunity, as a reason to untie the President's hands with the investigation, to pursue a further research mandate. That is why my proposal is the decision to have an editorship: Plamen Nikolov does not elect Plamen Nikolov as Prime Minister. "This, colleagues, is a solution and not a finding of something that has happened. And what happened is the candidate's will that he doesn't want to. We, with the proposed project, provide custody assistance to inform the others that he does not want to. With such a solution, we will create a demon, which I am sure will benefit from no longer legally, but politically all candidates for prime minister from now on, who, knowing that they will not collect the necessary majority, will, for personal reasons, apply that they do not want to be voted in the Chamber. Let's not let this thing go. In keeping with the candidate's will, let's make a decision that we don't choose him with, and let the president know. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for a line. This changes the nature of the decision, Mr. Zhelyazkov. I'm not sure we can vote this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zhelyazkov, what do you propose if it is rejected by the plenary, what is the solution? That's my cue. You are proposing that we vote on a decision: the National Assembly does not choose a single person and the House rejects this draft decision. What happens then? It's not serious. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Are there any other lines? Mr. Hadjigenov for a cue, and then I'll give you the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zhelyazkov, rhetorical question: how would you stop any candidate for Prime Minister to do the same, how? And the right answer is: no way! Yeah, I agree, the solution project isn't perfect, but the law is alive, it's changing. In this case, we're changing it. You can't stop anyone tomorrow, never do what you decide to do in this case to change your mind and this is not the way. So I suggest we vote on the decision, end this debate, and start doing the work we're here to do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u21	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u22	Gentlemen, your arguments are political. My speech was entirely subject to the spirit and letter of the law. You're introducing a hypothesis as to what would happen if... If we have a consensus to get out of this situation in accordance with the Constitution, we will not put it under..... if................ if................................................................ And as for the rhetorical question, yes, you are right, but these are still political arguments. Let us now show that parliamentaryism is at a height according to the text in the Constitution to adopt a decision to initiate the procedure in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're closing the debate. The proposal made by Mr. Zhelyazkov is dramatically different from the draft decision proposed after the meeting of the Conference of Presidents. In fact, neither the justification nor the decision can be voted on now, and I will not put it to the vote, as it is not possible. It must be tabled in due order if we assume that, for any reason, the decision that has now been proposed has not been taken. We are in a situation of precedent and thus the Conference of Presidents decided that we can get out of the situation after the discussions yesterday and with the President's lawyers. So what I can do is put the draft decision to the vote the way it was tabled. The debate is over. Procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, namely that you restrict the right of initiative of the Member of the National Assembly. This case does not concern legislative proposals, but editorial proposals. I believe that Mr. Zhelyazkov was correct enough to express the position behind which we stand in terms of the quality of this act. We therefore believe that the text he proposes is much more precise and much more consistent with the provisions of the Bulgarian Constitution. Of course, it is your right to judge, but I believe that if this draft decision in the absence of the mandate carrier does not receive support in plenary despite calls for parliamentaryism, then we will be set before a further precedent. Sorry, guys, but this is really turning into a fuck-up with the Constitution. I think we need to be reasonable, so, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put to the vote and our editorial proposal made by Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I understand that the situation is unusual, but agree, this is not an editorial proposal at all. I cannot put this motion to a vote, and if it turns out that the submitted Project has not received support, which I hope will not happen, then we will be looking for other solutions in this situation of precedents that we have fallen into in recent days. Mr. Bikov, you can't, because your group has already taken a stand, so there's no way I can give you the floor. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Let's move on to the vote. There's no way in the way you're running things. Your group on this point has already taken a stand so there is no way. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's right, let's follow the rules. Let's move on to the vote. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] They voted 105 MPs. There's no quorum. [[Noise and lines.]] There must be 121 MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] They must have voted 121 MPs. There should be 121 MPs present at any time, so there's no way. In this situation, I would suggest the National Assembly... [[Noise and lines.]] Don't go anywhere, Mr. Ivanov. I propose that we take a 15-minute break to gather the Conference of Presidents and assess how we will continue working on this item and on the agenda. Thank you. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u26	Colleagues, you know that in the electronic vote, there was no quorum needed to make a decision. So we're continuing with a roll call, so a little patience. The rules have given the necessary opportunities. Adlen Shukri Shevked- here Albena Simeonova Varbanova- here Alexandra Krasimirova Sterkova- here Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov - absent Alexander Blagovestov Todorov- absent Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- here Alexander Velislavov Todorov- absent Alexander Viktorov Rashev - absent Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Stykov Markov- absent Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Alper Azizov Muradov- absent Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- absent Andrey Nikolaev Mikhailov- absent Anita Petrova Kocelova- absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Antoinette Andonova Stefanova - absent Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva - here Armaan Agop Babikan here Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bajram Yuzkan Bajram here Bilyan Borimirov Karshovski - absent Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- here Boyko Lubomirov Kletchkov- here Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- here Borislav Dimitrov Sandov- here Burhan Ilyazov Abase- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valeri Plamenov Lachowski- here Vassil Dimitrov Apostolov- absent Vassil Yordanov Georgiev- absent Велизар Матев Шаламанов- here Ventsislav Mihailov Asenov- absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- absent Vladimir Marinov Marinov- here Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev- absent Vladislav Panchev Panev- absent Galina Ivanova Tavalyka-Georgieva- here Galina Ivancheva Dimitrova- absent Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Zaharinin Popov - absent Georgi Yordanov Ganev-here Georgi Milchev Chepishev- absent Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Gunner Nihat Ahmed here Daniel Valeriev Georgiev- here Danny Stefanova Canazireva- here Daniel Pavlov Mitov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- here Deliana Valerieva Pesheva- absent Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva- here Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Jekova Taneva- here Desislava Tsvetanova Tsoneva- absent Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov - absent Dimitar Angelov Ivanov- here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- here Dimitar Yordanov Yanev- here Dimitar Petrov Syarov- here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Gardev- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Ekaterina Spasova Gecheva-Zaharieva- here Elisaveta Dimitrova Belobradova- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Esheref Kasim Esheref-here Zhecho Donchev Stankov- here Zhivka Mihaleva Ironova- missing Zhivko Ivanov Tabakov- here Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova- missing Zornitsa Velinova Stratieva- here Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- missing Ivaylo Vanev Valchev - absent Ivaylo Krasimirov Kozhuharov- absent Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev - here Ivaylo Peev Staribratov- here Ivaylo Hristov Hristov- absent Ivan Borisov Totev- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Vassilev Hinoski- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Rumenov Klisurski- absent Ivan Stoynov Kuchukov- absent Ivelin Stoyanov - here Ivo Angelov Hristov- here Ivo Georgiev Atanasov- absent Iliana Petkova Zhekova- here Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Ihsan Halil Hakke-here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- here Kaloyan Milkov Yankov (DB, via internet platform) for video conference:- here Catherine Georgieva Ryahova- absent Katya Maximova Paneva- here Kiril Milanov Ananiev-here Kiril Sashev Simeonov- absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Georgiev Angelov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasen Kirilov Kralev-here Krasimir Georgiev Valchev- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krum Georgiev Donchev- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Lydia the Great Marinova-- here. Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Ivanov Bakardzhiev- absent Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov- here Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Kostadinov Peykov- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Maria Vassileva Capon- here Maria Tsvetanova Petrova- absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Petrov Andonov-- here. Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova- here Meglena Harry Guncheva- here Mika Mikhailova Zaykova- absent Mincho Hristov Kuminev- here Mladen Naydenov Marinov- here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Momchil Kunchev Ivanov- absent Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova- here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nikolay Dimitrov Hadjigenov- here Nikolay Emilov Hristov- here Nikolai Nankov Nankov- here Nikolay Stefanov Radulov- absent Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Vassileva Mitova- missing Pavlin Pavlov Krastev- here Pawnita Mihailova Petrova - absent Pencho Malinov Malinov here. Petko Angelov Kushtrev - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Nikolaev Nikolov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- here Petar Hristov Dimitrov- absent Petar Yassenov Marinov-here Petya Bozhidarova Dimitrova - absent Petya Dimcheva Mihalevska- here Petya Nikolaeva Tsankova- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Ivanov Danailov- absent Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski- absent Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov- absent Radomir Petrov Cholakov- here Radoslav Nikolov Boychev- absent Radostin Petev Vassilev- absent Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov- here Rosen Kirilov Dimov - absent Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Rumen Stefanov Pavlov- here Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov- absent Svetoslav Bonchev Kolev- here Svetoslav Georgiev Georgiev- missing Svilen Tsonev Andreev- here Sevin Ismail Ali-here. Sezgin Yussain Mehmed- here Silvi Kirilov Petrov - absent Silvia Marinova Nikolova- absent Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- here Stanislav Svetozarov Balabanov- absent Stella Dimitrova Nikolova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev- here Stefan Lubomirov Tafrov- here Stefan Nedelchev Mirev-here Stoyan Alexandrov Mihalev- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Tanner Kadir Turkoglu is absent. Tanner Mehmed Ali-here. Tanya Koycheva Andreeva- here Tatiana Doncheva Toteva- here Temenuzhka Petrova Petkova- here Tihomir Gochev Tenev- absent Todor Baychev- here Todor Stamanov Todorov- here Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Tomislav Peykov Donchev- here Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov- absent Tunjai Ramadan Ozturk here Philip Marinov Stanev- absent Philip Stefanov Popov here Filcho Krastev Filev-- here. Hayri Recepov Sadakov- here Halil Recepov Letifov here Hamid Barry Hamid here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Christian Anastasova Todorova- absent Hristo Bogomilov Terziyski- here Hristo Valeriev Gushkov- absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov- here Hristo Mikhailov Dochev- absent Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- here Tsvetan Ivanov Enchev- here Tsetska Georgieva Bachkova- here Chavdar Borisov Bozhurski- here Julian Belchev Stanev- here Yulian Milchev Nenchev- here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- here 169 MPs are present. We can continue the hearing. Mr. Bikoff, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We want a re-voting procedure, but I will ask that we have an opportunity and explain first why we want a re-vote, which is easier. We want a re-vote because if there is no re-vote and if this point is not accepted, from today the country will enter into a constitutional crisis. We're in a ridiculous situation. There is no mandate holder here for whom this decision is based. There is no candidate for prime minister who has given up for personal reasons! For the first time in the 140-year history of Bulgaria, after they have sworn for Prime Minister Stefan Stambolov, Petko Karavelov, Konstantin Stoilov, Andrei Lyapchev and a number of Bulgarian statesmen, we have come to a point where the candidate for Prime Minister has given up for personal reasons because he did not want to have a debate! We could very easily stand and rub our hands and put you in a situation that is not just you, but the whole country from which there is a very difficult exit in a constitutional crisis that will follow the political crisis and put itself on top of it. We're not doing this! We will vote against this proposal and thus allow it to be adopted so that this first term can be completed, then the procedure will also be completed in the second and third terms. And obviously to go to new elections because the forty-sixth National Assembly, like the forty-fifth National Assembly, fails in its most important task to broadcast the country's governance at a time of health crisis, economic challenges, social challenges, a migrant crisis! Everything that's happening today is happening on this background! We didn't vote to show you... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u28	The weather, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u29	...that you have brought things to a very difficult situation and we will participate not in creating problems, but in solving problems and from now on. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u30	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Either way, we were going to vote again. Please re-vote the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u31	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u32	We're also reading your voice. Vote 166 MPs and one e-mail address 167, 105 plus 1 "106," against 60, abstention 1. The decision's been made. [[National Representative Radomir Cholakov wants the floor.]] For a negative vote? Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, it is ridiculous that the President of the National Assembly is not exactly in this vote and is holding this very meeting, but this is in the context of what I am about to say now. Mr. Bikov, I hope, correctly and convincingly noted that GERB is currently helping and without GERB this vote could not have happened. Colleagues, I can't understand how long it has to go and how many times our colleagues from "There is such a people" have to tell you that they are not here to make government or to have parliament, but to blow up the system?! How many times do they have to say it? And how many times do we have to pretend we didn't hear it and we didn't understand it? So this is what this is about, is there going to be parliamentaryism, or is the political system going to be erased as we know it? Would you like to recall the six questions from the referendum? The six, not the three: majority vote, 120 MPs, one lev subsidy of the political parties, voting only on the Internet on the Internet, election majority of the police bosses. I can't imagine a pό perfidious bomb being planted under this building, and I don't know. Can't you hear that bomb ticking? All that we think are some kind of games and jokes is actually a concept! The coworkers said that yesterday. They have a cause and the cause is to take out the trash! You think they're reading GERB. Didn't you notice that yesterday they started reading you one by one, all of them?! I think the time has come to remember and to realize, and I really do say it to you personally: personally I am surprised how you say all the time: "No GERB! No GERB! No GERB! " - OK, no GERB! Who? With those who want to blow up the political system?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I hope that in the coming days we will show everyone some humility, which GERB shows it, and understand that the entire political system of the country is at stake at the moment. Thank you for your attention! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u34	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Another negative vote? I can't see. We have successfully concluded this item on the agenda, and I congratulate the MPs for finding a really serious solution to a really serious problem so that the constitutional procedure can continue. We continue with the next item on the agenda: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH COSTS 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON: 7.1. BUILDING NATIONAL DETECTION; 7.2. The National Children's Hospital. Please invite Mr. Katsarov. I give the floor to the importers to present the reasons for the hearing. Wait a minute. We expect Mrs. Miteva to join us at some point, but... [[The National Representatives of IHN enter the Chamber.]] I'm gonna have to ask you a little faster, guys. I think we can start now by asking my colleagues to sit quietly in their seats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u35	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Welcome, colleagues! Members of the Parliamentary Group of the National Assembly Stand up BG! We are coming!.. we have initiated this hearing because it concerns one of the most important priorities of every Bulgarian citizen, namely the health of our children. Bulgaria remains still the only country in the European Union that does not have a National Children's Hospital, and at the same time the child mortality in Bulgaria remains at one of the highest levels of 5.1 of 1000 live births. At the same time, the structure of the diseases in Bulgaria, namely: obesity and diseases associated with vision disorders are at the forefront. This largely answers the question: at what level are prevention and prevention practices established in Bulgaria? Almost none. Third is the asthma and diseases of the respiratory system. These diseases are a specific group. They want a consultation with a narrow specialist, they want long-term follow-up. And here I will open the question of the access to highly specialized hospital and hospital care in Bulgaria, namely doctors with specialty of Pediatrics, there is a problem in every district in Bulgaria, but as far as close specialists with pediatric use are concerned, there is a problem. It turns out that the full range of such specialists we have in only two areas in Sofia and Varna, and in areas such as Kyustendil and Yambol there is not one such narrow specialist! In reality, this creates a serious imbalance with regard to the level of medical care provided and access to adequate medical care. It is quite logical that the most children for whom treatment was needed in another area were treated in Sofia, Varna and Plovdiv. And here, of course, we are not just talking about the set of close specialists with pediatrics here we are also talking about access to highly specialised modern medical equipment. And here comes the next problem: all these specialists and medical equipment are actually scattered all over the city. They're not concentrated in a medical facility. It is clear to everyone that paediatric diseases require a multidisciplinary approach, but the conditions in our country do not allow it and our children are really doomed to be moved between remote clinics, remote establishments in search of a particular equipment or specialist in search of adequate medical care. The need for a modern multi-profile hospital to meet these expectations, which will carry out comprehensive prevention, diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of Bulgarian children is more than necessary! But the problem still remains unresolved. I won't go into details about how much time has been lost so far. I'm only gonna go with the most important points. December 2018 the decision to re-open the process of reconstruction of the existing, already declared unfit, construction in the yard of Alexandrovska Hospital is taken. A new constructive investigation follows, an objection by the Chamber of Architects in December 2019, and nevertheless a contract with the consortium of Children's Health is signed for reconstruction of the existing construction. This, of course, led to widespread public discontent, to protests of parents and pediatricians, to the establishment of many NGOs. All of them insist on the same thing for the termination of the Treaty of Reconstruction and holding a new international open competition. On 27 May 2020, former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov said in response and publicly explained that a new building of the future children's hospital would be built. This empty promise lost the Bulgarian children two more years. After all, the issue was referred to the caretaker government and it became clear on 26 July this year that it was ordered by the State Investment Company to initiate a procedure for the termination of the Reconstruction Treaty with the consortium of Children's Health. The hearing of the health minister on this topic aims precisely to clarify the readiness of the Ministry with specific decisions, specific deadlines for their implementation in relation to the announcement of a new public procurement, in relation to the construction of a new construction project in line with the modern construction standards, in relation to the preparation of an in-depth analysis of children's healthcare and its specifics, so that this future children's hospital can actually be designed to meet the needs of children today. However, when we are talking about a matter of such great social importance, it is appropriate not only to concentrate on the building, on its location, characteristics and so on. There are far more important issues, namely what will be the organization of medical activities in this hospital. Because the treatment isn't just the building.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u36	Your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u37	I'm done. What will be the path of the real patient to enter this hospital and then? And in order to address the concerns of many mothers from the state, from other cities in Bulgaria, will every patient from each point of the country be guaranteed equal access to this hospital, will a single communication network be built that connects in real time all clinics and wards so that no child will be left without medical care at two or three o'clock in the night when it is required to be specific, how will the transport of those of them who are in a more severe state be organised? And finally, can you commit to a specific deadline when this future children's hospital can actually accept its first patient? Because we need change now, not in another 10, 20 or 40 years. And what additional measures do you plan to improve children's health until this moment really comes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u38	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please inform the National Assembly of the issues at the hearing. This was a presentation of the subject. [[Heckling]] Uh, two hearings? I'm sorry. You're welcome to present the subject of the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u39	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am very happy that today in this room about the children's hospital there are questions from two parliamentary groups. I think it is high time to put aside our differences and at least on this subject, at least in relation to the welfare of the children, to finally unite, finally Bulgaria to stop being the only European country without the National Children's Hospital. For decades, Bulgarian pediatricians have been waiting for this hospital and for decades listening to the empty promises of every next government that continues not to happen to us. And this hospital is not for Bulgarian pediatricians, this hospital is for Bulgarian children. Because parents go around 14 hospitals where pediatric care is torn apart. To provide complete care for our patients, or pediatricians, or sick children, we are transported by taxis, with ambulances from one hospital to the other. How is it that if a parent has not received the necessary care for his child in one hospital, he will be sure to receive it in the next? So we lose the trust of our patients, so we lose children's lives and it's high time this stopped! I'm just gonna report that we have a building built for a children's hospital, and it's the Children's Pulmology Clinic that was built in 1926. It's almost 100 years ago. Let us be aware of how we are taking care of our children today, because at the end of 2018, then Health Minister Ananiev promised that we will have a children's hospital in the middle of 2020. " One unfulfilled promise that we are waiting to see today. But why didn't that promise come true? Because a ridiculous decision was made instead of building a new building for the children's hospital, to stuff pediatricians into abandoned construction, declared unfit for another 2011, and this decision lost the Bulgarian pediatrics two more years in vain waiting, two years in which we, pediatricians, civil society, parents, insisted that this absurdity should stop and restart the entire process from the very beginning. This contract and this contract were designed so that it could never be implemented. It can never be realized! Whose interests did Minister Ananiev serve this contract, I ask you today from this tribune? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u40	Please be quiet in the hall. Mr. Baychev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u41	After long court battles, after open letters, after petitions and protests, Mr. Borisov finally decided to end these debates and close our mouths so that we wouldn't protest maybe...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u42	Mr. Nenkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u43	...and so decided that this construction would be demolished. I don't know if he knew exactly how this was going to happen, but it's about another conversation. We had a professional discussion last week that we invited experts to do some of the largest hospitals in the world to teach us how complex processes of building these really complex structures happen. They told us in detail how to obtain this process and to complete it so that in the final we have a real children's hospital.................... we need an in-depth analysis of the needs of children's healthcare, a detailed technical assignment, a good investment project, an international competition, a quality performance with clear deadlines. And let us not forget during this time, while we are building the building, to train Bulgarian doctors and nurses to work in this hospital to fill it with content. Because the hospital is not just a building, the National Children's Hospital is a comprehensive concept for the development of children's healthcare and we need to have a clear plan on how it will be financed, how it will function and how this hospital will develop. And what happens finally has to be transparent, under civil control in order to see every action and inaction in this direction, because the most important thing for our children is to be healthy, right, Mr. Ananiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u44	Mr. Nankov, please. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u45	And finally, I believe that if we unite, we can have a hospital that doesn't look like a hospital. It's a hospital where kids feel cozy. A hospital that can treat the world's highest standards, not a hospital that can be a compromise. And here I am opening up the big theme for this structural-determining institution for the children's health care institution - what will be the specific steps in which we will restart the entire process to finally complete it and bring it to a successful conclusion?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u46	Your time, Mrs. Andreeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u47	And one personal request to all of you in this room. Half of them left, unknown why. Let's finally unite in the name of the children and no matter who runs it, let's make this hospital happen. Stop going the wrong way. Whoever goes the wrong way gets in the wrong place. There's no point in wandering in dead ends anymore. Let's start over the whole process and have a children's hospital. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u48	Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have a total of 20 minutes on both hearings.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unfortunately, the subject you asked me to listen to is not happy. This is an ugly picture of a series of violations that I am ultimately in a situation to look for 9 million. BGN, for some reason, where they went, who they were with and for what. I will read to you so that each of you can draw up an opinion on yourself, the timeline of these events, and I will point out all the violations of the law that we have established by collecting the data from 2019 so far. There is no explicit decision of the Council of Ministers to determine this place for the construction of the children's hospital in question. On 9 July 2019, the Minister of Health announced a public contract stating explicitly that the Ministry of Health has an unfinished construction... the concrete skeleton in question, in which construction and reconstruction activities must be carried out. A preliminary execution of the order has been granted. That's July 9th. On August 27th, the consortium in question was established - Children's health - by three companies - Glavbulgarstroy - related persons with Holding - Glavbulgarstroy - who is about to take part in the procurement. On 2 April 2020, an engineering contract was concluded between the Ministry of Health and the company established by "Glavbulgarstroy." No activity has been carried out so far. On 27 May 2020, the Chamber of Investment Design Engineers addressed personally to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and to the Minister of Health, an official letter saying that a contract was signed, without proof of the operational possibility for functional reconstruction of existing buildings, technical and economic appropriateness for the reconstruction of the same, without it being clear how the price was determined, since there is no project for construction, nor design was carried out nor building anything, how has the price of the public procurement been determined? In their letter, they clearly state that the way in which the public procurement was declared and the price of execution was formed is an indication of corruption on a large scale, on the one hand, and on the other, an indication of the lack of protection of the huge public interest provoked by the need for such a National Children's Hospital. I read it verbatim because I fully share the opinion of the Chamber of Architects from investment design. We're moving on. On 21 July 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 21 July 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 21 July 2020 to 25 July 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). So, a contract Instead, three months after the contract was concluded, the Council of Ministers took a new decision setting up a single shareholder company with a capital of 100 million. lv. and Council of Directors Ivan Alexiev, Dobrin Nikolov and Nikolina Sotirova. One month later, on 26 August 2020, the investment company in question was listed in the Commercial Register with the quoted board and paid 30 million. lv. capital according to a certificate issued by First Investment Bank. This is happening on 26 August 2020. It is registered as an investment company as a state-owned company. Two weeks later, on 8 September, the same persons entered into the Commercial Register a new company with the same name as a healthy investment company, but no longer a state enterprise, but a single shareholder company. The second company was signed with the same founding documents, with the same decision of the Council of Ministers and with the same bank bordero, with which the first company was entered for 30 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u50	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u51	Those two companies exist in legal peace to this day. They have the same subject of activity, the same capital, the same composition of their board of directors, the same registered office and address. [[Relations from MP Maria Kapon.]] This has happened to this day. On 1 October, these companies were entered after completing the procedure awarded and therefore an agreement was concluded on 1 October for the replacement of a legal absurdity. The Ministry of Health waives its position as a contracting entity to the construction of a children's hospital and transfers its rights to one of the two single joint-stock companies. He's transferring his rights to a contracting entity. Other changes to the contract were made with the transfer and further changes were made, all the provisions relating to the financing of the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area were repealed, as the initial contract concluded by the Ministry of Finance provided for the design to be paid under the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area. Suddenly, without any explanation, the Ministry of Health is giving up this money from the money of the European Economic Area, there has already been announced a procedure by the Programme of the European Economic Area, at that time, a procedure for financing the project in question has been announced. The Ministry of Health asks the European economic mechanism to end the procedure, to give up this money and to say that it will finance its own design. Why? It's not clear! Perhaps because the controls of the European Economic Area are better than the controls that we make for our own activities. A few days later, in fact, on the same date on which the transfer of the contracting authority's rights to the company on the same date took place, the new contracting entity receives an invoice from the contractor worth 9 million. 213,000. lv. The same day they transferred him his rights, he received an invoice of 9 million. lv. and seven days later these funds were transferred to the contractor. That's not all, because according to the contract... [[People representatives Maria Kapon and Victoria Vasileva are talking to each other.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u52	Mrs. Vasileva, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Vasileva and Mrs. Capon, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u53	According to the contract concluded, this is an advance payment for construction works, which is a second stage of implementation of the contract. The first stage is design. There is no design so far, no design visa has even been issued, but nearly 10 million have been transferred. lv. for construction and repair work. How can any construction and repair work be performed if there is no design? Or we'll build first, then we'll do the project on what we've already built, like some houses are made in our country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u54	We'll pay first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u55	Or we'll pay first, as Mrs. Capon says. It's October 7, 2020. Next is a series of letters between the investment company and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The transfer takes place when Minister Angelov is already Minister of Health. Mr. Ananiev here has nothing to do with this thing. There is a series of letters between the investment company and the then Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works requesting a visa for design. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works on 22 January 2021, I do not know if Mr. Nankov was there, who was at that time, says that the welded property was not reflected in the existing PUP, so, if it is a manifest factual error, to turn to Sofia Municipality. They turn to Sofia Municipality. On February 11th, the chief architect of Sofia Municipality said there was no manifest factual error, such a building does not really exist in the detailed planning plan. The building to be reconstructed does not exist in the detailed planning plan since 2011. In 2011, although there is no longer a subject of the contract, although no design visa has been issued, no action can be carried out to implement the project, on 22 February the State-owned company Zdravna Investment Company is conducting a public contract for selection of investor control and construction supervision. They were carried out successfully. The investment control has been provided to Erol. The same consortium of children's health, who will perform the construction, i.e. it will supervise itself, has been designated for the exercise of construction supervision. On 5 July 2021, the Ministry of Regional Development finally informed the Health Investment Company that it could not issue a design visa or change the detailed planning plan, as this building did not exist in it since 2011 and the Ministry of Regional Development, any minister, whatever its composition, could not return time by 10 years to rewrite this building in the detailed planning plan. A reconstruction cannot be carried out, as is the subject of the contract of a part of a building that does not exist under the Development Plan. The National Children's Hospital in this place could only be implemented if the existing scaffolding is destroyed, designed and built entirely on a new building. This was known to both Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and the health ministers who were involved in this project. This was known to them when this contract was awarded. Why hasn't this thing been taken into account? We don't know. A preliminary investigation has been carried out at the Ministry of Health, there is a report from such a preliminary examination, but this report lacks the final part, and there is no answer to the question of the status of the scaffolding in question. Why? Because if this report had answered that question, there probably wouldn't have been a public procurement. Why is this conclusion lacking? It is not done or it is not convenient to stand in the documents of the Ministry of Health that I do not know. Article 116 of the Public Procurement Act lays down in detail the prerequisites for amending the public procurement contract. Among these opportunities is not a change of the contracting entity. Our official opinion is that the change of the contracting authority of the contract is a violation and a circumvention of the Public Procurement Act. The Council of Ministers, deciding to set up a health investment company as a state company, did not give the Minister of Health the right to change the contracting entity. It has taken such a decision, but it does not include the award or authorisation for the replacement of the contracting entity. It cannot appear because the public procurement law itself does not allow such a procedure to be carried out. In accordance with art. 3 of the contract the contracting entity, the State Investment Company, could have translated up to 130 thousand. lv. the contractor's funds. The consortium of companies of Glavbolgarstroy up to 130 grand. BGN, after issuing a visa for design, in order to be able to start the construction of an ideal project. A design visa is not only then and now it is not issued and cannot be issued. Therefore, if the contract is executed, even those 130 thousand may not be translated. lv. Instead, as I told you, in breach of the contract, the Health Investment Company, which is 100% owned by the Minister of Health, has transferred 9 million. 83,000. BGN 199. more advance payment for carrying out the activity referred to in point 2 The payment was made by decision of the Board of Directors on 7 October. It constitutes a gross violation of art. 17, para. 4 of the company's Statute, of the management contract and constitutes an untrue decision, constitutes a lack of good care and attention and a follow-up of the best interest of the company and the owner of the capital. The decision on the advance payment of other than the basis agreed in such particularly large amounts in the event of a loss reported by the company of 96 thousand. lv. at the time, it contains an indication of the failure to provide good care for management, management and custody and maintenance of the designated cash is a violation of the duties in order to benefit others, and there have been no minor, harmful consequences. The very unjustified payment of an amount in particular large understand creates a reasonable assumption of committing a crime under the Criminal Code and a reason to refer to the prosecution, which we have already done and done. In the course of the verification, we found undoubtedly that the manager of the Health Investment Company Ivan Aleksiev throughout the whole time and is currently the manager of another trading company also with 100% state participation, which is a violation of the Public Enterprises Act. It is in a state of incompatibility "The Law prohibits one person from being in the boards of two state-owned enterprises at the same time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u56	Two salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u57	In view of all these violations, we have submitted all the materials in the case, they are in this pink folder, the specialized prosecutor's office for carrying out a check in the event of any establishment of evidence of violation of the duties of all officials involved in the case. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, the Minister of Health Ananiev, the Minister of Health Angelov and the members of the Board of Directors of the two companies. These materials have been sent to the D.A. for inspection. The company owner of the Ministry of Health is given explicit instructions to take action to return the paid advance amounts of the company because no activity has been carried out against them and given instructions for termination of the contract. Because it is insignificant as a contract, it has remained without an object, it cannot be fulfilled in the form in which it was concluded. This is briefly the factual situation. Ugly painting, ugly painting! I am sure that we will find this money and return it, return it to the state and they will be used for the purpose for which they were previously designated. What we cannot bring back, ladies and gentlemen, is that we cannot bring back lost time for two years. You're asking me when there might be a new children's hospital? If you start anew, we tried to find a suitable terrain for such a children's hospital. The governor and the mayor of Sofia Municipality told us that within Sofia's ring road they cannot provide us with such a suitable terrain. But even if this appropriate terrain is found, it will take six or seven years at least if there are no appeals and other procedures to build such a children's hospital. At the same time, the children who are the victim, they are the real victims of the violations that I described to you from the previous government, the real victims of this scheme are the children, they continue to be treated in some very bad conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u58	Make a note of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u59	Go see them if you doubt what I'm telling you. The rooms are 6 sq. 7 sq. m with two beds, no air conditioning, no bathroom, with one sink, which when you drop the tap, Mrs. Atanasova sprays on the bed sheet. The mother sleeps on the next bed to accompany her child, if it is free, if it is not free, sits in the hallway on a couch, on a stool so she spends the night to be close to her baby. Now they're there at 40 degrees. We're air-conditioned here, they're air-conditioned. Some of them spend the last days of their lives there. This thing can last another five, six, seven or how many years, I don't know? This, in my opinion, is the greatest crime that has been committed. The money, I say again, we'll return it, we'll do whatever it takes, whoever took it. Whether they're in the company or if someone has already benefited from that money, because that's what this job looks like, we're gonna get that money back, but we can't turn back time and we can't undo the evils that we've done to these kids. You're asking me what the possible solution is? I will ask you in your comments then to discuss all this issue. In my opinion, we cannot wait six or seven years and let the children be in these conditions. I suggest you most responsiblely think about this, is it possible that this hospital is a government hospital, we don't need such a hospital, the government doesn't need this thing, MPs don't need this thing, it's an approach and a mechanism that could temporarily, temporarily, if you will, because this is the most luxurious hospital in the country, to whom should we give the most luxurious, if not the sick children? I don't even know if it's a strong word to say...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u60	Your time, Mr. Katsarov, is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u61	...genocide. Let's stop this genocide. I ask you very much, when expressing your attitude to the hearing, to address this issue as well. To give your opinion on how to resolve this issue, because it is a matter of national already, it is not only the Minister of Health. [[Applause from INN, IBBNI and SG.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Since the hearings are absolutely identical, but the procedure is such, I give the floor to representatives first of the "There is such a people" for a question regarding the hearing of Galina Tavalitka and Maria Kapon. Do you have a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, it's hard to talk after what you said. Engineering was and is one of the mechanisms for the expensive, poor, but construction so that the small bullion, the big bullion...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u64	Please, to your question, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u65	...white and so on. In engineering, the thing is... Mrs. Miteva, I have to formulate my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u66	Okay, but don't stray.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u67	No, I'm not. When there is no investment project, it is difficult to determine what budget is needed, what means are necessary to carry out the design and construction. Here the systems introduced with the Public Finance Act and with the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act, namely cost economy and their effectiveness, play a key role. In this regard, it is also my question: have you followed up on everything that has happened, how and whether the mechanisms for financial management and control in the Ministry of Health have been in operation at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u68	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, no such mechanisms have been applied for control. There is no data, information and documents to implement such control mechanisms. There is not even a document in the Ministry of Health that shows that the Minister of Health has agreed to translate the 9 million in question. BGN, because according to the Statute of the company the translation of an amount of such a large amount the company cannot carry out without the consent of the principal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u70	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, do you have a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have listened very carefully to your presentation, but I wish there was more clarity after a project has been stopped and implemented, is there an analysis for future actions? Is there a new concept, a new schedule or a new project for faster action? Is there any idea of another terrain? You said well that you could lose years because you need urban planning, PUP, visa and all the necessary things if there is a new terrain. I ask the question because two weeks ago I was invited to a discussion on the issues of the National Children's Hospital and I welcome the idea of having such a discussion. There was no answer to the question: since there is an idea?? Is there such an idea that a new children's hospital should be built there on six floors instead of 12? Can all clinics, equipment, actions be collected that are necessary? If we have to go the same way again, we will really lose decades. If there's no concept, we'll really lose the tenth. In my distant first years as a pediatrician, the parents of my patients asked this question. Now my patients as parents, I'm a pediatrician, asking the same question. Is there no danger that my current patients will one day ask me the same question? I ask this question not only as a representative of the people, but as a doctor and a pediatrician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u72	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There's no way there's going to be such a concept right now. We find the situation as I have described it to you. At first we didn't know she was at a dead end. We didn't know that it couldn't be fulfilled. I gave the company manager permission to request a design visa, believing that this project could be implemented. Then we learned what I told you. There's no way there's a concept right now. What I can offer you as a solution, I have already done. I suggest that we provide the children with the entire part of the Government Hospital can take over these children, the hospital can retain its multiprofile character, preserve the opportunity to train students from Sofia University. That would give, if you were to make sense of the Government Hospital itself, because it doesn't make any sense. We don't need that. Kids, though, they need it. It can be relatively quickly redesigned, made suitable for them, maintain its multi-profile character. There's an opportunity to build in her yard. There's a stain that can be used to build a whole new hull that only serves the children. It is located in a beautiful park, an opportunity for children to come out, something that is also important from this point of view. I can offer this as an idea to you today. I don't know if you'll like it or not. So I asked you to tell us how you feel about this. We are all in this situation today from the outrageous management of the problem by Boyko Borisov and the two health ministers sitting opposite me. That's the truth, that's the sad truth at this moment. So I can't give you a good word and even promise you something that will please you or make you clap. [[Applause from IHN. Partial applause by IBGNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u74	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. Procedure in the manner of conduct, I presume?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u75	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking the floor for procedure in the manner of conduct. Please, Madam President, note to Minister Katsarov that from this tribune he cannot issue judgments which is lawful or not. He cannot, with insulting qualifications, call fellow MPs or former prime ministers. Regarding your idea, Mr. Minister, because you addressed me personally a moment ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u76	That's no longer the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u77	It's a procedure. Take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u78	It's just a sentence. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u79	Mrs. Atanasova, you will have three more questions to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u80	Dear Minister, I would like to... Yes, I know, Mrs. Miteva. I personally will not take the floor anymore. I would just like to assure Minister Katsarov that the idea of Lozenets Hospital being a children's hospital is not from today...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u81	And it's beautiful.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u82	Yeah, and it's beautiful.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u83	Mrs. Atanasova, this is now an explanation. Please...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u84	Mrs. Miteva, I think this will help the debate and Minister Katsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u85	There is no debate, Mrs. Atanasova, there are questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u86	I would like to say the following, my fellow Members, that a government decision was tabled in 2018. GERB and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (GERB) supported it in the Committee on Health. Everyone else voted against and therefore this government decision failed to exclude a Government hospital from the scope of the Medical Institutions Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u87	Mrs. Atanasova, you're out of procedures. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u88	In that sense... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u89	Mrs. Atanasova, I'm careful what Mr. Katsarov says. I made a remark, including Mr. Georgiev just now. I'll do it when necessary, and Minister Katsarov. Here you are, from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u90	Dear Madam President, Mrs Vice-President, Minister Katsarov, honourable Members! As your fellow party member, I will formulate a question from the beginning, as the issue is so scandalous here I look at two of your colleagues, Minister Katsarov, that I am uncomfortable at the moment to stand on this stand. Our first meeting with you was about this in your office. You remember him when you became Minister. Let's not transfer the problems, Mrs. Atanasova, by formulating my question from the sick head of the healthy................ all rights you had then. You pulled this hospital out of her condition not to be subordinate to the Minister of Health, but you gave up on yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u91	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u92	It's absolutely true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u93	Look at the shorthands!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u94	I remember all the debates and the fact that Minister Ananiev then said that this hospital, if it doesn't reformat, would go bankrupt. We know what happened later. We all have memories here. Let's not... There are organs that deal with this thing, said Minister Katsarov. In this respect, I will not give out any accusations or explanations. There are at least two or three people in this room who know a lot of details about this whole round of events that you've collected in this folder. I would like to ask you a question, as I have said a question, and it has become modern in this National Assembly. My first question is, when you've seen all of what you call a serious violation, which you call a crime almost, when you've approached the D.A., do you have an answer from the D.A.? As your MP, I'm asking you, not as a doctor. Then I'm gonna ask you as a doctor because I found out I wasn't alone, and there's another pediatrician here, thank God, in the gym, and I'm happy about this thing. That's my first question. And the question is: You are telling us what your proposal is and I understand very well that as a minister of the service it is very serious for you to put this question and...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u95	Your time, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u96	...to ask you for a solution. I explained to you in our conversation at the time that Government Hospital can now say it in front of everyone, and yesterday I made a reference to the national strategic...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u97	Mr. Mihailov, you've exceeded your time, please ask for the subquest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u98	...pediatric levels that are... Okay, one sentence. A lot of people were out of time today. For the sake of the cause, I hope you allow this. Only in Sofia the strategic pediatric levels, which are of national importance, are 270. This capacity is not available to Lozenets. I shared this with Mr. Ananiev at the time in a private conversation when he was a minister that this hospital does not have this capacity, but there are other hospitals within the Quadrant of the former ASA-1 of the Medical Academy. This decision can be made very quickly. Have you thought about that? This is my second sub-question from the first part of our discussion. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, I have no response from the prosecution, but I did not expect to receive it so quickly. I guess the investigative actions will take longer than that. What's more, my expectations were that I wouldn't be the Minister of Health for a long time, right? It's not my fault that I'm still in this position, so I have to make decisions like this. I didn't investigate other cases or other hospitals. As you well said, this is something that a regular minister with a long-term vision should be burdened with. The worst thing about this whole thing, again, is that it's being done on the back of the kids and that it was originally known that it couldn't be done. That was clear back then. Elementary is the verification of the things that were established by chance two years later. Obviously, the goal wasn't to build a National Children's Hospital with this project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u101	Thank you, Mr. Katsarov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u102	Minister Katsarov, my question will be very specific. Currently, the executive director of the State Investment Company refuses to follow the instructions of the Ministry of Health to terminate the contract with the consortium of companies. At the moment, "Glavbolgarstroy" continues to be a contractor under the contract for reconstruction of the construction which does not exist in the detailed construction plan. The argument of the executive director of this State Investment Company, with which he refuses to comply with the State's instructions for termination of the contract, is that there is no official decision of the Ministry of Health. Are we facing the case of the Ministry of Health saying that the contract must be terminated, but the State Investment Company, which is still subject to the Ministry of Health, is refusing to comply with these instructions? Is there a specific order issued by the Minister of Health to terminate the reconstruction contract and why the termination of this contract is delayed? When will this contract actually be terminated? What will be the fate of the State Investment Company and its directors and will this State Investment Company continue to have the capital of 30 million already invested in it? What will happen to the remaining 70 that must be implemented in this State Investment Company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Andreeva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Andreeva, written instructions are given to the manager of the company to terminate the contract and to request the advance payment back. He didn't follow that instructions. What will follow is an order for the replacement of the executive director of the company in question and of the entire board of directors. As far as the funds are concerned, it has a capital of 30 million. The other nine were translated to the contractor of the company. There will be a termination of the contract, take the money back. By the end of August, another 50 million must be paid into the company's capital, i.e. it will have 80 million. These funds must and can only be used for the needs of children's healthcare and for the needs of a new National Children's Hospital. How exactly, in what mechanism, in which way this will be carried out is probably an issue that will be on the agenda of the next health minister, which I hope you will soon choose.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u105	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I have to start with not a very good finding that Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union without a National Children's Hospital. I say this because if we accept the fact that there are about 60 thousand born in Bulgaria each year. newborns up to 18 years, this means that there are 1 million. 80,000 patients who would take advantage of this Multifunctional Children's Hospital if needed. Modern medicine is a multidisciplinary undertaking that requires the concentration of both human resources and modern equipment so that sick children do not go to different medical institutions but receive highly specialized medical care within a hospital. However, a retrospect is needed very briefly about what happened over the years. This effort to build a National Children's Hospital began at the time of socialism, continued in 2004, when the then ruling majority decided to enter into a contract with an Austrian bank for an investment contract, anyway this undertaking ended with failure. Next, something that is extremely important, I want to mention. In 2011, a detailed development plan for the area of the entire Alexandrovska hospital or on this square we are talking about, with a planned construction for a new building of the National Children's Hospital with a height of 20 meters, which means that if you proceed to the construction of a children's hospital according to the contract, there should be only three floors left of this building that is currently. Next, in 2019 the Ministry of Health announced a public contract for the National Children's Hospital related to the undeveloped building. In 2020, an engineering contract was concluded, which provides for the reconstruction of the existing building and not the demolition of the old building. A few days ago, the Ministry of Health gave instructions to their investment company to terminate the contract. Based on this chronology, I would like to ask the following two questions: First of all, is there a legitimate way to realize the declared intention to demolish the old building and build a new building? Secondly, can the subject of the contract be replaced by a statement by a senior civil servant, whether he is a minister or a prime minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, the project cannot be implemented within the framework of this contract. It was designed to reconstruct the existing building. It can be executed in the same place if this contract is terminated and a new contract is issued which includes the destruction of the existing scaffolding and the construction of a new one in this place. As far as your second question is concerned, could someone, he and the Prime Minister, change things legally with one statement? This question is rhetorical: no! But in fact, we are all witnesses that this has been a long-standing practice in the management of the previous prime minister. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u109	Thank you. And stand up BG! Do you have a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u110	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up BG! Your idea and your proposal that the Government Hospital be used as a building for the National Children's Hospital. Our position is consistent against privileges and we really do not think that MPs, ministers and other senior officials need a special hospital, with special treatment and with special treatment. Therefore, my question to you is: in what deadlines can the conversion of a Government Hospital into a National Children's Hospital begin? [[(Comments from GERB: There is no government hospital anymore.]] How much is it gonna cost? Are funds needed to be set aside in an urgent manner, as this Parliament, no matter how long it will exist, will have to undertake the budget update if we want there to be enough money for healthcare, pensioners, for social purposes and for business? Do you have such estimates? As Chairman of the Revision Committee, I would like to say that we have received signals regarding the National Children's Hospital and the public procurement for its construction. Indeed, an impossible procurement: reconstructing existing buildings which are declared unfit for use and designated for collapse, which do not appear at all in the detailed planning plan, in addition to the translation of an advance of 9 million. lv. in violation of the contract. This is indeed an outrage, and there must be a corresponding responsibility here. I am not so optimistic about the way you will be able to successfully return the 9 million in a reasonable time. BGN, because I suspect that the scheme, which was applied here, was applied in the case of the Automages and in the case of Montajs, such advances should not be guaranteed by bank guarantees in order to make it difficult for the recovery of the money. Most likely this happened with insurance or without any collateral at all. These are our questions: how much money do we need to include the children's hospital in the budget update and will you provide the audit committee with the relevant materials?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Manolova! Yeah, as you suggested, that's exactly how it is. There is no bank guarantee issued, there is insurance on the advance amount so illegally paid, amounting to 9 million. lv. If the D.A.'s office doesn't cooperate, it might be a difficult question to get that money back. But I have no reason not to expect the prosecution in this case to act actively, as it is not about politics, it is ultimately about our children. The decision we are talking about may take place within a relatively short period of time, incomparably shorter time than the beginning of the entire procedure. As additional funds can also be used those who are in the Health Investment Company at the moment, that is, there is no need to vote by the National Assembly any additional amount for these needs. In the context of this whole conversation, I would like to add that, following the amendment of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which we also had to do during these two months, we have signed as a priority the reform of child health, so that the things we are talking about do not affect only Sofia and a hospital, but affect children's healthcare throughout the country. A significant amount of money is also provided for investments in children's healthcare throughout the country, because even if we build such a children's hospital, children in the country will continue to be treated in other hospitals. Not all children will be treated here. As for the Commission you are in charge of, I, as Minister, urge your committee to also take up the case and investigate the offences committed. Thus, among other things, we will have more publicity and fewer opportunities for interested parties to cover up crimes committed. I will be very grateful and take this opportunity to personally give you the documentation folder that you will take in the appropriate order.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u113	Thank you. This has exhausted the first round of questions. Colleagues, do you want me to take a break on the grounds of art. 58, para. 3 of the Rules, or shall we proceed with the first questions of the second part of the hearing? [[(GERB lines:]] You want a break? [[Replys: No, let's continue.]] We interrupted for a while, so... [[(Reply from the National Representative Tatiana Doncheva:]] Okay, I'm gonna call a 15-minute break at 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u114	We continue with the second hearing and the first questions from the parliamentary groups. Let me just ask you, colleagues, for masks. Let's start putting them back into the complicated situation in the country. The first question from the parliamentary group has such a people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u115	Dear Madam President, dear Minister Katsarov, ladies and gentlemen! I do not intend to discuss the necessity of this hospital, of the needs of Bulgarian healthcare and in particular of children's healthcare, but I would like to explain some things from the status when the decisions are made. So my question is...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u116	Mr. Kirilov, can you put your card on it? Yvelin Stoyanov is on the dashboard.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u117	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u119	Has a pre-project study been carried out on the possibility of building a children's clinic within the Government Hospital and whether it is intended to be done? My sub-question regarding this question is: has an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the two projects been carried out on the territory of Alexandrovska Hospital, the other one in the territory of the Government Hospital? I think these are extremely important details that will help make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u120	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kirilov! There is no such analysis, comparative analysis of any places for the construction of the children's hospital. I mentioned in my initial hearing that there was only a legal analysis of the existing terrain and an unfinished building in the region of Alexandrovska Hospital, and I said and shared with you about the conclusion that this analysis was not complete, as it was very easy to find that practically no reconstruction could be carried out there. Only a new building could have been built there. In other words, what has been done is not probably done properly. This is what happened by accident or on purpose, so the result is today. If it has been done, as you say, that these things should be done in advance, analyze all possibilities and all aspects, are there parking lots, is there any possibility of additional and easy call of consultations by other hospitals, communication with transport and other communications, possibility of parks, for parking, for urban environments, for walks, for rest, and so all these things, if taken into account in the predestined and legal analysis, there wouldn't have been assigned this project at all. But I will once again express my conviction: this could have been done, but it has not been done, which raises the question why, since it was known that there could not have been done in this way, this project was implemented. Now we are at the starting stage, we can do such comparative research and analysis and take further action to solve the problem. Unfortunately, too much time has been lost and too much suffering has suffered for this thing, but it is not our fault.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u122	Thank you. Mr. Ananiev, come in from GERB-SDSS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u123	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dr. Katsarov! The construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital was one of my priorities when I was Minister of Health and not only my priority, it also became the priority of the government because the government, with its decision, declared the site of national importance. Many tens and hundreds of young families supported the project to be built for the National Children's Hospital. With them we had a lot of conversations, pointed out a place where the hospital will be made and showed them, Mr. Minister, the things that you did not share with your colleagues. A preliminary study was carried out by the Ministry of Health itself. It shows some defects that this building has, but they are overpowering, and this could happen within the budget and the time that we anticipated for the construction of this children's hospital. I would like to tell you that, at the same time, the company that has won the construction of the National Children's Hospital, in its technical assignment, I will also quote, as you like to quote, has said the following: The contractor has indicated in his technical proposal that, in addition to a constructive survey that has made the Ministry of Health, the contracting authority will also carry out further investigations of the existing situation of the construction and, based on all the information collected and provided, will propose the best and most constructive solution for the construction, including construction and reconstruction activities, strengthening and/or building a new construction in order to bring the same state of conformity of Eurocode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u124	The weather, Mr. Ananiev. Time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u125	It doesn't matter! So many false things have been said. I'm sorry, but the Minister of Health is a perfect manipulator.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u126	You will have two more questions for Minister Katsarov. Just finish your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u127	Many untruths have been said, Madam President, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u128	Yes, I understand, Mr. Ananiev, but you will be able to express your attitude at the end after asking all the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u129	Just one more sentence before I ask the question. It has been mentioned that the materials are in the prosecution's office. Great, that's the organ that needs to be ruled. However, I would like to say to Dr. Katsarov that we have respected the entire procedure of all objections that have been made to the moment when we were developing the procedure.. passed through the KPC, the KPC rejected the objections of the mourners, then passed through the Supreme Administrative Court, he also confirmed that the procedure was going in the right direction, we sent a letter to the Public Procurement Agency whether or not the contract should be changed and they clearly and categorically said that the amendments were such that things could continue in the framework of this contract. If anyone has taken any money, the prosecution will prove it, but given your team, I think I can safely say: "The thief said: Hold the thief!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u130	Mr. Ananiev, you've exceeded your time twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u131	That's how it happened this time. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u132	And he gave a qualification that you accused the minister of just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u133	Well, it is, and it will be proven by the next question to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u134	You're entitled to two more.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u135	My questions are as follows: one question with one sub-question. What penalties and costs will the company pay for the activities and works for the construction of the children's hospital? Do you purposely liquidate the state-owned trading company that implements the project, and how will you explain to the public the millions lost due in the event of termination of the contract with the company that won the competition? These funds, by my information, are somewhere...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u137	...about five million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u138	It's been over five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u139	How much more time and money in health care... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u140	Mr. Ananiev, I beg you very much, let us not abuse time. [[Heckling]] Five minutes and 30 seconds already.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u141	Last sentence: how much time and how much money will be spent and how many children's lives will go because of this decision? [[Strong noise and lines from ISN, IBGNI, knocking on banks from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u143	In 2024, she was supposed to be ready... [[The President shall exclude the speaker's microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u144	Please, Mr. Ananiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u146	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, I do not understand which of the two investment companies you are asking me about, which you registered with the same decision of the Council of Ministers and with the same bank brothel, with the same board of directors, seat, address of management and subject of activity? Which one did you ask me about? [[Heckling]] With regard to penalties, no penalties are due for the simple reason that the contract concluded is null and void, it is without the object of activity. Regarding the return of the money, they will be returned in full because no activities have been carried out. They could not be carried out because they did not even have a design visa issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u148	Check this out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u149	And regarding the issue of the design visa, let us also clarify that the refusal to issue a design visa was made by your government. The first rejection is from him. Sofia Municipality, whose mayor is representative of your political party, and the chief architect, has also refused to build such a building. There's no politics in this thing. There is only a scheme here, a scheme implemented that originally knew that no children's hospital could be implemented. This has happened all along. This is the ugly finale of this painting in which you freely or inadvertently participated. I know what situation you were in as Minister of Boyko Borisov, I can imagine. I can imagine and perhaps you regret this situation, but it is what it is, and it will be held responsible for this job. I hope so! Not only penal, but both political, and public, and civic responsibility to all those children who suffer and continue to suffer. That's the worst responsibility you're gonna have.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u150	Because of you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u151	Thank you, Mr. Katsarov. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u152	Mr. Ananiev, your card is standing here next to Dr. Katsarov. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! We are still in the field of questions and it seems to be enough. Influenced by Professor Kirilov's question, I will also ask you, repeating again that you are hardly the person who should answer all these questions as interim Minister of Health, but it is really very important to do as quickly as possible and in view of the interests of the nation's detailed analysis of the question: is it possible to rebreathe, and I will take into account in my regard the overall debate at the end of this questioning to you, all national children's beds strategically for Bulgaria, in one building? Every step that halfway through will solve this issue, Mr. Katsarov, Dr. Katsarov, I am telling you this as a pediatrician and as a person who has dealt with intensive medicine throughout his life, it will again be a non-solving matter. Just move one problem from one place to another and say that we've given a nice building, that we don't need this hospital and we're gonna make it a children's hospital, it won't solve the problem. I suppose you'll answer me, as Professor Kirilov did, that you don't have calculations. Please, even if you stay a week longer, let's start this analysis. This is my urging question to you so that we can really ultimately get a solution that is rightly said by you. If we leave here, I wasn't, I wasn't able to, and I was invited by Dr. Andreeva to participate in the debate I will make a formulation of my question, Madam President, but it was not really effective that debate. It has become a presentation of how to build a children's hospital, how to build it in one country, in another country, and we need a practical solution to the issue. It is clear to us that an international competition, a public procurement, a design, a construction will really take not four, seven, but may take ten years, which will not be in the interest of the nation. So, answering this question, it is a bit rhetorical, I hope you will answer that you will make efforts in the team of the Ministry now.. this team of the Ministry will be conducted such an analysis, which Professor Kirilov also mentioned to you. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u153	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mikhailov, the answer, of course, is: yes! We will make what is in our capabilities and in the time we have, this analysis to be completed, that is, it is being done now and to be completed as far as it is in our ability to do so. I also had a meeting with the doctors from the current children's hospital, and with Mitev I visited her, I met her, I talked, I discussed the matter with them, I discussed the issue with other interested parties, that is to say there is a start to the realization of this process. Other than what I've already made, I can't make you right now. If you don't like this, find a new government and find another solution. I can give you this decision right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u155	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u156	Dear Madam President, congratulations on the wonderful conduct! Dear Minister, congratulations on your great work! I'm part of the group for a real children's hospital long before I was an MP. This group has already issued a petition, signed by 88 thousand Bulgarian citizens, and may already be more, I have not checked them in a few days. A little more than a year ago, Professor Ananiev here against me has invited the Group for a real children's hospital to a discussion at the Ministry of Health. On his part, he had called experts, professors, and for an unknown reason there were representatives of "Glavbolgarstroy" there, although at that time there was no signed contract with them. That was very strange, and there were engineers and people who built this former building. I want to tell you that this is one of the most disgraceful meetings I've ever been to. We were called, we were called up all the time, and the main thesis of the people against us is these mastite professors and the engineer who, as a sailor, defended his building, was: a better bird in the hands than an eagle in the sky. We have to do it now, and that's why this building is very important. After the meeting in an informal conversation, the representative of Glavbolgarstroy confirmed to me that to repair this building will not go less money than if a new children's hospital of Rosna Polyana is made, which is a living crime. I was under the impression that in the end the whole idea was actually just to go to a firm and this firm stood next to us and was invited, although with it there was no signed contract, and now nine million have been transferred. I mean, I understand the idea of a government hospital is good, I understand the idea, but I want to warn you that this is not... [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] Yeah, just a few sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u157	I can see the weather, but I think everyone's out of time a little bit.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u158	Kiril Ananiev spoke for five and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u159	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u160	Give me a minute. You won't regret it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u161	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u162	It's not a good idea to do temporary things, you know? The last real children's hospital in Bulgaria was made in 1929, 95 years have passed. We should not do things because now it is important and fast, which already at the moment of its construction are demodized. Notice, our group is called the Real Children's Hospital, not just the Children's Hospital. So we are very opposed and we believe that we should start by analyzing the needs. I want to ask you: is there such an analysis, if there is, what is it stepping on, what data? Because you yourself said that in the National Health Fund, the data that is entering is not the actual data. If there is this analysis, is it shared with the Association of Architects, with the Association of...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u163	Thank you, Mr. Peykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u164	...engineers and pediatricians? And lastly, if you're looking for a plot, it doesn't have to be in Sofia. For example, you can look at Plovdiv, it is very centrally located. If the current mayor doesn't give you one, I sincerely hope that the next one will be from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, he will find a wonderful plot. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u165	Thank you, Mr. Peykov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The idea of being in Plovdiv is also not a bad idea, I have nothing against it. As far as whether a legal analysis is concerned, yes, such analysis has been carried out. The Ministry of Health has such an analysis and it is done by the Pediatrics Society. I had a meeting with Professor Pilosoff and his colleagues and they provided me with the analysis that was done. This is an analysis of the needs of pediatric aid on a national scale to justify the need to build such a new National Children's Hospital, so there is such an analysis.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u167	Thank you, Mr. Katsarov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u168	Don't forget to protect Plovdiv!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u169	The intercessions have begun. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u170	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I will continue, Mrs. Capon, with the proposal for Plovdiv, but our children should not wait for the plot for two more years, otherwise I, as a person in the region, agree to be in Plovdiv. Plovdiv is also centrally located. In view of the short time, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues and the whole public, it is true that the material and technical base is important, and in this case it is the hospital with equipment, with equipment, with everything, but there is another major aspect. It is that we have been talking for decades already about health reform, and it is more than obvious that a very serious reform is also needed in children's healthcare. You are a minister of service for a short time, so it is unlikely that, if it is within the prescribed time frame, you could implement such a reform, but what is the position of the Ministry of Health, is there a concept, is there a set goal and a time horizon to have a reform in children's healthcare? I will address you and the entire public with the following data. Currently we have 1735 pediatricians working, and 30% of them are in retirement age. Another statistic, Factology: 5 years ago, 10 years a year ago, on a specialty exam, Pediatrics appeared to 50 of our colleagues, I'm also a doctor, and now there's 5 of them. The prospect, the trend is more than worrying, and we need to be very concerned, to be an accent, as we were looking for infectiouss, resuscitators against the background of the Kovid crisis, so here we need to act urgently. At this point, however, unfortunately, we do not see an idea of reform, we do not see a concept, we see no goals! You need to do a good analysis and take the necessary steps. Otherwise, for the hospital, yes, there must be a hospital like this. The first pit was made in 1978, more than 40 years have passed since then, in 2003 the idea appears again, 2014 too, and now we are in a whirlpool and there is no way out of the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u171	The weather, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u172	Yes, I'm finishing, Madam President. An exit must be found for the construction of a hospital that meets all criteria. More importantly for me and my question is actually: is there an idea for reform in child health and in general in the healthcare system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u173	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Chakarov, screaming for a reform of the health system, there is, not just a need. I found the health care system severely debalanced, it is also such at the moment between hospital and outpatient care, emergency care, between the different specialties within the system, between the different regions. The health system is in very poor condition. The method of funding is centralised, is not linked to the quantity and quality of services performed, a pre-distribution of money is made, which has created a system that is aimed at absorbing pre-defined funds rather than providing affordable and quality medical services. As a result, we are the country with the highest overall mortality rate, with the shortest life expectancy, with child mortality almost twice as high as the average in the European Union, with patients paying for half of their medical care. We are leading with regard to mortality from curable diseases and preventable mortality from various diseases, in general we are at the head of all negative rankings in terms of our medical-statistical indicators. These are objective data showing what it is and proving what the state of the health system is. It is not because I say it, and these are the evidence that it really is. So the need for reform is urgent. In addition, what we have been able to do in two months, nor can we implement a reform, it also requires agreement from the National Assembly, in two months we can make some minor adjustments, what we have succeeded and I hope will help the next government is to put into the Recovery and Sustainability Plan these most pressing reforms, first of all, child health reform and to plan funds up to 2024 to support this reform. Because I fully agree and solidarity with you that even if you build a children's hospital, there will be children's healthcare in other cities, and in other hospitals and we can't think only about it, we have to think about them too. That's why it's thoughtful. We have laid the foundations, we have created conditions for the next government to have the opportunity to implement such a reform, if there is, of course, the political will and desire for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u175	Thank you, Mr. Katsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u176	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u177	Here you go. I didn't even talk. [[Heckling]] Maybe!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u178	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Minister! Madam President, stop giving people the opportunity to bring in nine ravens of water so that they don't lose their Government Hospital and one day the children can be treated in better conditions...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u179	Mrs. Zaykova, this is not the way to lead. I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u180	...is important. [[(Reply from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov:]] Let our children go there temporarily.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u181	Mrs. Zaykova, you have two more questions, so you can come out and ask it on behalf of the parliamentary group. Thank you. What about a government hospital? She's a former government hospital now. There have been changes in the law, so there is no such hospital. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS:]] Let's keep going. Get up. Get up. Get up. We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u182	Mr. Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen! I will continue the conversation in the same spirit, moving the focus from the National Children's Hospital to the real problems of child health, because we now need reform, we now need changes. It is clear to everyone that the conditions under which our children are being treated are more than worrying, they are just terrifying. We really need additional funding not just for one hospital, but for all the pediatric wards in the country to support them, to change the material and technical base, to modernise the equipment. It is clear that we will get justice on where some money went, who took it and who took it, it will not really solve the problems of the children, so my question will be a little more specific. In the reforms you have laid the basis for, do you foresee additional funding with a view to postgraduate qualification, attracting additional specialists in the field of child health, and also, as it is often necessary, unfortunately, to receive adequate medical care and modern treatment in certain complicated cases, to seek treatment abroad? Is there in your view of reforming children's health programs, according to which in leading Bulgarian hospitals not only in one, they will be able to be invited so that they can participate in the medical and diagnostic process and recognised specialists from European clinics so that this creates conditions for a more adequate medical assistance really at a global level and international exchange of experience and knowledge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u183	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Tavalica, yes, we have made changes to the Regulation on specialization and accreditation of medical institutions which carry out the specialization of doctors. I hope that within a week we will publish them in the Official Journal. The amendments are in a direction that allows all specialist doctors to receive subsidies from the state, not just as it is now, to those within a quota called a state contract. We've made a restructuring of the specialization model that will allow us this thing the state to pay the remuneration of all specialist doctors. This I hope will help the process of specialization, but I also realize that it is not enough. If we want to raise interest in the specialty of pediatrics, there is not enough change in the Ordinance of Specialization. A number of other changes related to the organisation and the improvement are needed, the key issue of funding pediatric aid. Without this thing, it's not gonna work. This should be done as a change if we want to have more willing pediatricians, not just five, as Dr. Chakarov says. One of the keys is perhaps the most important to solving this issue is improving the financing of this activity, which, for obvious reasons for all of us, is what is at the moment. I will use the answer to the question, Madam President, to say: yes, it is. There is no Government Hospital, but there is a decision of the Council of Ministers with which Lozenets Hospital is designated to serve the Council of Ministers, the National Assembly and the diplomatic contingent. For this work she has separated 116 from her beds. In the first six months of these 116 beds along this line nine people were treated. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u185	Thank you, Minister Katsarov. We are moving on to the second questions from the hearing of Tavalicka. There is such a people? No question. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in the stage of the hearing it became clear that we all expressed concern for the children of Bulgaria, concern for their rapid and adequate treatment. You have even used the definitions for which I have reacted, but in my procedure I have stated that we are ready to support your decision in relation to the restructuring of the University Hospital "Lozenets" in a childish one, and I reminded that in 2018, and before that, only at the stage talks about transferring a haematological clinic into the composition of this hospital are conducted such debates, and not only, a decision has been made by the Council of Ministers. But let's go back to today. Answer my question: is there an obstacle to you as principal of the University Hospital Lozenets, which by decision of the Council of Ministers is a sole shareholder company to the Minister of Health, that is, you are sole management of this medical establishment through the capital of the state in it, to make such a decision, and why, until now, after over two months of service Minister of Health, have you not taken such steps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u187	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, the question in whose prerogatives this decision is being taken is rhetorical. It is in the prerogatives of the Minister of Health. Why GERB party, which ruled the country for 10 years, has not taken this decision, is also a rhetorical issue. Why GERB party, instead of making this decision, has made a scheme for impossible construction, an inexecutable construction of a children's hospital, is also a rhetorical question. I inherited this by coming as Minister of the Service. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] At the end of my term of office, I understood, collected all the documents and saw the scheme you have drawn up, took action to end a small contract and offered your attention to today's hearing one of the possible solutions. This is not within the powers of the National Assembly, but on these issues it is good to have consent from all political parties, because my term ends, you will also participate in the next National Assembly, you will choose in the current new government and you must follow this policy. These are things that are generally good to do long-term, Mrs. Atanasova. You've had plenty of time. What you've done is a scheme on the back of sick children.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u189	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u190	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! Watching closely the course of the debate, two conclusions begin to appear. One is that we, from the debate on a children's hospital, can now get to space debates, not just children's health care, but to include overall health care, which is not the task of this questioning, in my opinion, and, the second, that you may be heading to the stand, because in two months you have not made decisions that have not been taken for 10 years. Indeed, this approach is very complicated with the two questions that have united. This happened very recently, and there may not be any more questions. I have a specific question for you as a professional. In the analysis you started to do, as you said, did you take into account that what she said already came out Mrs. Atanasova, there was a timid experience of GERB, which they gave up then, to move the children's oncology to the government hospital. How effective this would have been, is another question, knowing the entire vertical structure of the Government Hospital. Very few people here in the room know how many specialists a cancer patient needs, let alone a child, let alone a transplanted child, but my question is: when you talk about concentration of units, do you mean at all costs this unit, which is strategic for Bulgaria, to be incorporated within this children's hospital, which you are planning to be created possibly within the Lozenets? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u191	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, what I have done here before you today was a series of violations, abuses and violations. For two years a project which was originally known that it could not be realised, which, in breach of the contract and the law, paid advance 9 million money and which two years later had to be terminated simply because there is no other legal option. This is today's situation. What else do you want the Minister of Health to do in this situation, other than take action to collect state money, to terminate a treaty that is completely in violation of the legal procedure, and to offer, if possible, your attention to any alternative decision that I have made? There is nothing more I can do as minister of the office in the short term that I have. Accept it however you want, understand it however you want, this is my position, these are the possibilities of the time and position that I have had at this moment, that I stood up and told you today, honourable Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u193	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u194	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! The termination of this disgraceful contract was the only correct solution that could ensure that someday we have for the Bulgarian children National Children's Hospital. Let's make it clear that we're not doing a hospital for the next five or ten years, we're making an institution that sets pediatric standards for the next 50 to 100 years. But as a doctor who has spent six years of his life in the Specialized Children's Hospital, I will tell you that the conditions there are no good at all.. are neither good for my fellow pediatricians, nor for parents, nor for children, and I understand the concerns that there is nothing more permanent than temporary solutions. It also worries me not to make a temporary decision to become permanent, but we have to take care of our children and that should happen soon. When I say soon, I mean for the next few months. The only way out of this situation that I, as a pediatrician and as a mother, see is for the children to really move to a government hospital, which I admire the Ministry of Health for thinking about it as a possible option. In the pediatrics on the same floor there is one toilet, the mothers sleep in chairs, even the steam room does not stop and when April in the rooms itself is 40 degrees. Do you know the conditions under which children are treated? It's inhuman, understand, it's inhuman! We have to solve this problem now! I fully support Minister Katsarov, I cooperate with what I can and I really invite us to have a very good structural analysis which wards can move, whether the entire specialized hospital for children's diseases...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u195	Your time, Mrs. Andreeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u196	...will he move to a government hospital and go to child's oncochemtology, is it possible for children's surgery to move? These are my questions: which structures will be moved so that we can at least partially respond to the complex care of our children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u197	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Andreeva, I cannot go into detail at this hearing in which department and which premises will be occupied if they are occupied at all. This is a proposal which, if approved, if widely accepted and supported, can also be analysed in detail by experts such as yourself by people who have worked in pediatric aid. I'm not the guy to determine which ward, which structure to go exactly. This is not the minister's role, this is the role of specialists such as yourself of experts to determine these things. If this is achievable, the Minister will do his part of the engagement. My personal impression is that this is completely achievable. From the data I have on hospitals, on the structures that you shared, this is completely achievable. It is a matter of detailed structural analysis to do this and to do it within the appropriate time limits. It is clear that this is not something that can be realized in a day, but I also share the deadline that you said. Yes, this can be realized within months....three, four, five or six, as needed.................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u199	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Come in, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would like to continue on the thesis that has been commented by colleagues just now. It is obvious that a serious, structural and functional analysis of the needs for further development of children's healthcare is needed. Perhaps there is such an analysis and it is even more necessary because demographic trends show that there will hardly be an increase in birth rates in the coming years. From this point of view, the volumes of clinics to be provided in this National Hospital should be taken into account. On the other hand, if there is no comprehensive analysis of the characteristics of the individual clinical units and of the individual diseases, it is difficult to predict what the volume should be, the structure and functionality of the clinics necessary for the treatment of children. During all these years, while the saga of the National Children's Hospital continued, there were two important questions. The first is: is there funding for this National Children's Hospital? And the second question that has been up to date over the years is: should a scaffold be demolished, or should a new national hospital be built? My question relates to this: are there answers to these questions to date? I know there is funding available, but from now on, how can this funding come into use in terms of new realities?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u201	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, it is undeniable that such an analysis should be carried out, it is certainly not the work of the National Assembly. I suggest we don't try to do it here from this tribune. I hope, once we have returned the illegal advance on the unfortunate project to build this children's hospital, once we have recovered the 9 million, there will be sufficient funds to support a project to build such a new children's hospital. Whether this will be based on the restructuring of an existing hospital with building next to it, or the completion of a new whole new hospital, are different options of the same solution. We will repeat once again: in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, we have placed funds for reform, including funds to support young doctors who specialize in Pediatrics. We have staked, including the construction of a proton accelerator, and our intention was to be part of the new children's complex, from the new children's hospital. Whether he's going to be at the level of Government, or elsewhere, his place is there with child's oncohematology. This is what we could have done in the short time we had the opportunity as Minister of Health and as a team of the Ministry of Health to do on the topic of treating our children.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u203	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Come on in, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. Today we have seen what emancipation is and how a management of GERB can be explained, but I will talk about it at the end. For colleagues from Plovdiv to say that for joy in St. The best for our children and haematological patients is being built on the initiative of volunteers and on the basis of a very good donation action. The development of a comprehensive pediatric and oncohematological complex. So at least one small step has been taken and maybe this is the step we should be thinking about when it comes to the solution why should this be where there is a hospital? But you know, Mr. Minister, in the break, I made a quick reference, and I want you to confirm to me once again what I found out about the two companies. Confirm to me that what I see through the Register are the same documents. Here I want you all to hear: with the same decision, with the same Bordero, which is seen in the 30 million trade register, two different companies are registered! I'm sorry, but this is a scam! Who allows themselves in the Trade Register to register these two companies with the same documents? This is not about the subject that we are discussing at all. I ask you to confirm, because what I see is that in the beginning they have the same composition of the Board of Directors Ivan Aleksiev, Dobrin Konstantinov and Nikolina Sotirova, after which it is evident that they have made a change. Here's the question: where's the money? Which one is the money being taken to? Because here, at the moment, it's about 30 million and where to translate the next 50 by that logic?! To repeat, if someone has not understood: two companies have been registered with the same Bordero, one as a single shareholder company and another as a shareholder.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u205	Time, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u206	Please confirm me, because what I am now telling you is a double-state fraud, and on the part of the Commercial Register. So maybe I didn't find out?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u207	Your time, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u208	I've looked in the records and it's outrageous to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u209	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kapon, yes, I confirm: on 26 August 2020, a legal entity named "Healthy investment company for children's hospital" is listed in the Trade Register with unique identification code 206207278, with headquarters and address of the management city of Sofia, Center of Hygiene, Blvd. "Academic Ivan Evstatiev Gesov" No 15 and Board of Directors in the composition: Ivan Alexiev, Dobrin Konstantinov, Nikolina Sotirova, with capital 100 million, from which he contributed 30 million, according to the outturn No 14912 of August 25 of First Investment Bank. On 8 September the second commercial company with the same certificate of First Investment Bank and on the basis of the same Decision No 3 of the Council of Ministers, was entered in the Commercial Register with the name of "Healthy investment company children's hospital "EAD" with Bulstat 206218659, with the same seat and address and Board of Directors, with the same certificate of paid capital, with the same subject of business, with the same statutes. These two companies are present in this way and so far. This is one of the serious violations that we found during the procedure, among other things a serious violation of the change of the contracting authority to a contract with an impossible subject of execution, of payment of an advance for construction and repair works before there is any design before there is even a design visa. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u211	Thank you. Please, no yelling from the hall. The second questions for the hearing begin. There is such a people? I can't see. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Katsarov, I'm listening to the debate here and every question they ask you is starting to look a little bit like that Romanian hero who used to say that cucumber has 99% water. All this we have understood, only that I have a specific question for you: for these more than two months, in which you are a minister, to tell us what are your specific actions and actions with facts that you have taken for children's healthcare in Bulgaria, and not just your findings, observations, wishes, directions, feelings, views, opinions and so on? Specifically, what have you done for children's healthcare in Bulgaria? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u213	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u214	And secondly, do you remain true to your words that healthcare, and in particular children's healthcare, must be an economy to profit from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u215	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, for the two months and little in which I am Minister of Health, I was able to close a deal that has all indications of a corruption deal and block the construction of a National Children's Hospital, and offer a faster and more adequate solution for this. In this sense, for these two months I have done more than you have done the GERB party, with three former health ministers sitting opposite me, have done for the last 10 years, because apart from concocting one such deal, nothing good has happened to children's healthcare in those years. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u217	Mr. Mihaylov, BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! You said earlier when you were talking about your proposal that you had some of yours, as I understand it, a personal analysis and an idea of the possibilities for placing the National Children's Hospital in Lozenets. Would you really share what this idea of yours rests on? How do you see it as the principal of this move, as this is an extremely important issue in light of what you are proposing at the time of the National Assembly? to proceed in the coming days or weeks to initiation, or to bow the country's governance to such a decision. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u219	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Katsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihaylov, I said that I have a Report and Analysis of the Pediatrics Association prepared by them and presented to me personally by Professor Pilosoff regarding children's healthcare and about the needs and needs of the National Children's Hospital. I can also add that from a legal point of view, from a medical point of view, and from any other technical point of view, there is no compelling obstacle to the hospital that we call Government to become part of the future National Children's Hospital. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u221	Thank you. Mr. Simidchiev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u222	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We are discussing a lot about the topic of a children's hospital, at the same time it is also about business or the economy in medicine. I deeply believe that the real benefit of medicine can indeed be viewed by an economic plan, but it is about the benefit to society and there investment in children's health gives the greatest return because there is the longest period in which benefits can be achieved. It is an extremely important issue for the children's hospital, but there is another issue here that would be very important to me personally, and that is the question of how hospital treatment, which is the final phrase of treatment, is integrated with prevention so that the two can work alongside and get the maximum benefit for children. I mean, how does this hospital serve as a coordinating prevention center? Since we know that prevention saves life, prevention is cost-effective, vaccines save lives. In this regard, we can talk a lot about a horse, but we won't talk about a horse. I would like to ask: how can this hospital become a prevention centre, so that together with the treatment of children, we can achieve the maximum economic benefit for our entire society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u223	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Katsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Simidchiev, of course that prevention is key not only in children's health care, but in the health care system at all, you and I know very well that this is a topic that is neglected, abandoned and everyone's eyes are focused on hospitals where the money is, and there is never time to develop this topic. From the point of view of the possibilities of this base, which we are talking about at the moment, and it, in addition to being perhaps the most luxuriously furnished hospital, really has a huge capacity in terms of various types of laboratories and research opportunities. So as a base and as prerequisites for becoming such a centre, all conditions are, I think, plus the possibilities to develop them if, of course, such a solution comes to mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u225	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u226	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! According to NSI data, around 1 million and 200,000 children up to 18 years of age live in Bulgaria. For their treatment in recent years, the Health Insurance Fund has allocated about 11% of its budget, which is over 4.3 billion. lv. This amount includes payments for the capitation fee of the private doctors for the children enrolled with them, for a check-up outside the hospital and for treatment at the hospital. With this modest amount of child health can hardly be called a priority area in public health policy. Otherwise, all who enter power and enter power are slogans for priority of child and mother health, but unfortunately, it is only apparent that this remains declarative. It should also be noted that this money was only increased two years ago "for the first time. For more than 10 years, prices have not been adjusted at all and previous paths have been increased by 10 to 15%. However, the paediatric pathways are one of the lowest values. Given the opinion of leading pediatricians and the medical guild, I am a surgeon, but the specialty of Pediatrics is one of the serious specialties in medicine because it is interdisciplinary, extremely responsible. So, there you really need to consider the direct saying of the correction of the clinical pathways. At the same time, financial incentives and objective valuation and financing of hospital aid should be found where preventive activity should be and should be. We really need to focus on prevention. Mr. Minister, along with the Doctor's Union, with the Cassata, even you could initiate this process and be correct to the doctors who are on the pediatric front. In addition, I would like to hear your readiness to react with this, I just pointed out that 1735 pediatricians work in Bulgaria. The shortage is 450 pediatricians. We must speed up the process of specialization so that we do not find ourselves in the situation we were in with the infectiouss and the resuscitators. It's probably the right thing to do here. I've been talking to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u227	The weather, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u228	I'm finished, Madam President. It's important what I'm going to say. I'm taking the liberty of saying it. I have also spoken with previous colleagues of health ministers, and we really need to do an objective analysis of the current situation with specialists, the age profile. Where necessary and critical, indeed, we, if we are a serious state and the Ministry as a principal and an entity to implement this personnel policy, must speed up the process of specialization of young doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u229	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Katsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u230	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Chakarov, I share your concern. I had a chance to say it last time, and I'm gonna say it again now. I have such an initiative, I held a meeting with the Bulgarian Medical Association and the National Health Insurance Fund. We announced together to the media an initiative in several directions. One of them is lowering the limits, but the other is adjusting the prices of clinical pathways. They are presented to the Medical Union and the National Health Insurance Fund A plan for such a correction based on comparison with prices in other countries with developed economies, with deep traditions in the field of health. This plan envisions capital adjustments and increases the prices of precisely those backward, among which are the paediatric paths. The realization of this plan depends, of course, on the NHIF and the Bulgarian Medical Union, because in their prerogatives is the conclusion of the National Framework Treaty. I also did one more thing in support of children's healthcare and prevention, which Dr. Simidchiev mentioned, too, has prepared an amendment to the basic package in the Regulation No 9 of the Minister of Health, which I hope to succeed in promulging in the framework of the mandate that I have, which provides for the introduction of patronage care after the birth of the children. Not treatment, not reviews, but patronage care and assistance for young parents, young families from midwife, nurse or other specialist who can help in this particular activity in prevention and prevention in the earliest childhood. I hope this regulation will be published and this will be included in the National Framework Treaty. As I mentioned, I have made amendments to the Ordinance on Specializations, which will facilitate the specializations of all doctors, not just pediatricians. Indeed, you will agree with me, too, that a comprehensive reform of the health system is needed. These are separate things that in the little time that I have, with the tools that I have, I've managed to move forward. I am aware that this is not enough at all, that this does not solve all the problems and that this really requires a general approach, but this requires a sustainable government, requires a sustainable majority to stand behind such a reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u231	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u232	Mr. Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen! My question will be brief and specific. Do you and can you build in Bulgaria a single communication system that, using the opportunities of telemedicine, can connect in real time remote clinics, pediatric wards from all over the country so that in urgent circumstances, when decisions are to be made really quickly and instantly, the patient can be adequately and quickly rerouted after stabilization to the specific clinic that can give him the specific assistance he needs right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u233	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Katsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Tavalika, yes, we foresee such an opportunity. It is laid down in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Unfortunately, however, this was something that had to be done last year. Why did it have to be done last year? Because we could use it today as an opportunity to treat a horse, as you say. This is what developed countries have done. They found the opportunity. It doesn't require much of a resource. It requires, above all, the possibility of remote diagnostics to be performed, remotely assigned treatment, to avoid contact and thus avoid the spread of the disease. This is fully feasible within our country as well. It is quite possible to develop such a system. We've missed a lot of time and it's probably cost us a lot of lives. What we have been able to do is to see this as an opportunity and funding in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which will be financed by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u235	Thank you, Minister Katsarov. Now we move on to expression of attitude. Each parliamentary group shall have a total of 10 minutes. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u236	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! First of all, I would like to congratulate the coworkers on the position they have and have held since they have been here! On behalf of the "There is such a people" and by our colleagues in the Health Group, you have our support for everything you do and will do in the field of child health. At the same time, as people who we are, how can I say older than you, today has shown us something that soon children's healthcare and children's hospital will not be there. I was impressed that we didn't ask a lot of questions. We didn't ask a lot of questions, because from the very first answers we were shocked by how far has it gotten to touch and make a deal with the money for children's health care?! We can imagine, since it's been touched there, what it's been about for the past ten years! Again in this regard, we did not want to ask, because it is clear that the prosecution in this form will not give an answer and will not give justice to what happened. If there's one thing we can count on, here's this folder of the Commission, which is here to do and give an answer to the citizens and to us who did what, why did it and where did the money go? [[shows]] Because there's nothing scarier than stealing money from child care! As far as I'm concerned, let's finish what it's been like from here on out what I think should be done and what we think should be done: First, the Ministry of Health should present us with options as soon as possible - not only the option of Lozenets - but the option of tearing down the existing structure or building a new stain. I cannot understand what a National Assembly we are and what a higher authority it is, since here you cannot decide to find a spot or find a way to finance one of the most important medical facilities in the country! It is only right for the Ministry of Health to present us with options as soon as possible and what we can do, including changes to regulations or laws, to change so that this issue can be resolved once and for all. I don't know how long it will take and how long it will take, I think, not more than two weeks to do an analysis of this hospital, the Lozenets hospital, or the demolition option. They're not clear, so far these things should have been clarified! The next moment, which is.. here put it a lot of colleagues, the children are not only in Sofia, there are children in Varna, there are children in Yagodina. What do we do for these kids? Because the conditions there are no better than the conditions that are in the children's hospital in Sofia. In fact, there are places where these conditions are even worse. Why is that, colleagues? This version of the healthcare system in Bulgaria, under which clinical pathways are financed, leads to that. Perhaps you've all received in your boxes some complaints from a hospital that wants to make an investment of 100 million or 140 million. Do you ask yourself why this hospital didn't invest in a children's hospital? I can explain why. Because along the line of this law for medical institutions and health insurance law.. everything is lobbying and trading! Because the money is not in children's health care, and the money goes there in cardiological pathways and in stand-ups. Can that change, and how many years do it take to change the paths, and this whole lobbying system disappears? What is needed to end this whole story once and for all and radically? It is necessary to adopt a new law on medical institutions and to remove this whole system of commercial companies at least for public health institutions, let them be as they wish. This is the way to implement one reform and this is the way to stop talking about children's hospital next time we will talk about AG and any other. I hope that there will ever be a government and a parliament that will finally put the problems of health reform, but a real health reform, as the most important for the country, because this does not tolerate any more delay. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u237	Thank you. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u238	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Katsarov, listening to things from this tribune today, I understand one thing that you really are a specialist in some type of health organization that is unknown to us, who are managers in this direction and that is what we have done, but you certainly do not understand medicine and compliance with Bulgarian legislation. In terms of child health and child mortality. I want to tell you that the universal indicator that measures the quality of healthcare in a country is exactly child mortality. In recent years, child mortality has been the indicator that marks a lasting downward trend in our country. Dear Mr. Katsarov, in your speeches you said that you did not expect to be still Minister of Health. This was and is still the expectation of the entire Bulgarian society, of all the doctors you mocked, because the damage of your activity.. I cannot call it work, burying Bulgaria's healthcare for years. Who will be responsible for your actions, who will restore trust in the institution of the Ministry of Health? You defiled her, and your actions on the case with the children's hospital are just another proof of that. The construction contract, the reconstruction of the National Children's Hospital has become a political problem behind which there are serious financial interests for the absorption of some 8 million. lv. for designing the construction of a future building. And Minister Ananiev knows about it, and I know about it too. Yeah, I'm glad you sent everything you collected into that file to the D.A.'s office. They'll say who wanted to cancel the contract to get $8 million in design. Really very interesting case with a serious political taste. We certainly know the Bulgarian legislation, we have certainly launched not one and two public procurements, certainly the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Sofia Municipality is working everywhere. We are also familiar with the General Planning Plan, and with the detailed planning plan, and with the Public Procurement Act, and with the change of contractor, we have asked Minister Ananiev has done so, there is a proper answer. Everything that's happened is absolutely legal. But today you here, from this high tribune, had one goal to create a feeling in people that something wrong was done, that someone illegally took some money and, you see, someone got hurt. The only person who has suffered from your actions so far, Mr. Katsarov, will be the Bulgarian children again. You are terminating an ongoing and ongoing contract for the construction of the long-awaited children's hospital. Based on what analysis, research, a new better idea for a children's hospital or a faster project?! What are your arguments and what is the schedule for the implementation of the future children's hospital? Do you have land, do you have urban planning, PDP, or a construction visa? What is your concept of the new medical facility? Or again wishes, views, understandings, health reform. Mixing all that into a great, I would say, sensational program that you have made here in the form of fireworks, or just ending the implementation and realization of the children's hospital without realizing that the preparation and implementation of the new procedures, for which you have not yet even a concept, will take nearly a decade?! What penalties should the state of the Health Investment Company pay for the costs incurred so far for the children's hospital? Are you going to target the state-owned trading company implementing the project? How do you explain the lost millions to the public? How much more time and money must be wasted to make this National Children's Hospital? The termination of the existing contract for the construction of the children's hospital is justified by a letter from the Ministry of Education, which does not show any legal grounds, and there is no real refusal to continue the procedure for the construction of the PSU and the amendment of the Plan for Building. There are no such points in the letter because there is no real reason to suspend the procedure. Here's the letter. The building is there, there's an act of state property, there's all the documents, there's legal grounds. [[shows]] However, there is no legal basis for the letter of the MRDP, and it recommends, commented on the success of the investment intention, but does not indicate in any way what is the legal basis to allow the building to be moved into the PUP. And this legal nothing is used to end the existing treaty without informing the public what will be done to have a new children's hospital and how long it will take! [[IHN lines]] A lack of any transparency from the very beginning, since when you are a minister of the ministry, without caring about the consequences of your actions! Yes, you are not elected to be our minister by the sovereign, as they say by "There is such a people", but that does not mean that your actions should be deprived of a sense of responsibility. And now the question arises: why does the Ministry of Health, after the unargumented refusal of the MRDP to authorise the reconstruction of a fully legal building? State property instead of seeking its rights in MRRB, decides to terminate the contract?! And why do you, as sole owner of the capital of this public limited liability company, not issue a protocol to the sole owner of the capital to terminate the contract, but only throw wishes in the public domain in this direction? [[IHN lines]] Lozenets Hospital, Mr. Katsarov, is a sole shareholder company owned by you. As a minister you have the right to transform it, you have the right to start some action to build the children's hospital, not just to make wishes in this direction. In two and a half months, the only thing you've done is collect a folder, repeat with legal procedures and documents, and make the suggestion that, you see, someone hasn't done their job properly! You're acting with a wave of disaster, for the health care system. But children need this hospital not your arrogance and lies. You've reached out to everything that's important and fundamental in the health care system. Now you're reaching for the health of the children. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Noise and lines from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u239	Madam President, make a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u240	How do I make a remark?! So far you've denied all the legislation. [[Laughter and applause from IHN.]] I couldn't believe he was talking to a previous minister! [[World applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u241	You have no right to be the chairman of the stands, Mrs. Doncheva! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u242	Come and lead the meeting, Mrs. Kirova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u243	You have no right to take attitude from the stands, Mrs. Doncheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u244	I'm not taking any kind of attitude at all. [[Noise and lines.]] None! [[Noise and lines.]] Come in, Mr. Mikhailov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u245	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! It is very difficult for me after what Professor Angelov said to me to be unemotional. I will try to be objective at least. Here once Mr. Ananiev accused me quite unjustly of manipulating public opinion on the occasion of a parliamentary issue. You remember him for sure, Mr. Ananiev? But I, first of all, I'm sorry it took so long to ask. It's disincentived the nation's interest, which is currently watching us on Channel 1. Two-and-a-half hours for a really very important issue, but with so many questions, opinions that were repeated that was not in the interest of the debate. And it must be the leadership of the National Assembly that has already happened for the second time, Madam President, when there are two questions, unite them into one, there should be an effective number of questions, an effective number of comments on the principal. So everyone is tired, the hall is half full, and the questions are really serious. And now that we're done commenting on the organization of this question, let's get to the heart of the problem. What are its three supporting points? The first point of support: what has happened so far with the children's hospital, who has brought us to this state, who is politically responsible? I have no right of this tribune, and I advise everyone not to talk from here about defeating, destroying one thing or another, to blame this or that, as these are political issues that we are solving, having a political discussion and seeking political responsibility. And let the whole nation know that the political responsibility for the lack of a children's hospital is entirely borne by GERB party over the past 12 years! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]] Three years ago, thanks to the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the Society of Pediatrics, or association, submitted this issue to the Parliamentary Hall during the budget commentary and this resulted in several pompous meetings of the Health Commission, which led to nothing other than that the status of the relevant base of Lozenets, to be precise in our definitions of clinical units, became EAD. Neither did the children's hospital move there, nor did child's oncochemtology move there, nothing happened! What happened after that, however, was that they were created and that we know all who were interested in this question.. those companies who so far, as well as looking at it legally, Dr. Katsarov, as well as looking at it legally, Professor Angelov, answer both of us to this question, and the answer is one thing: is something done for the children's hospital? No! The scaffold is dead, the money is given out, the job hasn't been done on a yota! Even more scandalous and here I believe you that an object that has not been in the PUP for more than 10 years has been commented as possible for design! It's a total nonsense! And here we are talking about political responsibility. Those who have allowed this must bear it to the end, and this is you, colleagues from GERB. And I once said to you, "You've spilled not only child care, you've spilled all the health care for those 12 years with all the actions you've taken!" And from now on, so that we don't be so cardinal and move on to the second point, which is more important than what happened, who got us here. It is clear who brought us those who ruled us until two months ago! Now the question is: what should be done? Here I have some remarks for you, to be, with all due respect, quite frankly, and in the tone that Professor Kirilov asked you very specifically: when you go out to the respectable hall of the National Assembly, in the eyes of the entire nation, you should still have had your assistants prepare you with one analysis, to say: yes, we propose to move to the Lozenets Base on the basis of this and this as an analysis. Otherwise, this proposal really hangs, people start wondering after a four-hour debate, as my colleague said, and I congratulate him, it turns out that a children's hospital will soon be gone! With the proposals for international competitions, with the proposals for public procurement you know how the stages of public procurement are going. All this leaves the Bulgarian mothers, and I get this black memory with the mothers outside.. they will come here again and take responsibility for each of us. Because I was transferred as an assistant when this construction started 35 years ago at ISUL. My career is almost over, Dr. Katsarov, but the hospital is gone. That's what you tell the moms! I've been a child oncologist for 20 years, and I know what death is like for children, and even more so for their mothers! What is realized before the eyes of the entire nation is outrageous! Total outrage! This has to stop! You must in your short periods that remain, of competence, of the ability to guide the Ministry to actually do an analysis, to actually propose this solution, if appropriate. I answered you in our personal meeting. I don't think the children's hospital can be moved there. If you're going to move only Mitev without surgical units, without oncochemtology, it's unprofessional! All units must be in one unit, as the complexity of the services is a fundamental condition for the effectiveness of medical care in today's 21st century. When I started my work as an assistant, 80% of our children died with the diagnosis of Acute Leukaemia. " 80% of the children are now coming to life, Dr. Katsarov. However, turn to the data of an organ that has nothing to do with transplants, and this GERB has brought in the Agency of Transparency in one of them... of the Agency of Supervision, which has nothing to do with it! And you will see that child transplants in Bulgaria are hardly done anymore, they are hardly done! And not to mention the argument that there were labs. Labs are outsourced, almost nowhere large hospital units no longer use personal labs. If I told you that when I was in Uppsala, their scanners were relied on in Australia, and effectively relied on in Australia. So it's not the labs that have the population of high-tech units in a national hospital. A national hospital creates the possibility for a child to be cured in front of his mother, and that is the most important thing! So let's finish this attitude so that we don't harass the Bulgarian viewers and the Bulgarian people anymore. Try to do this analysis within the framework of your temporary powers, to offer this to the National Assembly, it will support you fully, I believe. And we owe that to the Bulgarian mothers. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DB. National Representative Kostadin Angelov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u246	You have no right to a line. That's...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u247	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u248	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Madam President, a moment ago you violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by taking attitude from the stands and replicating me. But I take that as a compliment from the man who imported the Vanko 1 amendment who got a convicted felon out of jail. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u249	Since I have the right to explain to you in two minutes under the Rules of Procedure, I am not an importer of the Vanko-1 Amendment. [[GERB-SDS lines]] I'm not an importer of the Vanko-1 Amendment!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u250	You're an importer, and I'll prove it to you! You have no right to be treated!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u251	I will inform the Chamber and provide you with a copy of the bill submitted to see who are the importers of the amendment. However, I believe that unlike the Facebook trolls that work on a job, you, as a professor, should have heard enough of the long explanations found on Wikipedia to know that you are saying something that is a lie. I think if you were just bye Gencho from the Women's Market, I was obliged to have the right to two minutes of explanation not to tell you anything. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] But since you are a professor doctor, made by GERB professor doctor, made by GERB head of clinic and yet I don't know what things to honor Alexandrovska hospital, accept what I said as an expression of shock: how is it possible for a person at this level to ignore all the legislation related to the construction and urban planning of Bulgaria, and to say that nothing interests him because they have found lawyers for several years to tell him that this can go away?! I take it that's how you ran the country. I don't have to explain anything to you anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u252	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u253	They have the floor for expressing their attitude to the issue representatives of the Democratic Bulgaria. Here you go, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u254	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u255	I didn't give you the floor. The rules don't allow you to take it...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u256	I beg you very much, Madam President... [[The President Tatiana Doncheva turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u257	Don't ride the department without someone giving it to you. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] First of all, take your seat if you want the floor. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] You took it. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Take your seat and ask for whatever you want. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Okay, well, keep standing then. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] I'm a lawyer. Did you write to Minister Angelov as a legal answer? Why didn't you consult with him? [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] There's no need. You've read it enough. Here you are, colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u258	You're throwing a circus here! [[Extreme lines by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u259	Madam President, Mr Minister! For 10 years, since I worked as a child doctor, I can most responsiblely state that at the time when GERB managed the Health Ministry, absolutely nothing was done for children's health care. Children's clinical pathways continued to be the lowest, our child mortality continued to be almost twice and a half higher than in European countries. At 6.5 per 1,000 lively deaths in Bulgaria, the infant mortality rate in Europe was 3.5 per 1000 lively.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u260	Why are you lying? Aren't you ashamed?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u261	On the other hand, there were heavy words about lies, about lack of transparency. I will give only one reference to the needs of which Minister Katsarov mentioned was repeatedly required by the Initiative for a real children's hospital on all possible channels under the Public Information Access Act, through a petition signed with quite thousands of signatures. A national citizens' initiative to which there is no answer to this day!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u262	Two million stood behind the hospital!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u263	Where's the two million I don't know. But there are 90 thousand Bulgarian citizens who have signed the last electronic petition!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u264	Who sent you to lie?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u265	Words of lies were heard...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u266	Mr. Ananiev, please don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u267	GERB lied to the nurses that he gave 40 million. Where's that 40 million? The nurses never saw them. Minister Ananiev lied to his residents about accepting all our demands. None of our requests for a change to the Specialization Ordinance, which Minister Katsarov is now changing, were accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u268	You're lying again!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u269	You lied to the pediatricians for two and a half years, we saw that nothing happened. The hospital in Liverpool was built in two and a half years. You have had 10 years, gentlemen of GERB, to make us the children's hospital instead of accusing us that Minister Katsarov had not done it in three months! But in return, he ended this disgraceful covenant! Because I do not know how you thought December 2018 that you would sanitize an abandoned construction that was declared a demolition in 2011 and does not exist in legal peace?! Let us put this bad page behind us, hope we never come back to it again, and start over with the overall construction of children's healthcare with a good strategy for the development of children's health care, with some very detailed analyses about the personnel we have.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u270	I guess a psych ward has to be, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u271	Because if we have a shortage of pediatricians, then the shortage of children's nurses is huge and the average age is over 60 years. We urgently need to resolve the personnel deficit in the field of child health, we need to think about prevention...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u272	Make a government and decide!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u273	...we need to think about how to integrate into all existing structures that are responsible for prevention, for hospital care, all hospitals in the country so that they work together in the interests of children and so that all unresolved cases are finally diagnosed and treated at the National Children's Hospital before going abroad. Because we've seen how many fundraising campaigns there are. And let's make it clear that the good solution for moving the existing pediatrics to the building of Lozenets Hospital is a temporary solution, and it cannot in any way meet the needs of Bulgarian children in the next 50 to 100 years. Let us have clear deadlines for the construction of a new building of the children's hospital. And here the experts will now decide exactly where the place is, exactly how many beds they will be, but let its construction step on a very detailed analysis, and it is done now. Because I'm really not sure that we pediatricians, even though we have provided this analysis, are able to perform a detailed one, planning the entire securitisation for the next 20 years. I've spoken to experts from abroad who have prepared such analyses for the largest hospitals. It's a process that takes about a year. And why wouldn't we have an international architectural contest? How in normal countries does the whole process from analysis to the first operation take an average of about five years, and here we can't do it? If we had started five years ago, our children would be in this hospital by now. But let's not go back. Let everything that we are talking about so far be finally transparent and finally the public council that we have asked to happen, because the government comes and goes, as we have seen, but the construction of the children's hospital must be guaranteed by this platform and must be a clear priority of each political party. Children's healthcare is a matter of planning for the coming years and it must be sustainable in time. We need a clear guarantee that there is no once again to start the children's hospital and leave it in nothingness, as Minister Ananiev and Minister Angelov did. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u274	There is a word on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u275	In the manner of conduct! Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u276	There's nothing going on right now to lead or do any procedure. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u277	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, to a large extent we, from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, are satisfied with the answers that you have presented, the positions and perspectives that emerge for the functioning of the healthcare system. I would not like to get into an argument with my colleague at the very beginning, but, Dr. Hristov, I would most rightly like to turn to you that my humble opinion is to optimize the clinical pathways without opposing the cardiologists, engaging colleagues. Obviously it is necessary to optimize all paths, and we have seen that the clinical pathways in pediatrics have an acute need to be objectified in terms of work, responsibilities, at all the complexity of the responsibility that colleagues in this area have. There is clearly a need for a comprehensive review of the other clinical pathways, but here is the responsibility of both the Doctor's Union and the Cassata to implement the necessary procedures. But to you, Minister, you have already spoken, but once again, expressing our attitude, it is good for you to initiate this opportunity, conversations and procedures regarding clinical pathways in the field of pediatrics. The other one, which is obvious, talking today about reforming pediatric aid in the healthcare system, is undoubtedly necessary, but reform is needed in general in the healthcare system. And here I will allow myself to say that we from the DPS no longer have one, not two years, perhaps five or ten years we have been appealing for reform of the health care system. Unfortunately, we're not heard. It is good that you are taking this topic very seriously, in view of the state in which the healthcare system is located. She's no good. We share that she's not good. A fact that is undoubtedly eloquent, I hope, which I will say, if I am not mistaken, 2003 the operation outside the Ministry, naturally, I mean to the Casa, the healthcare system started with 800 million. lv. At the moment, it's about 5 billion. lv. Is the medical component, am I referring to all medical personnel, doctors and all those who work in the health care system satisfied, more satisfied, or are the patients more satisfied? From the statistics that you are drawing on the basis of conclusions from the World Bank, we are the country where medicines are most expensive, the most paying off, the proportion of hospital care, unfortunately, is very worrying, so much more money is being spent, the efficiency of the expenditure of the funds is not what it should be. If the burden is removed and the functions are performed as effective as there are in hospital aid, but for this the necessary steps must be taken, I believe that this should start right now. The main tool for this to happen is in the talks, the negotiations that will be held with the Doctor's Union, with the Budget Fund for next year. We will see then whether there are such intentions on the part of those who will manage in the coming months until an update of the budget, or... With the budget update, this is not going to happen, but at least with the next year's budget to start these first steps. For that the system is such, colleagues, we must all stand up and be responsible to say that the responsibility lies with all of us who have had responsibilities at one stage or another in the functioning of the system. We have expressed our position, but it has not been heard and there has been no political will. Unfortunately, if we have to answer the question of whether there is a political will to reform today to unite everyone and to have a consensus, no, unfortunately, there is no. We call today from our parliamentary group, from our political power, to really form a political consensus, because we see the life of the 45th, and the 46th National Assembly, will not answer these questions. We need to unite, have dialogue, in a dialogue environment to solve these issues! People have expectations and we all have responsibilities for that. And we are really calling for dialogue and consensus, so that we can finally approach and launch this reform with a sub-party political consensus, and that it will be laid down in the following year, as well as in a number of other areas, naturally, in education, in the social sphere and so on, but today we are discussing and discussing health reform. I hope that the imbalance for hospital care, as well as the part about pediatrics, will be taken into account with the following budgets, given, and be set to start there as well, and colleagues who are on the front, fully and in pediatric aid, will be so dignifiedly appreciated with their work. We really need the will to step forward and resolve these issues. You can see that efficiency is not what it should be. I believe that today's hearing has been effective and we hope for further real steps and actions, Mr. Minister, and we expect even the first steps in the short time that you have to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u278	Any last words for expressing attitude? [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I know. I'd defend and sit down. Here you go, but cut the time for...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u279	Mrs. Doncheva, as much as I deserve. On the basis of the new Rules, we have as much time as breaks. It's good to read it all. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your comprehensive answers. I'm going to try to summarize the factology in a few parts as a few sagas that I was able to write down. The saga on the scaffolding, which is evident to be unfit, but attempts are made to strengthen it, and to build it. How this scaffolding has healed between 2011 and now, this is a good question for specialists. Turns out there's no PUP, and even as we know, a rabbit in Bankya can't do without a PUP. There are two companies with the same documents, with one contribution of 30 million. And here the question is absolutely clear... what does the Registry Agency do? But one thing's for sure is that the two companies are two feeders. And what society needs to know is what their salaries are on these two feeders. We have a lack of evaluation of the current state of the structure, however, on the other hand, clearly there is no project. What is the way of price formation, I was asking myself the question as I listened to you here because, obviously, somewhere, the battle is for a hundred million. But this battle has come to a point where they see 100 million and they don't care what child health is. Without the existence of an architectural and constructive project, on what circumstances I understand here that they are gone. We have to say, from what we understand that there really is no other way out than that they were paid for by activity 2, as you called it, and I'm saying here, I hope I've recorded the figures correctly instead of 130,000. BGN 133. and 88 sq., clearly according to the procedures, more than 9 million have been paid in activity 2, but notice! The big question is, is that 10% a commission of some kind? How's that sound, guys? But clearly, when some deadlines expire, because we need to see the date on which they were paid without any project visible in the political crisis in which the country was in, I understand that good are indeed the doubts of the society about it. For any of us, there is no priority that is placed above and above child health. Alina's five. She's the collective image of one of our children. Listening to the diagnosis that your child is suffering from cancer is the hardest diagnosis any parent can hear. To pass the parent through having chemotherapy, immunotherapy or any other therapy in which the hair of the child in which you see bleeding on the skin where you feel that you have only one in this country, and it is our wonderful doctors who are ready under the terrible conditions under which they work to be with you and with you, with the society that is before you. Alina's getting sick. She can't feel the food. Aggressive therapy destroys her senses, but aggressive corruption destroys our health infrastructure. For Alina, the hospital is a second home. She lives between the banks that infuse her and her dream to get out of the hospital, while others are between the projects and the fake companies. She's looking for the taste of this food, and they're looking for the taste of money. That's what we saw here. Where children are loved, where they have a responsibility to them, where they believe that the future is those children there is innovative medicine, protecting the dignity of parents and doctors. A few years ago, a child came to me from Stara Zagora. He had sepsis. The urine flowed in the urilla from the side, but there were the best doctors there. Prof. Schmilev, Professor Ivanov. I know how important it is for us to support innovative medicine and good medicine, because footage, pediatrics, nurses are the important ones. Looks like the battle isn't for one life. It's a 100 million-dollar battle.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u280	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u281	In a country where a lev is more than one life, it's carefree.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u282	You can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u283	It's a waste of time, it's just corruption. That looks like stealing. It's not just incompetence.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u284	Come on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u285	This is no longer a matter for the Minister of Health, colleagues, but for the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic that we will ever have.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u286	In the manner of conduct, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u287	This item has ended on the agenda. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] We didn't close the meeting. Mrs. Kirova had before you. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Wait calmly, as in the new Rules of Procedure, the time of the sitting is prolonged with the time of interruption. That's really what's written in art. 58, para. 2 which regulates a break at the request of a parliamentary group and not at the request of the President, I wanted to make a reference. Let us assume that the time of the sitting is prolonged with the time of interruption, as I am not sure whether we have formed it at the request of the President.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I think we'll have those 15 to 30 minutes of extension for procedural and management issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u288	We want it by acceptance of the seventh point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u289	One procedure is your supplication to the next seventh point. Is there another procedure? There is. That's not the way to run it. I don't know. Maybe as a personal explanation, like something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u290	Let's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u291	Okay. What was before?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u292	First, time has to vote so that we can...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u293	No, no, we found it in the Rules of Procedure why we consider it prolonged. Who wants the extension procedure to point seven?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u294	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, we want an extension of the time until the seventh point is examined. That's an actual question. It's a very up-to-date matter. Just finish it within today, because otherwise you have to go for next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u295	So the demand is to extend the working time until the seventh item of the agenda is exhausted, which is next. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of my colleague Bikov. They voted 153 MPs: 90 against 41, abstention 22. The offer is accepted. Okay, what are we naming him?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u296	I suggested that it be in the manner of conduct, if you like, it may be a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u297	Because it has nothing to do with leading.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u298	Let it be a personal explanation to my colleague Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u299	Okay. A personal explanation of my colleague, Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u300	Many times colleagues, I've gone out to this bank. Many times you've heard me raise a tone here in this room. But today I have something to tell you that's disgusting. This child from Stara Zagora, whom you allow yourself to talk about here, and God is my witness, and my colleagues have witnessed that since you are in this Parliament, your name I have protected before them and you have allowed yourself to take out my child, my goddaughter, who we rode in Plovdiv nights. You, using this child...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u301	I didn't use it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u302	Well, I happen to be here, and the parents who aren't here, and the relatives who aren't there to come out and tell you in the eye that it's dishonest and mean and mean to play with kids.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u303	But I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u304	Whether we're gonna do hospitals, whether we're gonna protect these hospitals, what we're gonna do is health policy, and I don't know what.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u305	But it's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u306	But when you put kids real, and you fuck with them, it's dishonest. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u307	Now, now, now, now! We assume that colleague Manev is emotionally involved.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u308	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u309	Colleague Kapon, I didn't give you the floor. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u310	But it's not true, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u311	I see. I didn't give you the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u312	That's not true, and I'm holding...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u313	Please, I didn't give the floor. We assume that colleague Manev is emotionally involved. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Quiet, please! There is no mention of the child's name and no mention of anything to identify him. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. Please! The more you explain, the more it becomes clear which child we're talking about, if you want to keep anonymity, it can't be explained. Besides, there was no mention of a child's name, nothing but Stara Zagora. You can't tell first name who it's about. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u314	Please, Mrs. Doncheva, give me your word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u315	Don't give her the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u316	All right, take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u317	Mrs. Doncheva, thank you. For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u318	What a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u319	I hold it because I understand your emotionality...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u320	What explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u321	Please, please, gentlemen, former ministers, don't scream.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u322	I don't know why you didn't hear that I said a collection image of child Alina. If your goddaughter and she, Mr. Manev, have no carcinogenic disease and you know it. Please don't fall into this at all. It had nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u323	What do I fall into?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u324	That I gave...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u325	And it's not from Stara Zagora.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u326	But it's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u327	When you do something...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u328	Mr. Manev, the fact that you've decided so is totally unfair.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u329	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u330	Okay, please, please, please, just be quiet and take your seats. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u331	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u332	Here you are, Mrs. Kirova, in the manner of conduct and come to lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u333	Mrs. Doncheva, I don't want to hold this meeting. I asked you a moment ago to give me the floor in the manner of conduct, because you first took the liberty of commenting on this tribune and replicate the speaker before that, without having the right to do so in the way you did. You allowed yourself to have insulting qualifications from the House and to tolerate them without making a remark. You let it turn into a talk room and not a show, but an ugly circus and a tragedy. Because there were talkers here on the topic of.... who allowed themselves to turn speeches into highly emotional, inspired speeches in order to manipulate the audience, because I think that the audience here understood very well what the purpose of their speeches was. It is unacceptable and this cannot happen if the President does his job. We yell at each other, we all scream, because you allow it and it is high time that you understand that the President of the National Assembly is first among equals and there are no additional extras or more rights than anyone else. If we do not follow the rules in this National Assembly and show disrespect to the institutions, there is no way to convince Bulgarian citizens that we want the institutions to exist and have some power. So please don't let this happen again.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Now let's move on to the next point for which we extended the time: HEARING OF THE MANAGER OF NHIF PETKO SALCHEV ON THE BASIC TURN. 110 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE FUNDING OF THE APPROVED BY THE MHAL OF THE HEART AND THE MOVEMENT OF THE NEW ADDRESS IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF NEW MEDICAL OPERATIONS FOR THE REGION OF 2024 I don't see Mr. Salchev. Mrs. Kirova, shall I pay you something to consult in the manner of conduct, or will you treat us as the City Council of Vidin? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u335	We have to let him in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. Dear colleagues, I am doing a procedure for the admission of Mr. Petko Salchev to the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u338	Please, whoever agrees to allow Mr. Petko Salchev to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u339	I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u340	Sit down, please, in your seat. You're not holding the meeting today. If you want, come and take him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u341	I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u342	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u343	You mentioned me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u344	What, when I mentioned it to you, what do you want to explain yourself? It is not good to explain the chair table in this way, so I told you: sit down, we are not in Vidin. If you want, we can work it out later. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please complete the vote and announce the result. 135 MPs voted: 127, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Is Mr. Salchev here? Take your seat. I didn't give you the floor. I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u345	I'll wait for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u346	Maybe, but sit down. Is Mr. Salchev here? [[Replys: he's gone!]] Then what are we doing? Are we taking a break until Mr. Salchev gets here?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u347	You can't deprive me of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u348	How will I deprive you of your right? Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u349	Mrs. Doncheva, you allow yourself to address me by name and to mention me in relation to the work of the Municipal Council. For starters, I never presided over him, and I never took the floor in such an ugly way, because there was never such an ugly host at meetings. As for the payment, Mrs. Doncheva, I don't need you to pay for my consultations. I know very well who is paying you, so please be so kind as to show respect, because you will get what you are shouting at. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Replices.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u350	It's not good to close the meeting after we've extended it. Mr. Salchev is on a pass. I'm not gonna stand in the way of anyone wanting to show up, on the contrary. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] All right, here's the motive.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u351	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me present to you the timeline of events that have troubled us to make today's inquiry. On 21 May 2021, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 21 May 2021 to 25 May 2021. A letter from the Commercial League to President Rumen Radev was sent to the Presidential Office a week after the oath of the caretaker government in the Gerbova Hall of the Presidency. In the letter Prof. Nikolay Dimitrov, Medical Director of University Hospitals, Heart and Brain, Burgas and Pleven, and Chief Secretary of the Medical University, Sofia, informed the President that the Commercial League is developing a large-scale project to create a new Medical University in Burgas with a subsidiary in Pleven. In the same letter, the Commercial League is requesting a meeting with the President to acquaint him with the project "New Medical Capacity" and they want President Rumen Radev to support the integration of this strategic project according to the Trade League project in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria. The request for a meeting shall, where possible, take place at the beginning of June 2021. On 31 May 2021, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 May 2021 to 31 May 2021. 19 days after the oath of the caretaker government in the Gerbova Hall of the Presidency, in the Ministry of Health there is an application from the Hospital of Heart and Brain.The new medical activities are requested with a new address: Sofia District, Sofia Municipality, Kazichene village, Pancharevo District, ul. "Farmapark" and the current address of the medical establishment in the town of Pleven: ul. ..Pierre Curie No. 2. The new hospital is scheduled to have over 500 beds in 19 clinics, a few more structures will be built separately without clinics, without beds, mostly laboratories. In the hospital there will be extremely boutique and high-tech activities such as cardiosurgery, neurosurgery, nuclear medicine. In all these specialties in Sofia, there is no failure. In Sofia, there are at least five cardiosurgeons, even more neurosurgery. The hospital is scheduled to open a medical genetics laboratory, which is also needed when prescribing the most expensive medicated therapies, for example in oncology, and not only because this is the future of innovation. In addition to boutiques, there are many commercial activities in the medical establishment, from which the country, and in particular Sofia, do not need either, as there are too many at the moment. Such are medical oncology, invasive cardiology, gastroenterology, obstetrics and gynecology and so on. The intention to build the new hospital occurs against the backdrop of the oversaturation of hospitals for active treatment in the country. We are first in the European Union according to this indicator per capita and according to Eurostat there are 624 beds for active treatment of 100 000 people, against 392 on average for the European Union. On this occasion, there is serious correspondence and discussion between the Ministry of Health and the Hospital of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, which is required by the Ministry of Health in two letters on the dates 4 June and 13 July. On 21 July 2021, the Ministry of Health shall initiate the legal procedure under art. 37b of the Law on Medical Institutions, thus circumventing the regulatory requirement of art. 37a of the Law on Hospitals for the Disclosure of a New Hospital, a New Building, sending a letter that arrives at NHIF, notice, on July 22nd Thursday! At this time, the NHIF is acting rapidly and within one working day - July 23rd, Friday, carrying out an assessment of the budgetary impact. In a letter dated 26 July, the NHIF signed by NHIF Governor Petko Salchev, said: "In terms of the funding opportunities of the requested by the University Hospital of Heart and Brain at the new address in the village of Kazichene new medical activities NHIF believes that the funds for financing of these activities will be provided in the financial plans of the NHIF for the period, notice, from 2024! Many worrying questions arise, and that is why we want to hear the NHIF governor's motives for these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u352	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Now Mr. Salchev must respond in 10 minutes. From what I understand, any moment now, we should be... [[Petko Salchev reports he's in the hall.]] And you're here already? I'm sorry. You have the floor, yes. Okay, so the hearing's going on as it's gonna be. You have 10 minutes to answer, Mr. Salchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u353	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the asked, I would like to do a slight flashback on art. 37b.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u354	What law?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u355	Article 37b of the Law on Medical Institutions appears in 2015 and no opinion of the National Health Insurance Fund is required there. His version was made in 2018, where a requirement for an opinion by the National Health Insurance Fund has been made, I say an opinion, not a decision, and has its version in June 2020, where the interpretive opinion has been expressed that an additional message must be sent to the importer of the request. Article 37b requires an opinion from the Regional College of the Bulgarian Medical Union or BZC and an opinion from the National Health Insurance Fund. The opinion they will give shall not affect the subsequent procedure under art. 37b, as no matter what the opinion is, it goes to the Executive Agency for Medical Supervision, which subsequently requires an analysis of the need for hospital beds, on the one hand, on the other hand, require, as is currently being done, the National Health Insurance Fund to provide information on how many contracts are concluded on the territory concerned. In the performance of art. 37b The National Health Insurance Fund has submitted an opinion on the request of the hospital which has applied to the Ministry of Health. In accordance with art. 59b, para. 4 and 5 of the Health Insurance Act, the Director of the RHIF cannot conclude contracts, respectively additional agreements with health institutions which have not applied within the relevant time limits, regardless of the reasons for this, and the cases in which a desire to extend the subject-matter of the contracts, respectively the additional agreements. The cited provisions shall not apply where hospital care establishments and complex environmental centres have been authorised to carry out medical activities after the procedure under art. Art. 37a or respectively 37b of the HDZ, in which the NHIF has issued an opinion on financing of the relevant activities, and may conclude contracts with additional agreements. Similar to the provisions cited are provided for in the National Framework Treaty. In this case, the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment is an existing medical facility. The same authorisation was granted for carrying out medical activities. At present, the University Hospital "Heart and Brain" was granted authorisation for medical activity No. NB 414 of 21.07.2021, which performs activities at the following address: Pleven, ul. Pierre Curie No 2 and Street "General Vladimir Vazov" No 91, and Burgas, Blvd. "Stefan Stambolov" No 73. The medical establishment has stated a desire to reveal a new address. in the village of Kazicene, Sofia district, Pancharevo district, ul. "Farmapark." I'm not gonna say UPI or anything. By letter dated 21 July 2021, the Deputy Minister of Health requested an opinion on the basis of art. 37b, para. 3 on the possibilities for financing new medical activities with attached documents and relevant positive opinions from the Bulgarian Medical Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u356	From Pleven!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u357	And I have the documents. At an address in the village of Kazichene, new wards of existing clinics and new clinics are offered. According to the provision of § 1, t. 11 of the Law on medical establishments new medical activities are medical activities in specialties in which the medical institution has not performed business, as well as medical activities in specialties in which the medical institution operates, but is changing its volume, a new structure in the same speciality is being created or an increase in the level of competence of the existing structure of the medical establishment, including high-tech diagnostic and treatment methods and their related technological medical equipment. Regarding the possibility of financing the requested by the Hospital "Heart and Brain" EAD - Pleven, new medical activities, NHIF believes that it is possible within the existing financial parameters set by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF for Burgas. In accordance with art. 35, para. As regards the possibility of financing the hospital's requests at the new address in Kasicene, new medical activities were taken into account, that the appropriate means of financing this activity would be provided for in the financial plans of the NHIF in the period after 2024 if they completed the entire procedure. And since Professor Angelov knows the whole procedure after issuing the permission order, Professor Angelov must have the permission of the Minister of Health in order to be able to conclude a contract in the respective regional health insurance fund. In this regard, I would like to emphasise that opinions on art. 37b, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions for 2020 were requested by the Ministry of Health 30 pieces and for 2021. 20 pieces. Specially for 2020 the requirements are as follows: for UMHAT Marina.; Ajibadem City Clinic Sofia; University Hospital Velingrad; Hospital of Orthopedics "Prof. Boycho Boychev ; SOBAL "Atanas Peshev"; SBR Petrich. Petrich city; for two new addresses in the town of Sandanski, around the road and Velingrad, ul. "Nikolai Khrelkov" No 32; UMHAT "N." I. Pirogov "; SBR.I.I.I.I.I.S.A.S.A.Sofiamed; SBR Petrich; Hospital City Clinic; Hospital "Ivan Skenderov "; Hospital "St. Karidad "; SBALOT "Vitosha "; SBALAG " S.S.S. For 2021 for new medical institutions is required opinion: for SBR.St. Elena "St. Konstantin, hotel "Elena" and SBR Blok" Ltd. "Sofia." Under art. 37b, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions is requested: Hospital "Heart and Brain" Address: Burgas, town of Pleven, and Kazichene St. Mary's; Hospital "Popovo"; Hospital "Stamboliyski"; University Hospital "St. Virgo Maria (MHD); Medical complex "St. Mr. Ivan Rilski "St. Stara Zagora" branch, I stress the branch of Stara Zagora, Central oncohospital. Boycho Boychev. УСБал за медицика "Пирогов"; Мамал "Силистра"; Умал "Александровска"; Мамал "Hadji Dimitar." Marina "; SBR "Rodopi"; SBR "Nesebar"; Mineral Baths and Hospital "Skenderov" For all these hospitals, the National Health Insurance Fund has given an opinion that within the framework of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund the same will be financed. Conclusion. As governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, I have always respected the requirements of Bulgarian legislation. In my work, I have always kept transparency in my work. I would like to stress again that the National Health Insurance Fund does not finance beds or activities, but buys the services provided by the medical service providers, and that they have been carried out and accounted for. The plans for any investment shall be authorised by the Minister of Health in the appropriate order. The National Health Insurance Fund, which I have offered before, should not sit in the middle with the opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Association, but should be after the full assessment by IAMN of the opportunities in the region and then be asked for the opinion: is there currently available funds to buy these funds? And this thing is not adopted as a legislative initiative by the National Health Insurance Fund, but by parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u358	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. We are moving on to questions from the parliamentary groups. For those looking at us, know that two issues can be put by a parliamentary group. There is such a people? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedure to ask you to come into contact with the health minister if he is still in the parliament building or close to parliament, as I believe that this will be necessary in connection with the debate that follows the questions and attitudes. For the past few weeks, Minister Katsarov has said in connection with this case that only NHIF has committed to the case and the retrospective which he read in the plenary room Professor Salchev. Now obviously Professor Salchev claims that the whole procedure has started in the Ministry of Health, as the Law requires it, by the way, and I believe that in order to have more clarity, perhaps the presence of Minister Katsarov in plenary is also necessary. So I'm asking you, if there's any chance that he'll come back. He'll be useful in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u360	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Katsarov will be informed, but since we are already in the hearing procedure for Mr. Salchev, we will continue this way. If Mr. Katsarov is willing, he may come and submit clarification, but we cannot, within the procedure already in place, oblige him. So I accept the offer. Please contact the National Assembly with Mr. Katsarov and be invited, if he wishes, to express his opinion. Here, you know, ministers can talk at any time. So, we move on to the questions. Please ask Mr. Salchev the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u361	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Salchev, it is known that in Bulgaria there are 1000 people 7.4 beds with average norm in the European Union. In this regard, it is also known to everyone that one bed does not represent the bed itself, behind it is staff, doctor, nurse, heating, any costs, which causes all the problems with financing, underfinancing and all the others forcing a lot of managers to do legal and not quite legal actions. In this regard, I have a question for you. Can you answer me the following: how many beds per 1,000 people there are in the region in question for which the hospital in question applies? The second question is: how many beds per 1,000 people are there in the region in question in the specialities and paths applied for by the hospital in question? And my third question is: how does the NHIF program and how does the required number of beds provide for a period of several years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u362	Thank you, Mr. Christov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Salchev. After each question, there is an answer within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u363	I just want to say something, obviously the procedure is not understood.. NHIF does not programme beds. This is a follow-up step in the procedure under art. 37b, which is programmed by the Medical Supervision Executive Agency, which requires all information from the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis, from the Regional Health Inspectorate and from us about the contracts concluded. The NHIF does not finance beds, and I stressed it at the end of my speech, the NHIF buys reported activity. Since you asked me how many beds? There are 12 thousand, about 12 thousand beds on Sofia's territory with a population of a million and two hundred. How the estimate is made and whether it is done at all, I do not want to go into the details, but in the specialty of the university.Accursedness and Gynecology in Sofia work 12 hospitals, in The story of 100 hospitals on the territory of the country that serve does not cover the specialties. In addition, 15 hospitals are employed in the Cardiology, the Infectious Diseases (Infectious Diseases) only 6 hospitals, in the Neonatology (Neonatology) 14 hospitals with 405 beds, in the Neurology (Neurology) 17 hospitals, neonatological beds in the Obstetric Structures, 3 hospitals, although the requirement of the National Framework Treaty requires every obstetric-gynological structure to have a Neonatology. And I won't list our reference any further. But I would like to say that the opinion given by the National Health Insurance Fund is possible for the year in question. If it is requested this year to find in the hospital additional beds, whether there is a possibility, and for a future period it can be planned when the permission comes out so that we know how much and what is allowed by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u364	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. From the parliamentary group of GERB? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Salchev, my question is very specific. In order to dispel any doubts that there are any links and dependences on the issue we are debating today, I would like to ask you a question. The Commercial League and the Hospital "Heart and brain" Pleven, with a letter to the Minister of Health, offers you a state authority by saying in their proposal I quote: "Thanks to their tireless work and visionary approach, also because you are a defender of the interests of the Bulgarian patients. " and my question is very specific: can you tell us where your crossing points with the Commercial League are, so that they can gain these personal impressions of you; do you have any common projects or any dependence on the business league and the Hospital of me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u366	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Salchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My only point of intersection with the Commercial League is when I won a case against them in 2003 and what they offered me was not from the Commercial League, but from the Cardiology Institute, and it was proposed to the Minister of Health. If the Minister of Health had any doubts at this time, he should not have proposed me to the Council of Ministers and the President. He has proposed to the Council of Ministers my award with an order because that is what you stress, and the Council of Ministers has made the appropriate decision. What are my other scientific projects and publications? They're public, they're published everywhere, and they're referring to my scientific work. In addition, I feel in the town of Pleven, where part of this Cardiology Institute is located, I also have too many residents and PhD students. I think I can be proud that I have some of the significant number of PhD students in Bulgaria who have been training on my specialty, who have tried to wipe it out since 2001. Currently acting professors of my specialty, not retired yet, there are only two of us. So I can answer that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u368	Thank you, dear Mr. Salchev. Are there any questions from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. Next up is the Democratic Bulgaria. Do you have any questions? I can't see. From the DPS? I won't. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! I can't see. Then we move on to the second round of questions. Is there such a people? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u369	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Salchev, colleagues! I would like to ask Mr. Salchev whether this hospital was granted permission by the Minister of GERB in 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u370	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor, Mr. Salchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u371	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yordanov, the hospital of the Heart and the brain have issued several permissions and several orders under art. 37b. In 2020 there was issued by Minister Angelov and in 2019 there was issued by Minister Ananiev on the same case for a second address in the city of Burgas, so the procedure is also then, and now it is the same. I can present the documents with the orders and permits signed by the two ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u372	Thank you, Mr. Salchev. The parliamentary group of GERB-SDS Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u373	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Salchev, with your letter at the end of last year you refused to finance a life-saving medicine to treat patients with spinal muscle atrophy. On this occasion, a patient's organization called you the life-teller. Your motive was then: The analysis of the budgetary impact shows at this time the inability to cover the cost increase of the NHIF by approximately 14,5 million. lv. the first year and close to 43 million. lv. the fifth year when adding a new patient population and under the conditions of the already completed budget procedure and the approved budget. Now, in your letter to the Minister of Health, you say: "In terms of the funding opportunities of the requested by the Hospital of Heart and Brain, EAD at the new address in the village of Kazichene, new medical activities NHIF believes that the appropriate funds for financing these activities will be provided for in the financial plans of the NHIF for the period of 2024. My question now is: how have you assessed the budgetary impact now, provided that the NHIF budget for 2024 has not been voted and there is no such budgetary procedure? And by whom will these funds be provided in the NHIF budget, provided that your term ends before 2024? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u374	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Salchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Angelov, tying different data and facts does not help your thesis. If the budgetary impact for a medicine is assessed, one is irrelevant to the opinion issued whether or not funds will be planned. Nowhere in the said article. 37b does not say that the opinion should contain budgetary impacts, as the assessment by IAMN has not been made how many structures and beds will be allowed. And for what you allow yourself to accuse me of confessing to a so-and-so, I don't think you're honoring yourself as a professor. When we talked to you about this problem, when I explained it to you, you forcefully pushed IAMN to send letters again and talked to patient organizations that this problem would be solved. So do not mix your question, which concerns the hospital, with drug policy. Thanks to the Cashier, with her making a good financial policy, we are currently covering all the rare and life-saving diseases that the Ministry of Health was constantly transferring to the Casa budget. Yesterday we sent a child for a transplant abroad. Yes, and in your time we did, Mr. Angelov. And in your time, you insisted that we treat the two girls at Lozenets Hospital. Did we tell you anything? We shook hands and did it, and now all of a sudden you're using the words of a patient organization to accuse me of almost being a murderer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u376	Thank you, dear Mr. Salchev. Were the other groups willing to ask questions? Come in, DPS, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Salchev, I would like to return the discussion a few years back and remind colleagues who were not in the National Assembly at the time and to say that Professor Salchev's candidacy as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund was proposed by the parliamentary group of GERB and was supported only by colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group. Now a very interesting question arises and this is my question: what do you think is due to the attack right now to the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund after the opinion under art. 37b of the Law on Medical Institutions, you have explained exactly what it is about and it is obvious that when issuing this opinion there is no violation of the Law? Next, why do we think this attack is not just an attack on you, but on the Minister of Health and on the office? I am the last person to defend all the activities of the office, but what is becoming clear at the moment is that this attack on you is due to the actions of the Minister of Health from the office and the actions that the governor and control bodies of the National Health Insurance Fund carried out within the term of office. If you could answer these questions, I'd be grateful, because I don't think this attack is just about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u378	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Salchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u379	Thank you. I don't think it's an attack, but, uh, how can I put it, a tease. That's one. The second, about a month ago, publicly on TV in front of all of Bulgaria, a gentleman said that my head would be taken. You can account for when my head's request started. The request of my chapter began last year first by the Bulgarian Medical Union because I did not agree to many of their demands because they did not respond to the policy and budget of the Casa. It started after I didn't agree to retrospect the National Framework Treaty and admit the Minister's order to align the rapid antigen test with the PSR test. It started when I asked the question: how much does the PSR test cost? After that, these attacks continued. They continued to ask for my resignation, but at the moment I think one of the reasons is: the only institution in Bulgaria that pays, pays on time, pays everything that is provided by law must be destabilized. And the second, which is, I understand Professor Angelov, but he put it all together so that not only the caretaker government, but the president was almost involved in this whole thing. I don't think I'm the target of an attack on this guy or that guy. I believe that at the moment and what I will propose, if I continue to be a manager, is to change the Law on Medical Institutions so that it responds to the spirit to create a medical establishment or to increase its capacity. The second I will propose is therefore the attack that I want the clinical pathways to be removed as a way of funding, and this problem has been postponed since 2011, with the cancellation or delay of the same regulation. This is the attack on the status quo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u380	Thank you, dear Mr. Salchev. I'll ask the other groups about Bulgaria..................................................................................................... We're coming! No. Okay, that concludes the second round of questions and moves on to expressing opinions by the parliamentary groups. There is such a people? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u381	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Salchev, this discussion took place right after the discussion about the children's hospital and in all this history there is something, how to say, symbolic. It's not a very good transition, because it's about something, about 50 million people who can't be found 10 years to make a hospital for children, and here it's about an investment of 140 million, or what it was, some kind of serious amount of money. I can't figure out what the problem is, when a health card has been accepted long ago and this health card has written down where, what, how many hospitals and how many beds there should be. Clearly, this whole map is something already crossed out, that no one recognizes this thing or what? Isn't a health card equal to a law, or am I mistaken? Who's wrong and who's right in all this to get to the bottom of this in Parliament? This is an investment that I cannot determine what it is about, and it is clear what it is about. Exactly what you're right about for lobbying trails. Why aren't you going to apply for children's healthcare trails, but going for cardiological pathways and for neurological ones? Because one path is 300 leva. Or 400 BGN, and the other is 2,600 BGN. There are fellow surgeons here and they know what a liver surgery is or a gallbladder is. Funny money against the backdrop of everything that's being played and what we're listening to. And you're right, but we're not gonna solve the matter of changing the Medical Services Act. Here we need a whole new Law on medical institutions, valuation and payment of activities, stopping all this and any such taps, and any such lobbying. There is no point in dealing with such things anymore and with such lobbying stories in parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u382	Thank you, Mr. Christov. For expression of attitude by the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS Mr. Angelov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u383	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Salchev, don't take what I'm saying personally as a personal attack on you. On the contrary, it is a process that is an example of the model of lobbying and business with health. This, of course, has nothing to do with you, but there are extremely serious concerns. You mentioned that we attacked the President. We didn't attack the president. We asked questions: how is it that in a letter of May 21st, a few days after the government swore in the Gerbova Hall, the President received a request from an official form of Commercial League signed by Professor Nikolay Dimitrov. Since you're talking about the Bulgarian Cardiology Institute, I assume you know who he is. Here's the letter. [[shows]] which says that a large-scale project is being developed to create a new medical university. I repeat: a new Medical University in Burgas, with a subsidiary in Pleven. This letter also asks the President to support this strategic project to enter the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Then it is said to pray for a meeting at the beginning of June. Has there ever been such a meeting, hasn't there been such a meeting, no one knows? Lots of coincidences. Yesterday at Nova TV Minister Katsarov lied to Bulgaria that he did not know about this procedure. And you said now from this tribune that the procedure has begun at the Ministry of Health. She has nowhere else to start. Yes, I know this procedure very well. I know she started at the Department of Health. The question is: why did Minister Katsarov lie? The question is even bigger: why did the President of Bulgaria Rumen Radev escalate public minister Katsarov, when he called him to return quickly from the sea, tell him to stop projects for private hospitals and not to think about financing for 2024 at all? Does the president know anything more? Did he hold this meeting? Why is there no silence? Why didn't the Health Minister come to the gym now? Is he hiding? Is there anything secret? A lot of accidents happened at the same time, Professor Salchev. I am convinced of your correctness and professionality. When you say the attack is personal to you, no. With the hand of the heart I can tell you and I guess you and I have known each other for many years, when they wanted your resignation, the person who protected you was me. Because when I believe something happens by the rules, I support it. Then, when I have concerns, I expose them from the highest tribune and look for an answer, is there no addiction? After all, the biggest debate in this room was whether there should be such a mega hospital in Sofia, is there a shortage of beds? You're right. It's not up to the National Health Insurance Fund, it's up to the Executive Agency. Tell him if he has a deficiency, or if he has a failure. I was very hoping that my colleagues from "There is such a people" - BSP, stand up БГ! We are coming!.. to be consistent after everyone has passionately stated that the companies for hospitals should be removed, and now quietly silent when a new trading company should be made to draw from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, notice for 2024. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Again, I ask: after all these facts that we have announced, is there an dependence and is there a model of lobbying and health business in Bulgarian healthcare at the moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u384	The weather, Mr. Angelov. This question is rhetorical probably because there is no one to answer anymore. "BSP for Bulgaria"? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u385	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Salchev, honourable colleagues! We're in a very interesting situation here. Professor Salchev, you have read a list of permits issued 2020 and 2019. I will ask you to provide it to us later, if possible. Well, they're many, many permits. How many maps have been made in recent years, when paying attention by the World Bank, to the World Health Organization that Bulgaria has increased the number of hospital institutions and beds for hospitalization outrageously. Now those who have issued these permits suddenly appear as saviors, concentrating public opinion on the fact that somewhere a procedure for issuing permissions is formally taking place. I think this is where my colleague before me put the matter very seriously. In this regard, we have a complete match. The foundation, Professor Salchev, the foundation, colleagues, to want and to give such permissions is that the NHIF has become a milk cow, which has been sharpening for decades in the most insidious way with clinical pathways, which are absolutely improperly valued that conditions are being created and this was said by a president of the Bulgarian Medical Union, who have now given a positive opinion about this hospital. Isn't that right? He said in a statement that there is no more secure business, colleagues, than health at the moment. At the beginning of the year, you sign a contract. What other business can be so sure that you will get so much and so much money from the National Health Insurance Fund? This needs to be interrupted. Hospitals should not be commercial companies, in the field of health should be evaluated the activities, the work of the specialists and they should be decomposed, and not those taxpayers' money should benefit from groups of people who have certain economic interests. This is at the heart of today's questioning, but it was asked by people who have been defending this system of funding for years to come, for health management in Bulgaria. The strange thing is, now that they've had an inverted relationship, as they came down from power, they've proved to be the defenders of a proper thesis. But that doesn't make them any more right. As Laroshfuco says, a villain can act as a brave man and a brave man can act as a villain, but that does not make them equal, for the behavior of both a politician and a man is determined by his overall course of conduct, by what he has done over the years. It's been seen, you said what was done over the years. I can tell the honourable Chamber that we currently have, I think, over 360 hospitals, of which more than 150 have other types of property outside the state. They use public resources. You said here something you hinted at, but answer some times on TV where you want to, more seriously, the question: how is it possible that 80% of hospital beds in the Republic of Bulgaria are located in five cities, Professor Salchev? In five cities! Isn't that outrageous? It's outrageous! And at the heart of this is the commercial way of evaluating the entire health care. This is what the Bulgarian Socialist Party is fighting against. We believe that we will bring this idea to its real, successful end. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u386	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in. You have the floor, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Salchev, honourable colleagues! In medicine we have a process of making a diagnosis, called the symptom of the diagnosis. When we start a discussion here, on any health problem, whether it be a children's hospital or the financing of a new private structure, these are symptoms of how divided our health society is and how much time we have to go to get what we need to call a National Health Strategy. In order to develop one, we need to have clear priorities, and they cannot help but include a few basic things. For the people who are watching us right now, I mean, health care has always been a ratio between the number of people and the resources that are being separated. At one end these are the healthy people who are the most with at least the funds that are allocated to them, and at the other extreme there are few people who are very seriously ill and, accordingly, a lot of large amounts are allocated to them. The aim of health care is to protect people at one end of the health care community, where a little money is spent. Therefore, prevention is a key component by which we have no distinction here, in this Chamber, and in the Health Commission. The first priority is that there should be more prevention. We are constantly discussing expensive clinical pathways in hospital health rather than talking about prevention in health care. Secondly, we need to know every penny where he's going. In order to know where every penny goes, we need to have a good information system, something we are constantly talking about in all the parliamentary groups. Thirdly, we need to have clear priorities in terms of demographics and long-term health, which should be related to child and mother health, because Bulgaria's future is the children. So when we have these priorities in our minds, we see each such symptom, whether it be the lack of a children's hospital, or the existence of structures that duplicate existing structures, or even university education, which duplicates existing university education. Until recently, we had one medical university in the major cities, now we have two medical universities in Sofia, a new one that was made some time ago in Burgas, and now we will have two medical universities in Pleven. Who needs this? We have a severe staff deficit in healthcare, and instead of concentrating really good and working specialists where staff is being forged, we are creating more and more higher schools. We need a very, very serious consensus, colleagues, not a party, not an interparty, but a national consensus on these priorities in health care, because without it we will have only symptoms, and we will not have treatment. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u388	Thank you, dear Mr. Simidchiev. Mr. Hassan Ademov on behalf of the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u389	Thank you, Mr. President, as stated in the Rules of Procedure. [[speaking indistinctly]] And the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not go into the details of this discussion and this opposition between a former and current minister of service, I will not go into this unusual clash between the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund and the colleagues who ask this question. I have something else to say. Dear Mr. Salchev, the attacks on you started when you started to show character. You have not been chosen for this, you have been chosen to be obedient, and at the moment that you are no longer obedient, it is obvious that the attacks against you begin. And because this discussion has turned, all discussions about health problems at all, become a kind of discussion about what the Bulgarian health insurance model should look like. Dear colleagues, in medicine not only in Bulgaria but throughout Europe, the main leading criterion is demand and supply. It doesn't matter how many hospitals there are. It matters whether hospitals offer a quality service, it matters whether these hospitals will be searched because if they are not wanted, they will shut themselves down. They are not closed until now, because there are currently limits in medical institutions, there are downloaded financial resources, downloaded budgets. Currently, the National Health Insurance Fund is financing all medical facilities eligible under the Health Insurance Act. And it is not the Law on Hospitals that regulates the presence or absence of clinical pathways. There are other laws governing the functioning of the health care system. And not the status of trading companies is defining. Dear colleagues, this is only a form of registration of medical establishments. If they're not trading companies, what's going to happen? Will those 500 or 600 million who are the duties of the medical institutions be dropped? No! Will the quality improve? No! The commercial status of the medical institutions is dictated by the fact that this is only a form of registration and otherwise the functioning of the medical institutions in Bulgaria takes place under the Health Insurance Act, under the Law on Medical Institutions, under the National Framework Treaty, under the Law on Word Organizations, that I do not list them all. So discussing whether or not to be commercial companies is important, but it is not decisive. What Dr. Simidchiev just said is extremely important. We must set foot, first, on the expert consensus. It is the experts who need to say what the reform of the healthcare system should look like. From there we must look for the political consensus, because without a combination of expert and political consensus we will always get to the situation that we are in right now. "Everyone wants to change the healthcare system and all changes make the system unloved by the Bulgarian patient. It is the Bulgarian patient who should appreciate what medical institutions do as quality medical care.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-12.u390	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Stand up, Bulgaria! We're coming? I don't see anyone who wants to. With this, we have exhausted the debate, the debate on this item and the agenda for today. We continue tomorrow at 9:00 on the pre-accepted agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
