ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] First, the following Programme for the Work of the National Assembly was discussed after consultations of the Conference of Presidents for the period 15 December 2021: "1." Abort the powers of Members of the National Assembly. Resignations submitted by the MPs Yana Balnikova and Lena Borislavova on 14 December 2021 2. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Importers: group of MPs from the "We are continuing the Change" one Project of a decision and a group of MPs from the "BSP" for Bulgaria and another draft decision on 14 December 2021. This is under the Programme for Wednesday, 15 December 2021. 3. Draft decision to set up a Temporary Commission on energy crisis issues and a proposal to deal with it. Importers: the parliamentary group of "We are continuing the Change" item first for Thursday, 16 December 2021. 4. Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, if a report is received by the Temporary Commission within the framework of today, such as the indication is given in paragraph 2 for Thursday, 16 December 2021. 5. Parliamentary control in the order of art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Friday, 17 December 2021. There are three oral questions received. Colleagues, I'm voting on the proposed programme. Vote 210 MPs: 152, against 52, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Svilenski: "Procedure."]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm doing a procedure on t. 3 on the agenda "Project a decision to set up a Temporary Committee on energy crisis issues, which you planned for the first item on Thursday, because today there are only two points and they will come to an end quickly, to become a point. Three for today, and tomorrow, let's move on to another agenda. So my suggestion is to make t. 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u3	Is there a reverse opinion? There's no reverse opinion. Please proceed to the vote on the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski. Vote 212 MPs: for 107, against 64, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Point 3 of the National Assembly's Work Programme has been shifted since Thursday 16 December 2021 for Wednesday 15 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u4	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u5	Is it a re-voting? Okay. It's a re-vote. They voted 210 MPs: 108, against 64, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mitov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm amazed at the agenda we're being offered. This morning every Bulgarian citizen has become, has gone to work at 9:00 and will spend a whole day working, and has to work something out. I suggest we make a reference to how much a day is worth to the National Assembly... And to make it clear that the agenda proposed to us for the entire week of the National Assembly is nothing, and that is one times two nothing. . [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Communicating: "Eee! ")]] [[shows the program]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] I suggest we start working. There are so many things that stand as a problem for the Bulgarian society, we also have suggestions to discuss the green certificate. The National Assembly cannot begin its work this way! I remember the previous two parliaments, which were obviously set up so that they could be short-lived, and here they flooded us with bills. Now we've got nothing and twice as much as nothing. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. I would like to remind you that every parliamentary group and MP can submit proposals for inclusion in the Programme by 6:00 on Tuesday. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You didn't propose until 6:00 yesterday. Mrs. Petkova, are you for procedure or...? [[Reply from the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova.]] What's on the agenda? Okay, procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u8	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I, too, am amazed by the agenda that is being proposed and, more precisely, item three: A draft decision to set up a Temporary Commission on energy crisis issues and a proposal to deal with it. To put it mildly, that sounds very disturbing. I do not know the Bulgarian people, when they see what we do, how will they react? He will decide that there is really an energy crisis in Bulgaria. [[Loud noise.]] There is an energy crisis when there is a problem with the supply of energy resources. There is no information to be a problem with the supply of electricity or with the supply of natural gas. What kind of energy crisis are we talking about?! If we are talking about prices of energy resources, this is a completely different matter. In Bulgaria, there are still independent bodies working on this topic. There is no way for the Bulgarian Parliament to seize the functions of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. This is an independent body - remember that it is working on special rules that are monitored by the European Commission. Suddenly it turns out that we in parliament will decide what the cost of energy resources will be. Is that what you want us to do?! [[Loud noise and lines. Applause by GERB-SDS.]] I ask you very much, when this agenda is created, to still consider that statehood in Bulgaria does not start from the Change? statehood has existed before you, there will be after you. So please, let us be responsible and comply with all the rules and requirements of the regulation. This point, in my opinion, is absolutely vague and has nothing to do with Parliament's work. There are independent bodies in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. These arguments will have the opportunity to present them during the discussion on the Draft Decision. Are you here for procedure, Professor Angelov? Please come in as per procedure. [[Reply by MP Kostadin Angelov.]] But let's not discuss the agenda again, because it's not a discussion, we accepted it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think we've been quite hypocritical in this National Assembly since day one. And I cannot understand what requires, Mr. President, that you include a draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Committee on Energy Crisis Issues, provided that in Bulgaria we have had two years of a type of crisis, and this kind of crisis in your political programme, ladies and gentlemen MPs from the quadruple coalition, there is not a single word for the conflict?! Why is there no item on the agenda for the green certificate for its adoption of "Democratic Bulgaria" and against its introduction by the Political Party GERB-SDS to remove the difference between Bulgarian citizens and MPs? You say there should be parliamentary committees. Here you are setting up a Temporary Committee for the Energy Crisis that is missing, and why not make a Temporary Committee for the Cod Crisis and the Green Certificate, as this is more important and saves lives?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u11	Deposit a draft decision to set up a temporary committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u12	The draft decision has been submitted, you are not submitting the examination of this...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u13	And he's waiting for committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u14	How can he wait for committees?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] People are dying and we have to do something! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u15	Thank you, Professor Angelov. We move on to taking an oath by newly elected MPs at the place of elected ministers. First of all, decisions were issued by the Central Election Commission: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1034-NS 14 December 2021 With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-115 of 14 December 2021 the CEC has received a decision of the National Assembly to elect the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria from 13 December 2021, with which on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 6 and art. 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria People's Representative Kiril Petkov from the Sixteenth Election Region In accordance with art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria MP elected as Minister interrupts his credentials for the time during which he is Minister, replacing him accordingly. On the basis of art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code should be declared Ventsislava Milchova Lyubenova under No 6 of the list of Coalition "We are continuing the change for MP at the place of Kiril Petkov Petkov for the time during which the same performs the functions of Prime Minister. Upon recovery, the authority of a Member of the National Assembly elected as Minister shall be suspended from the authority of the elected Member of the National Assembly by that decision. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code in relation to art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP from the Sixteenth Election Region of Plovdiv, Ventsislava Milchova Lyubenova, EGN..., under No 6 of the list of Coalition "We are continuing the Change" at the place of Kiril Petkov Petkov for the time during which Kiril Petkov Petkov performs the functions of Prime Minister. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. They also did: Decision No 1036-НС, with identical text, with which is declared Alexandra Valentinova Korcheva as MP in the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region, Sofia, from the list of Coalition "We continue the Change" at the place of Kalina Borislavova Konstantinova for the time during which Kalina Borislavova Konstantinova performs the functions of Minister; Decision No 1037-NS, with identical text, which has been declared a representative of the 15th Election Region of Plevenski, Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov under No 3 of the party list "There is such a people" at the place of Radostin Petev Vasilev for the time during which Radostin Petev Vasilev served as a minister; Decision No 1038-НС of 14 December 2021 of the Central Election Commission declaring it a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region of Sofia, Emil Tsenov Georgiev under No 2 of the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria, at the place of Cornelia Petrova Nino for the time during which Cornelia Petrova Nino served as Minister; Decision No 1039-NS of 14 December 2021 of the Central Election Commission declaring it a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-Seven Election Region of Stara Zagorski, Momchil Donev Nenov, under No 2 of the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria, at the place of Georgi Yanchev Gokov for the time during which Georgi Yanchev Gokov served as Minister; Decision No 1040-НС of 14 December 2021 of the Central Election Commission, declaring it a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-third Election Region of Sofia, Blagovest Kirilov Kirilov, under No 2 of the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria, at the place of Hristo Stanchev Prodanov for the time during which Hristo Stanchev Prodanov performs the functions of Minister; Decision No 1041-NS of 14 December 2021 declaring him a Member of Parliament from the Thirtyth Election Region of Shoumenski, Ivan Valentinov Ganchev under No 2 of the list of Coalition of BSP for Bulgaria, at the place of Ivan Valentinov Ivanov for the time during which Ivan Valentinov Ivanov served as Minister; Decision No 1042-NS of 14 December 2021 declaring it a Member of the National Assembly from the Nineteenth Election Region of Rusenski, Kalin Ivaylov Ivanov, under No 4 of the Coalition's list.We are continuing the Change at the place of Nikolay Yordanov Sabev for the time during which Nikolay Yordanov Subev served as Minister; Decision No 1043-НС of 14 December 2021 declaring him a Member of Parliament from the Third Election Region of Varna, Ilin Pavlinov Dimitrov, under No 6 of the Coalition's list. We are continuing the Change, at the place of Daniel Maxim Lorre for the time during which Daniel Maxim Lorre served as Minister; Decision No 1044-NS of 14 December 2021 of the Central Election Commission declaring it a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-Sixth Election Region of Sofia, Vasil Petrov Zashkev, under No 3 of the list of Coalition..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Decision No 1035-NS of 14 December 2021 declaring it a Member of Parliament from the twenty-nineth election district of Haskovski, Ivaylo Georgiev Staykov, under No 3 of the Coalition's list.We are continuing the change, at the place of Asen Vasilev for the time during which Assen Vasilev or Atanas Petrov Atanasov served as Minister. By the same Decision was declared MP from the twenty-nineth election district of Haskovo, Mladen Todorov Zaprianov, under number 4 of the list of Coalition "We continue the Change" at the place of Atanas Petrov Atanasov for the time during which Atanas Petrov Atanasov or Asen Vasilev served as Minister. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In today's programme, we voted for an extraordinary item three, which is the first item for tomorrow, to become the item on today's agenda. This point is: Draft decision to set up a Temporary Commission on energy crisis issues. Yes, but such a draft decision does not exist in the mailboxes of the Members of the National Assembly, nor on the website of the National Assembly, I doubt even that there are in the Ministry of National Assembly. How do you expect us to vote on something without it existing without being distributed to the MPs? We do not know this temporary committee of how many will it consist of, which parliamentary groups, for what period has it been established, what is the subject of its activities? We do not know any of this, but we are expected to participate in a debate on its adoption today. I am making a procedural proposal to drop this point because there are no materials on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u17	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I've been informed that it's also uploaded to the site, sent through the e-mails, and the Quaestors have indicated that after taking an oath by the newly elected MPs, you will be given away. I ask the newly elected MPs to order the parliamentary tribune to take an oath. I'll take the oath, please repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u18	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u19	Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the Chamber. There has been a notification from the parliamentary group of BSP to Bulgaria on changes in the management of the parliamentary group: 1. Cornelia Petrova Ninova has been released as chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) because of her election as Deputy Prime Minister of Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry. Georgi Stratilov Svilenski was elected chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] 2. Releases Ivan Valentinov Ivanov as vice-president of the leadership of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Because of his election as Minister of Agriculture and elects Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev as Vice-President of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] 3. He released Hristo Tanchev Prodanov as vice-president of the leadership of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria because of his election as Minister of Tourism. 4. He released Filip Stefanov Popov as secretary of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and elected him vice-president of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 5. He elected Yavor Rumenov Bojankov as secretary of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Draft and draft decisions from 8 to 14 December 2021 including: Draft amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. A bill to amend and supplement the Health Act. Importers - Elena Guncheva and a group of MPs. A bill ratifying the Agreement amending the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft decision to oblige the Minister of Health to revoke the requirement to provide a valid document for vaccination under the conditions described in Order No RD-01-973 of 26.11.2021. Importers Draft decision to adopt conditions for access to the National Assembly's buildings in the context of an emergency epidemic situation. Importers - Alexander Simidchiev and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft decision to give consent to increase the shares of the Republic of Bulgaria in the paid-up statutory capital of the International Investment Bank under the approved capitalization programme of the International Investment Bank for the period 2018 - 2022. Draft Law on ratification of the Parallel Agreement on a safeguard mechanism between the Republic of Bulgaria as creditor and the Single Resolution Board as borrower. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft decision to change the composition of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Importers The Parliamentary Group is continuing The Change. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Importer Georgi Svilenski. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the machine voting in the elections on 14 November 2021. Importers The drafts and drafts for decisions are published on the website of the National Assembly and will be allocated to the competent permanent committees after their establishment. Point one of today's agenda: TERMINATION OF REPRESENTATIVES OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. An application has been made by the MP Yana Veselinova Balnikova, Member of the National Assembly from the Seventh Election Region, elected from the list of Coalition. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria resigns as MP elected in the mandate of the 40th National Assembly and wishes to terminate its mandate as MP with a decision of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the deposited resignation by the MP Yana Veselinova Balnikova. They voted 163 MPs, for............................................................................... The motion is accepted. The National Assembly shall adopt: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Yana Veselinova Balnikova as MP from the Seventh Election Region of Gabrovo. An application from Lena Zdravkova Borislavova was also deposited. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria resigns as a Member of Parliament elected in the mandate of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly and wishes to terminate its mandate as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, please vote on the resignation by Lena Zdravkova Borislavova. Vote 169 MPs: 161, against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The National Assembly shall adopt: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the powers of Lena Zdravkova Borislavova as MP from the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia. With this, we have exhausted item one of the agenda. Moving on to point two: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN THE CONFIGURATION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE WORKING OF PROJECTS OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING. Deposited: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Lena Zdravkova Borislavova, Chairman of the Temporary Commission. 2. He elected Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev as Chairman of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on the proposed project. To speak, the people representative Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the importers of this decision: what requires a President of the Commission who will look at and draft a proposal for amendments to the Rules, to be a person who, first of all, is not a lawyer, has extremely little parliamentary experience.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u21	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u22	Even more perplexing for me is why, given that the ruling majority has, let's say, at first reading, which comes to mind, two doctors in constitutional law, one of whom is Atanas Slavov, the other is Mrs. Iva Miteva, who was also President of the National Assembly, and a longtime official of the National Assembly, are not, for example, more appropriate to be president of this committee? You know that the Rules are a fundamental law governing the way in which the National Assembly will act from now on. With all due respect to Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, I believe that there are far more suitable in the ruling majority who would take this position, and I would personally have more confidence in what they will work out and be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u23	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I cannot agree with you on the small parliamentary experience. The colleague has extremely rich parliamentary experience, thanks to you. During your management you entrusted him with one of the most important committees, he runs the Transport Commission in the National Assembly, which is why the transport is on this hill at the moment. [[Laughter]] In addition to having extensive parliamentary experience, a colleague, the same has extensive party experience. I know about at least 7.8 parties that he has changed, and you must know about 30, so there is no way I can agree with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u25	Here's a line for you, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Commission has already advanced its work. This is about a small number of changes that will take place in the Rules. According to our information Mr. Ananiev really has extensive experience and we believe that he is the right person to be chairman of this committee for the remaining one meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u27	Any other lines? I won't. For the back, Mr. Nenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To Mr Hamid, I was thinking of not doing the duplicate, he made an extremely accurate statement, but by the exception of the other line, as far as I understand it, the Commission has only met one single time and it has understood how it will work. In fact, until now, she has done nothing, no activity at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u29	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u30	Well, how can there not be? There is!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u31	He didn't raise his hand. We are going to vote on the draft decision. Vote 214 MPs: 160, against 52, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Also deposited: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Yavor Rumenov Bojankov as a member of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The national representative Georgi Svilenski of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is the importer. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on the proposed project. Statements? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please vote on the proposed project. Vote 204 MPs: 168, against 29, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. With this, we move to item three of the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON ENERGY CRISIS QUESTIONS AND PROPOSAL TO RESPONSE IT. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The deposited draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission shall read: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission on energy crisis issues and a proposal to deal with it The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It sets up a Temporary Committee on Issues of the Energy Crisis and a proposal to deal with it in a composition of 14 MPs elected on a parietal principle, two from each parliamentary group, with a main subject and the aim of putting forward proposals to deal with the crisis in the energy sector. 2. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman:... Members:... 3. The Commission shall be elected for a period of 1 (one) month.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u33	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. Mr. Mihnev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am delighted with the interest in item three of our agenda, although I am confused by the idea that there is no energy crisis, given that we have yet another proposal to raise electricity prices! . [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS]] From the independent regulator! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] It's beautiful, it's wonderful, the interest in this podium is the highest podium in the country, but in recent years we all know that the state has been conquered. Independent, supposedly independent, authorities from the fully dependent until a few months ago legislative power. The independent authorities are promoting some interests of corrupters that we do not see in the newspapers and in the prosecution because there is no prosecution. So what's going on? The judiciary, the legislature and the executive work in unison, but not for the interests of the people, but for the interests of corruption and when we meet with the citizens, what do they say: "We feel powerless, there is a sense of corruption in us. " - A black in white? Nothing! Some independent dependent bodies decided to raise the price of electricity for the Bulgarians in the poorest country in Europe in winter, in the worst heating season in years. This proposal by KEWRC, let's face it, is political on the first day of the Petkov cabinet, on the first day they decide that we should raise the prices of electricity for the citizens. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] No, the state thing that needs to be done is for independent regulatory authorities to be independent and not raise the price of electricity, protect citizens. [[(Laughter and shouting from GERB-SDS:]] Wonderful! That's great. Keep going. Keep thinking that it is state-owned to raise the price of electricity for the poor Bulgarians, for the pensioners [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] , for people below the poverty line. That's what they're offering you. And we're offering you a temporary committee to determine exactly what's going on, to hear the truth about the price of electricity, not to hide behind methodologies and setting prices for components and so on. And to keep the Bulgarians in the time of energy yes, cry-za! This is only the first step along the path of state recovery that has been taken from us and abducted. I would like to remind you that this is the mandate of We continue the Change and this is what united all the political forces from the right to the left. That's what we're fighting this temporary committee for. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. For a line? Here you go, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihnev, in the way in which you have spoken....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And I suggest that instead of setting up a temporary committee, what were the motives? If you really think about the citizens who are most energetically poor, otherwise it is populism, make a commission that will reduce the price of electricity. There is no way for you to say what the KEWRC's behaviour should be or what the KEWRC's behaviour should not be if it really is an independent body. You're just contradicting each other's speech with untenable ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u37	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Any other lines? For a line, Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u38	Mr. Chairman, this is my line. It is not normal in our country that first mathematicians determine what pestilence occurs with a health crisis, as well as it is not normal for a professor of medicine to talk about energy in this case, but generally I do not think that this approach should go from Given that this is what you want to enter in Bulgaria, it is inevitable to raise the price of electricity. Given that the green deal will eliminate all our power plants, this will lead to an even greater increase in the price of electricity. Let this committee discuss this and see what we expect to happen in Bulgaria, because otherwise everything else at the moment is being poured from empty to empty. I agree that this state commission is entirely on the order of GERB and I believe that even the staff of DSB, who are inside, are performing these orders, because inside there are staff of "Democratic Bulgaria." And let's face it, because there is not only GERB, there is also a Democratic Bulgaria (Democratic Bulgaria) for years now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u39	Another line? Mr. Bikov, I think he wanted a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u40	I've lost my mind! [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u41	Oh, I won't. Okay. Mr. Mihnev, for the back. Did you lose too? Okay. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, beyond these conquered states, independent authorities that are dependent, I only make one clarification to do. This independent body was elected 2015. Mr. Ivan Ivanov is a longtime member of the DSB, who are your coalition partners at the moment, and was elected during the second reign of Boyko Borisov, when we, like you now, were in a coalition with the DSB. So much for the conquered country. Now get to the point. Here I am reading the following sentence, which I cannot understand: a committee on energy crisis issues and proposals to deal with it. In my opinion, this thing was translated either to Google Translator, or someone wrote it, who couldn't put a sentence in any correct form at all. In my opinion, if such a commission is being made, it is good to put a normal title: We are not talking about an energy crisis here at all, that there is no energy crisis, we are talking about an elementary effort to get the sentence right. What are these issues with the energy crisis and which, when we answer them clearly, will we deal with it or will we at least make a proposal to deal with it? And this will make it a temporary committee on a monetary principle in the National Assembly. In my opinion, no Temporary Commission and any permanent committee can answer these questions if they are put in this way. Because if they ask me questions like that, I won't be able to figure out what they're asking me. So I suggest a little enthusiasm to get it together, to gather your thoughts, to start before writing something, to think about how it should be formulated. Because it is a symptom that when we make this temporary committee, it will turn out that it does not know what it is doing and why it has gathered, since it cannot be clearly formulated its purpose. If it is only to show the Bulgarians now that there is an activation of some people who very much want the price of electricity not to increase, although it is increasing, if you have not understood the last six or seven months and, by the way, no action has been taken on this issue by those who should take it, and this is the government as compensation, as some measures... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Some measures were taken at the end, which are currently not working. These are the government's measures. But if you want to solve this problem with a parliamentary solution in any way, because this is only possible by law, we need to change some law. This can also happen without a Temporary Commission, which is related to the issues of the energy crisis. This can happen by setting up committees if you have such a bill. But to simply make some proposals and the proposal to be: we propose not to raise the current, it will not have any value such a proposal. We're just gonna waste time here. If you have a specific bill, you must submit it. Even though there's no committee. You bring it in today, and then, when we make a commission, he'll be considered on the committee. What are we doing with this temporary energy crisis committee? Well, that sounds... One such decision is extremely unprepared. So we will be against it because we feel that you now want the facts to answer with some piercing exercises: but we do not want to raise the price of electricity. Who wants to raise the price of electricity? What are you saying here about conquered countries when electricity is rising all over Europe? It does not just rise in Bulgaria. The KEWRC is only doing what it does is taking into account facts. We too need to take these facts into account and react to them, not to what we want people to hear. Because people might hear what we're telling them, but when they get the electricity bills, they're gonna get sick. Even if we have a temporary committee on energy crisis issues and proposals to deal with it. Give us a little more time to think about these issues. They're dramatic enough and up-to-date. In just two weeks, January 1st. Let's try to help Bulgarian citizens who will obviously have a hard winter, and last but not least, try to catch up on the time missed by Mr. Rumen Radev's office. Because seven months, including in the budget update, some of you were not here, but there were no measures related to the rising price of electricity that was rising back then. And then there wasn't even an attempt at issues with the energy crisis and proposals to deal with it, even that wasn't there. I therefore urge you not to accept this committee. If you want to do it together, you can do it yourself. May God have the Energy Commission next week, let her, if you will, sit in overtime. However, if there is a solution, and it is an adequate solution, and not just throwing things around here, thinking as much as talking early on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, submit a bill, take action, and then you can get our support, if what you are proposing is reasonable. And fix your speech. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I can't figure out what kind of negativity there is to have a temporary committee? If we hadn't wasted parliamentary time, this committee would have already been voted on tomorrow, or in the fastest way that committee would have said what the real situation was. Because everyone in this room and beyond, which is much more important than what we think, we are aware of the cost of electricity, we are aware of what will happen from the beginning of January and it is better instead of commenting here for almost an hour to have or not to have, we would have moved on to real action. And as to whether the office had missed time. If there was a time wasted, it's in those 12 years what happened in the energy sector. So, colleagues, I suggest that we proceed essentially to the vote of this committee and indeed the National Assembly make sure that the price of electricity and heating for the Bulgarian citizens is not raised. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u45	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov, it is an old parliamentary cliché that when you want to postpone solving a matter, set up a temporary parliamentary committee. I agree with some of your historical reference, from your attempt to put order in the word and with everything else you said, but I cannot agree with a huge pass of yours. In my opinion, the aim of this temporary parliamentary committee is to transfer the responsibility of the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] It's the biggest miss, and that's why it's my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u47	Delyan Dobrev for a line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u48	Mr. Bikov, I disagree with you that this committee will talk about prices and I very much hope that in this committee colleagues will not be tempted to talk about electricity prices because they are determined by the independent regulator. And he's really independent, not, as my colleague said, an independent regulator that won't raise the power. So we choose an independent regulator and we tell him that you will be independent, but you will not raise the price of electricity. This, my colleagues, has never happened in the last 10 years. If you do not know, let me tell you that there are arbitrage procedures against Bulgaria two have ended, but there is also a third, which is precisely for this, to examine against the state Bulgaria whether it has ever interfered with the activities of the regulator. And the conclusions of two of the arbitrations are that there was no such interference with the regulator's activities. So, I pay you very much attention to measuring your fairy tales from this tribune, because not one day it turns out that you in these arbitrations are witnesses and it is so that Bulgaria loses one of these cases because of the fact that it interfered with the work of the regulator in order to gain some political benefit. Mr. Bikov, I agree with you that the word is confused because it is evident that this was written on a knee either this morning or last night late, with the aim, as colleagues said, to take away the fire from the Council of Ministers and to transfer this fire to the National Assembly so that the new cabinet does not tolerate any negatives. And there's one more thing I'd like to draw your attention to. If you see the last sentence, it says that the aim of this committee is to hold an expert debate and discussion on the topic. Well, we, in order to hold an expert debate, do not need a National Assembly committee. We can gather right now in a Chamber here in the National Assembly and have our debate. What do we need this committee for, and what do we have to limit the number of people who will participate in it for? Well, let's have all the MPs, if they want us to talk about it and look for solutions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And one more thing, the committee needs to come out... I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...must come up with solutions, with suggestions. There is no way for this committee and all MPs to come up with a single decision in a report that does not even exist in your draft proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u49	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gutsanov, will this committee produce a retention of the price of electricity at these levels? Does she have tools to do that? You yourself have even written discussions, debates and suggestions "nothing else. So the fairy tales about how someone here wants the price of electricity to increase, and the other one will stop it, in this room they can't get through. Secondly, the government or the KEWRC must say very clearly if the price is held at these levels, although it jumps into international markets, who will pay. Who's gonna pay?! Someone's paying. Maybe it's the taxes, maybe it's something else, but anyway this current will be paid if it's going to be zero leva for the price of electricity. You know, this kind of socialist thing, you may not understand it, but somebody always ends up paying that bill. By holding the price of electricity for everyone, it means that you keep it even for those who can pay it, who spend much more electricity than those who save and are afraid to turn on their stove. You and them will compensate them this way if you just keep the price of electricity. Therefore, of course, this debate is complex and important, only that it does not need this committee, which, as some of the replicators said, rather, Mr. Ademov, aims to throw here the responsibility for something for which we do not have an instrument to decide. That's very dishonest. Sorry. I know you have a passion for that word. It is extremely unfair to throw to the parliament, which has no instruments in terms of the price of electricity, to now take out the battle, and if the price of electricity rises, everyone should say: hey, the parliament could not stop that price. And we're all here to rob a negative so that someone else can have fun on TV and explain how the bright future will come within this five-year-old. That is not how it works, and that is why I repeat: we will vote against it, because we have no intention of taking responsibility for which we are not called. We have other responsibilities here. We hope that the entire Parliament will enter into its responsibilities and that the executive power will enter into its responsibilities. God forbid Mr. Petkov should go to Brussels soon. There, by the way, there will be a discussion of this issue today. It is not for the regent to go there. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u51	Mr. Kostadinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u52	Mr President, ARGUMENT supports the establishment of this parliamentary committee because we believe that this issue should, of course, be spoken here by the most important tribune in the country. Moreover, the committee, as planned for a month, will have to come up soon with solutions projects or at least with opinions on the emerging problem that we have in energy. We will recall, of course, now here and in the committee itself, that there are very fast and easy mechanisms to overcome the expected spike in the price of electricity, there can even be talk of cheaper, for the simple reason that there is a topic that is strangely avoided in our society and in Bulgarian politics. In the middle of June this year, the European Commission issued a recommendation that is not binding for the Bulgarian government to terminate the contracts with TPP Maritsa East 1 This represents very serious illegal state aid that the state has been providing for us for almost a quarter of a century. By the way, it has always been spoken of as a mantra, of course, which is subject to absolutely no comment and struggle, that when something comes from Brussels, it must be carried out, as we must fulfil our obligations to our European partners, because we are loyal partners and what has not become of us yet mantras, which, by the way, we have heard just a few days ago from this tribune by the Prime Minister. Strangely enough, however, when we talk about the termination of the contracts with the American Tets and the termination of the dependence of the Bulgarian state on these two foreign companies, we will actually continue to buy this current, only let the price not be 200 BGN, but to be 80, as it is now with Maritsa East 2. This question will be put in the committee by our members and we are very hopeful and, of course, we will see exactly what will be the outcome of its work and we will put the matter before the Council of Ministers. Indeed, there is no way in the end the executive power is hiding behind the legislative authority, and all the more so that the requests of companies to increase the price of electricity are already in place. There's no time. Today is the fifteenth, the committee will be set up and there is exactly one month's period of action. We hope, of course, that it will be shown to Bulgarian citizenship that real action for changes can already be taken and not to repeat the old practice. Over the past 20 years, this unregulated state aid by the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian taxpayers has continued, in general terms, each of us, in a period of government in which we have been governed by the governments of: NDSV and DPS; then the three coalitions of BSP, NDSV and DPS; then the management of GERB with the most different ones there..........................................................................................and to get to the present moment......................................................................................................................... So we will really insist on putting this issue, because there should be no double standard on some issues. When Brussels gives its ruling, they are broken by haste and by overreacting to the recommendation, although it does not have a binding character. In this case, however, the Bulgarian government has acted as a pleasantly distracted one. I repeat that this was the government in June of the office, of course, which shows that there are some factors that are above the divisions which are supposedly ideologically based in Bulgaria, and which will once again make us ask the question: do Bulgarian citizens really define Bulgarian politics, or foreign factors and foreign embassies? Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Any comments on Mr. Kostadinov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, I disagree with you, as I believe that the problems are a little more serious than those you are concerned with, namely: I suppose today it has become clear to us all that this temporary committee should be created precisely in terms of rising electricity prices for the one in the room who does not know, they are regulated by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which under the Energy Act has a five-year full mandate. In other words, there is no possibility for us as MPs who choose the composition of this committee if we do not agree with its activity on the approval of electricity and water prices, to terminate its powers prematurely, which is not right for me, as we see that on one side, the House is told that the Commission is an independent body and, on the other hand, the House is said to react to electricity prices. That is why I believe, Mr. Kostadinov, and I disagree with you that we should propose a bill to allow in art. 12b of the Energy Act of the National Assembly, which has chosen this committee, to terminate its authority prematurely when we as MPs believe it serves the interests of external monopolies, who want the increase in electricity and water prices, for example. We must have such an opportunity in order to have two effects in the first place, when this committee's authority is terminated prematurely, we will be able to react to a demand for an increase in electricity prices or at least delay it. The second function and the result we will achieve will be the preventive result and the members of this committee will know that if they eventually want to receive any benefits to approve the increase in electricity prices, their mandate will be terminated early. Therefore, I ask you to take into account that we are going to submit such a proposal, such a bill, and I ask you to discuss it. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u55	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Petkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, colleagues, and in particular our colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" you have come to power, your people have given you their vote of confidence under the motto. I don't know if you realize this, but with this decision being proposed today, it is being violated, and very seriously, the Energy Act. The work of the independent regulator is also being violated, which, as the previous colleagues and Mr. Dobrev mentioned, is an activity which is monitored by the European Commission. There is also such an agency, which belongs to all regulators in Europe, so the control that is exercising on us is extremely serious and by violating the Energy Act, we will create really very serious problems. Debate on this topic may have for the price of electricity or the price of natural gas. If you decide, we can call a member of the KEWRC here or a chairman of the KEWRC to explain the situation, but the Bulgarian Parliament has no legal basis to make decisions related to the price of electricity. So I appeal to you not to give a bad signal to the Bulgarian citizens because that is what we are doing. Parliament is called upon to respect the legality, but what you are proposing with this decision is a gross violation of the Energy Act and is in total conflict with your rule of law mantra. In fact, what am I surprised when the Constitution was broken and it didn't impress anyone? I urge you to be reasonable, and before you offer such decisions, just read the laws. We have wonderful laws. They have to be read. If you had read the Energy Act, you would have seen what is written in it, and perhaps it would not have come to such a solution, to such a debate, which is really wasting parliamentary time, and at the moment Bulgarian taxpayers pay for us to explain what is written in the Energy Act. If we really want to be useful, let's stop populism because it's populism. You understand very well that this is populism, but if we want to be useful to Bulgarian citizens and really make sense of such a debate, you of the ruling majority must give the necessary instructions to the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Finance to continue the negotiations with the European Commission related to the introduction of the capacity mechanism, which the government of office of President Radev, unfortunately, has suspended. If these negotiations had not been suspended and the requirements of the European Commission were met, this price crisis in the field of electricity would not have come to an end, but the irresponsible attitude of the caretaker government led to this thing. The first very serious surge in the price of energy, I do not know if they remember the colleagues who were not at the time in parliament...................................................................................................................rerererererererererereremember....................................................................................................................... No one thought anything and now came to a situation in which the Bulgarian Parliament should remove chestnuts from the fire of the current government. I understand your motives, but they're illegal. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u57	Thank you. For a replica.. Radoslav Vassilev from.. We continue the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Petkova, we have repeatedly proposed waiting solutions with the increase in the price of electricity, but the KEWRC has clearly shown that it has increased prices. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: When? When?]] We wanted... [[Replications, laughter from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u59	Not from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u60	Wait a minute. I'd like to... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It's a solution... I'm sorry. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u61	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u62	Over the past 12 years, we have seen constant manipulations and machinations for gaps in the field of energy. [[noise, lines, laughter from GERB-SDS]] We've witnessed... Yeah. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] What I'm trying to say is... Okay, I'm sorry. I wanted... I'm sorry. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u63	Thank you. Philip Popov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Petkova, it is good to stop demagogizing here from this tribune. It is good to stop having conflicting opinions because, on the one hand, you say that there is a crisis at the cost of electricity at global, European level, our neighbours. There was control over the price of electricity in Bulgaria, and on the other hand, you blame everything that is outside you.............................................................................................. And I call you now, while we are wasting parliamentary time here because of your demagogy, because of what you have done with the price of electricity all the time you have managed, all these 12 years and more, in which you were in power because of you Bulgarian citizens cannot pay the electricity, the Bulgarian business has gone bankrupt. And while you are demagogizing here, thousands of people remain out of work in the street because enterprises in Bulgaria cannot pay their electricity because it is in times more. Let us proceed to the vote of this committee and all these arguments that you have, though contradictory, tell them to the committee, then say them. That's why this committee is being established because there was no parliament in the Republic of Bulgaria for half a year [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] . An active, active parliament that can with a regularly elected cabinet, a regular government that can make decisions in one direction or another, so stop this demagogy. It's an appeal, of course, an address. I know I won't be heard. Let us proceed to the vote on this committee and when you have any arguments, offer your two people from your parliamentary group, go and state your arguments. Stop wasting the parliamentary time of all Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u65	Thank you. Replica "Nastimir Ananiev." [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u66	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Petkova! It is good at GERB to read the Rules. There is nothing illegal in art. 36 to set up a temporary committee. In what way does the establishment of a Temporary Commission violate the Energy Act no one understands, but you enter with some orb of the future to predict what is happening?! The other thing your colleague, who just spoke to you, is used to throwing you something from the Council of Ministers and listening. We do not have to give something to the parliamentary group to be given by the Council of Ministers. Also remember that this is a crisis and we are a parliamentary republic, which means that we have to deal with this crisis. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mrs. Petkova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u68	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm a little scared when colleagues from BSP talk about demagogy in energy [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Because I'm going to take the liberty of going back a few years. In 2014, when after interfering with the activities of the former then SEWRC, the price of the two US power plants, which enters into the mix of the price of electricity, was artificially reduced to achieve a 5% reduction in the cost of electricity for everyday life. As a result, in just three months a deficit was generated in the National Electricity Company over 400 million. lv. Colleagues, these are dangerous things and dangerous games that you want to get us into, and colleagues who may be from So once again, I call on you to be realistic, let's really do what's up to us. The only option is for the government to resume negotiations with the European Commission and introduce a capacity mechanism that will enable legal state aid to be granted to coal power plants, and this will reduce the price. As for the reply of the young colleague from "We are continuing the Change, colleague, I never understood when you made a proposal to the KEWRC and in what capacity? Again I would like to say: the KEWRC is an independent regulator and it is dangerous to speak from the stands of the National Assembly such things related to interference in his work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. To speak, the people's representative Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Firstly, I welcome the young colleague who has found the strength to come out on this stage and try to introduce himself. [[Lowered applause from "We continue the Change" and "DPS."]] I am convinced that the next times will be much better presented and much better than those who have been here for many years. My fellow Members, this debate feels like it's getting crooked. We went to talk about the word, we went to talk about more dangerous things, not to respect those institutions that we chose. Dear colleagues, everything that is happening today in this House, and those speeches that you have started with, for the price of electricity, for the appointed institutions, for the dependent and independent institutions, is a very wrong approach. In Bulgaria, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is an independent institution and it is elected under the Energy Act. Therefore, if today we go looking for cause and guilt in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the energy crisis, we will not get to the essence of the truth about energy in Bulgaria. Because, colleagues, if you change the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and appoint your people, will it be more independent? I will return to the subject of the Temporary Parliamentary Commission. I welcome those who have come up with everything so elusive that they have written nothing against the KEWRC, nor about electricity prices. In this text, which is written, the text protects us from any such effects on those arbitration committees and so on, colleagues. But all the others who came out on this platform with the idea of presenting yourself to the public that you are concerned about the price of electricity some say it populism, others to present themselves so that they are almost concerned about green energy, and the TPPs, you enter into a topic that is not allowed out of respect for the Bulgarian state to speak out of this tribune. Because electricity prices and everything that is happening in the brands last December were presented a bill for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act so that we can get this mechanism of capacity that Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova talked about, but I will not say that then GERB did not support us. Dear colleagues, in addition to everything that is currently happening in the energy sector, the same is happening with healthcare. But in my opinion, if we don't set up temporary committees until we set up permanent committees, we won't be in class and we won't meet the expectations of society. So if you want to talk about the price of electricity, maybe in this committee we'll talk. On TV we have told many times how and how all that is needed will be done to help businesses obtain those funds that certain companies earn more, but it should be known that green energy does not affect the high price of electricity in the world. And we will also take those decisions by amending the laws, where the only ways left are either to reduce the VAT or to touch the excise duties so that there can be some normal price that should be paid by the bit. What happened about ten years ago with the return of the price of bits by 30%, today gives the recoil that is obtained in the formula that calculates the Commission for energy and water regulation. So let us draw up the Commission, let us stop populism, let us stop the attacks on the institutions, because if you remove the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, then, as the Prime Minister said, there will once again be a health to everyone, but the protests will be before the Council of Ministers. Therefore, respecting all institutions, creating this committee, analyzing the energy situation in Bulgaria, entering the bills, the tax and excise bills, trying in some way to give the instrument into the hands of the independent institutions so that they can determine the bearable price of electricity. Thank you. Be safe! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u71	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. For the line.. Iskren Mitev first, then Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u72	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! First of all, to thank Mr. Atalay for supporting us in our first attempts to speak from this high tribune. And in addition to saying that as a new member of the National Assembly, it is extremely funny for me to watch GERB speak from this tribune of sincerity, honesty, respect for the law, how we should observe our time and not waste the time of our citizens. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] That's what you've been doing since we got here, that's what you've been doing. So I wish you a good day and hopefully we can move on to the vote and to our real work. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u73	The procedure is later, first the lines. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u74	Thank you, Honourable Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, I'm making it very clear that talking after Ramadan about energy is like explaining to the NOI how my bathroom flooded. However, I have a question to ask you: is this not a line, explaining to me the meaning of this committee the semyotics to put aside, meaning and grammar? We will have a regular Energy Commission that could and not only could, but is designed to deal with all these issues that have been put here. Is it not the point of this committee, in fact, to conceal with it the fact that the new Bulgarian government, because of my youth, I say nothing bad about it, and just created it, does not have a very clear concept of how it will deal with the price crisis? Because this is a price crisis, not an energy crisis. And let's transfer the responsibility to Parliament for a month here to wise up measures in a special committee. Do we have a government? Do we have a regular elected parliament? We do! Is he going to have a Power Commission? Explain to me, Mr. Atalay, why do we need a special committee? Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u75	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Another line? Mr. Vassilev, come in. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What I wanted to say is that we have clearly stated our intentions to find solutions. However, the KEWRC increased the price for heating during the winter months. This is a demonstration, not a necessity. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS: You can't order the KEWRC!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u77	Out of the way, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u78	This is a demonstration of an outrage and violation of the Bulgarian pensioner. Over the last 12 years, the authorities through numerous machinations and manipulations have managed to miss the reform of the sector..................................................................................... Your promises have not really increased the income of households, nor have they allowed the most socially vulnerable to overcome the poverty threshold. Instead, we constantly listened to praises and lies about stability and prosperity. Such stability, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that today we are facing an unprecedented crisis, a crisis in electricity distribution, in energy production. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] In the end, your governance has led to a failed reform in the sector.......................... inadequately functioning regulators and empowering certain oligarchic circles. Let's hope this is it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Atalay, would you like a douche bag?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u80	Thank you. To my colleague, the last person who gave me a line, I won't answer him. I congratulate you once again on your courage, but there is one more thing. [[Radio.]] Ljube, I didn't think we'd start talking about the hidden power of Merchaevo again. I didn't see where it was left. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] The point of the Temporary Committee.. especially you of GERB, you are not for the first time in this Parliament, you know it very well............................................................................................ [[Laughter and raging]] Because if there was a deep design, the prime minister wouldn't have talked for a few days about how, how it would reduce the price of electricity. This will be attributed to youth and inexperience. Colleagues, what is currently happening in the National Assembly are the first steps, the first attempt to be well-meaning. You have been offered a Temporary Commission to examine and to get to know, why not get to know each other, see who will assimilate and react to what is happening in energy. So it's necessary. It can only be for 14 days until the permanent Commission is made, but let us vote on it. I think we've had enough of this. Let's move on to more serious matters. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u81	Thank you. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is in the manner in which you are led, Mr. Chairman. With all due respect, you left the colleagues from your parliamentary group to speak, Mitev and Vassilev, without any regard to the debate and made a reply to Mr. Atalay, but turned to another parliamentary group. You should have interrupted them, which is the fairest thing. With all due respect that they may be speaking for the first time from this tribune, but you as the first of equals should have taught them or at least reminded them that the Rules of the National Assembly, as it is now, should be respected. This helps the tone of the debate and the solution of the problems for which we have all gathered, I hope, for this reason in the National Assembly. To tell them, too, in a very brief way, if we create this committee and promise to return to the voters the price of electricity, as it was during GERB 80 BGN and not 500 BGN, I think it is favorable for everyone. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u83	Thank you. Is there a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u84	Hello. It's the way it's supposed to be. As the colleague said, today we have witnessed several times how GERB use the procedures to make speeches. Please stop them when this is happening! [[Laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u85	Thank you. I hope there are no more procedures. You're for speaking, aren't you? Martin Dimitrov has been waiting a long time for a speech. Then there's Venko Sabrutev, then there's you and Hristo Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It makes sense from such a committee because the regular Energy Commission will be ready at the earliest in 10 days and there are not 10 days to lose. That's the first question. The second question is: yes, colleagues, keep in mind that none of us can tell an independent regulator, any independent regulator, what to do. However, like the whole of the European Union, we can have policies - policies to tackle problems, policies to control energy price growth. That's what we can do, but we can't tell independent regulators what to do. I believe that none of you in your speech meant such a thing. In fact, what can really be done and whether this can be done by parliament, because colleagues said that almost nothing could be done about Parliament. Many European countries have undertaken differentiated VAT. You know, in principle, I am not a fan of such measures, much less my colleague Georgi Ganev, who I have been preparing for ten days on the subject that in crisis situations and this is what I need to do. Differentiated VAT for four months is a measure that can suppress the increase in electricity prices. [[DPS lines.]] Yes, a legislative measure, and a Temporary Commission may prepare and recommend such a measure. That's her job! So there is something to do with such a legislative measure. Yeah, without us, without parliament, that can't happen, colleagues. Another point is that the caretaker government was late. We asked specifically in the blitzcontrol when a notification from the European Commission was requested of such differentiated rates and we get the impression that this happened too late, which is a mistake. When we asked the office because we knew that this conversation was coming: tell us specifically what policies you are taking to control energy problems, to suppress the growth of electricity prices, they told us that they also asked for a second notification from Brussels, but again lately the ERPs to buy the losses not from the Exchange, but at a price they probably mean a public supplier, which is also wise to be seriously considered. This is also requested very late, this is part of the problem, colleagues. These are the possible measures. By the way, only one member of the DPS spoke about the specific decisions that can be taken because this is the way to speak. Such a committee must have concrete proposals. Regarding the capacity mechanism to be applied, excuse me, but you of GERB and mainly you, Madam Minister, [[(Repeat from.. Continue ……]] You're too late there. This topic should have been resolved in your time, the matter should have ended. Now you're saying why he's not here? He's not here because it's not done. It had to be done at your time. That means there are possible policies. There are possible measures. They shall apply at European Union level. We can apply them, too. It makes sense in such a temporary committee. I urge you to take part in it and see what can actually be done and done from now on. Only here I would like to draw attention to some new colleagues who were worried about the KEWRC, what would they do, how they would remove them, and almost how to punish them? Look, a lot of them have expired. So there's no case, and they should know it. It's good to know in general. There's no case! In other words, the parliament must elect new members and a new president of the KEWRC, who have expired their term of office. Normal, democratic procedure. So, fellow Members, finally, it makes sense from such a temporary committee. I suggest we don't waste any more time and create it. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u87	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A line from Temenuzhka Petkova come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, first of all, our government has not been late at all with the so-called capacity mechanism. We worked on this measure and until 12 May 2021, when we actually betrayed, so to speak, power in the hands of the caretaker government, things were finalized. We have finalised with the European Commission the date on which this mechanism was to become a fact, and this is 1 July 2021. We have prepared amendments to the Energy Act, which are agreed with the European Commission. It was simply necessary to complete the negotiations in order for this legislative change that we have prepared and approved by the European Commission to become a reality. On July 1st there was a working parliament. On several occasions, we have called on the Minister of Energy to speed up the negotiation process with the European Commission, to finalise this whole process. If this was over, it wouldn't have come to the date August 5th when the price of electricity just exploded. So none of us, from the government of the Political Party GERB, are late. We are working on this mechanism. We have done a corresponding analysis, which is related to both the power balance and the economic analysis, as required by the European Commission. We used the services of one of the best companies that deals on a European scale precisely with these analyses. So all that is required of us has been done. It is simply that the caretaker government has stopped this process for reasons unknown to me, which, however, reflect on all Bulgarian citizens and on the Bulgarian business at the moment. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u89	Thank you. For a line, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I understand that you are defending the President of KEWRC and your partner from DSB Ivan Ivanov, but you may have misunderstood my proposal. Whether the mandate of KEWRC has expired or not, we cannot allow as Bulgarian citizens to be subjected to a new five-year tribulation, in line with the new five-year term of this committee, which we must elect as MPs. We cannot afford to put up with him for another five years if he is in favor of external, close economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u91	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Line from Dragomir Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I am making the line to you because it may not be clear from your statement: this commission will not deal with the price of electricity, this commission will not tell the KEWRC what to do, nor will it propose changes in the structure of the KEWRC. The KEWRC is an independent institution and we cannot in any way define and say what will happen there, but we can offer flexible legislation to assist the Energy Commission in decision-making. Because, colleagues, it is no secret that we have a huge debt inside the sector, we have a huge intercompany debt, we have foreign investors who, because of the high price of electricity, are suffering greater and greater losses, we have domestic state enterprises that are sinking more and more, and when the price in this global world is increasing and hitting us, we need to update our legislation so that both the Commission and the Ministry can have a flexible approach, make the right decision at the right time. Therefore, the work of this committee is not written that they will deal with the price of electricity because, colleagues, it is not our job, it is the work of the independent body, so we will deal precisely with this legislation to help and increase the efficiency of the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u93	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u94	It has become clear, fellow Members, that we cannot take out the functions of the regulator and no one has such objectives, but we can take policies to control the energy crisis. This is the work of parliament, respectively, and of the government. Mrs. Petkova's line. You have a huge delay for these capacity mechanisms, you have had a great deal of time for this to be done within your term of office, and you have not finished it. As, by the way, when Regulation (EU) 2019/943 was adopted, which says that since July 2025 there can be no state subsidies to TPPs unless otherwise agreed. A question that remained pending in your time, and I am very interested now to say what else you have spoken, what exception, what derogation have you negotiated for Bulgaria? Like, by the way, because you're raising the subject, otherwise I wouldn't be going into these details when the energy crisis in Bulgaria started, Pavec Tchaira was in repair this summer. Is this a responsible and serious policy, ladies and gentlemen? Is this the time for repairs? Then, when we need it most, it should be in repairs?! Like the same people for 12 years, the same people, for 12 years, did not build the gas connection with Greece, which, yes, is a tool, a tool for more opportunities. Yeah, it's the same people. As the same people appointed the management of TPP 2, which in the conditions of rising prices the summer very late began to work, which is a strategic mistake, ladies and gentlemen. And finally, if some colleagues can provide the National Assembly with the Road map with the development of the network, we would be grateful to clarify the situation in the Bulgarian energy sector, and as a new colleague said here, he wanted to know all the things that were signed. I agree with you. And I want to know all the things that are signed, everything that has happened, so whoever can help in this relationship, we'll be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u95	Thank you. Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u96	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Dimitrov! I am making a personal explanation to you because you have explained the capacity mechanism several times. I have already tried to clarify that this process is going through very serious stages and that one should really sit down and read the relevant directives and regulation in order to be able to see what such a procedure is going through. So once again, we haven't wasted a day. It's a process that's been going on for maybe a year and a half, almost two years. It was necessary to finalise this entire process so that we could reach a successful finish, as we had achieved and which the caretaker government did not want to make efforts and end. If this had happened, we would not be witnessing these electricity prices today. As far as the derogation is concerned, you may be referring to the derogation of our coal plants. I just want to say that it is not determined respectively by the European Commission, a derogation is granted by our national authorities. The TPP Maritsa East 2s has an unlimited derogation for work. So the two US power stations were also under way in their derogation procedure, which, I hope, has already been successfully finalised. As far as the so-called road map is concerned, which you always want to know about. Well, she, the road map, is practically in front of you, because all that was going to happen, it's become the project is realized, contracts are concluded. Just demand, read the contracts, see what they say. If there's anything that's bothering you, please let me know. But what we have achieved with the realization of the Balkan Stream is undeniable and you all very well realize it and know what the benefits for Bulgaria are. Bulgaria receives tax revenue. What we will receive from this project is over 9 billion, over 9 billion Bulgaria will receive as revenue! Otherwise, we lost everything. Bulgaria would lose all its transit! Is that what we want? Is that what patriotism is all about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u97	Thank you. Mr. Sabrutev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that at 9:00 today Mrs. Petkova said, quote: "There is no energy crisis. The crisis has only when there is a problem with the supply and now there is no problem with the supply...................................... but the prices of electricity are rising not only in Bulgaria but throughout Europe. I am amazed how colleagues from GERB attempt to legitimize the raising of energy prices. Most likely the increase in energy prices was part of your election promises and people expect it to be fulfilled. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u99	Thank you. A line? Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! There is really no energy crisis because such a crisis exists when there is a problem with the supply of energy resources. The colleague Bikov mentioned that there was a price crisis. So I very much please, when we talk or when you write down, just write correctly. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u101	Thank you. Another line? I won't. A hole? I won't. Alexander Nenkov for speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Before I can justify why we will not support the establishment of this committee, I would like to start with a quote from two days ago: "You have mastered the energy crisis and have provided significant financial support and compensation to all non-bit consumers. Can you tell me who that line belongs to now? Who am I quoting? I would like to remind you that I quote President Rumen Radev the other day when he last gathered his ministers from the second office he had appointed. I understand, colleagues, and I congratulate you for starting to wake up, that there is a problem with the cost of electricity that business has suffered very badly in recent months. You're starting to wake up and realize that you're actually in an awkward situation, and for more than six or seven months now, this trend has continued, and with these seven months of working governments, time has been lost. It was just said that there was no parliament. No, on the contrary, there was a parliament! But do you know what this parliament did? I'll tell you. He was dealing with denigrating GERB well, we accept it. He dealt with who to guard the NSA and who not. He was dealing with taking over the Attorney General's Department of Defense. And with other important topics. Mrs. Maya Manolova was head of a audit committee. Colleagues, however, not a word on this subject! Not a word on other topics, but because today we are focusing on this topic, not a word on this topic. Only, Mr. President, as far as I can see from what you said the other day, it means there's actually no problem, but, uh, colleagues, there is a problem. We, as opposition, do not use our time for anything else, not to blam the establishment of this committee. [[Laughter]] Because it's not up to us, but this is the place to discuss these things. The opposition is the one that should tell you when you make mistakes. And the establishment of this committee is a mistake! Attacking independent regulators is a mistake! This isn't good for you. This is not good for you! I think Mr. Atalay mentioned it earlier. When you start interfering with the work of independent regulators, that means that all responsibility falls on you. The establishment of this committee, in my opinion, is precisely the attempt of the current government to escape responsibility and transfer it to you. To you, not to the opposition! We will vote against.. it does not matter how we vote. The responsibility is now entirely in your hands. This reminds me a little of tomorrow's council, which will be held in Brussels, if I am not mistaken in the memory, in which the prime minister will not participate, but the president will participate. Why? Because there are probably questions, including the topic with Macedonia, which will be put to this council, and in fact our prime minister, who we voted on the other day, has no answers ready. That's the truth. That's what you do with this committee. The subject is too complicated, too demanding attention, but responsibility must be borne. Why, my fellow Members, is the Commission for a month? Why don't we do it in three months, for example? To pass the winter, it must be by itself at some point that the price of electricity should be normalized, talking in the world markets, and in fact all the time it turns out that the government hasn't moved its little finger to do some work. The work means supporting the business, the domestic, non-vibe consumers, what is required by a government, and the regulator, the independent regulator, is the one who has to investigate the objective circumstances and make proposals. Even incorrect, by the way, you spoke to some colleagues about having raised the price of the current regulator. Well, he hasn't come up with a solution yet. There are suggestions. You didn't even bother to read it and realize it! So, colleagues, you know, this is about KEWRC, Mr. Ivan Ivanov, whom I personally respect very much when GERB voted for him as chairman, it is no accident that he did so. It's not a coincidence! Because when you talk and you want to, and you sincerely expect to have an independent regulator, you make sure that it doesn't depend on your decisions in any way. The Prime Minister, the President or anyone else can't impose on him what to do and what not to do. And you actually kind of want to do that with this committee. No, colleagues, it is the regulator who has to say: these are the circumstances, and the government must be the authority to create the mechanisms to especially compensate for the business at the moment, as it is extremely suffering from this increase in electricity. And for the last time, and I'm done with it is for you, my fellow Members, you manage, you are responsible, you have to wake up and find out that there is such a problem. And unlike the seven months of the fine fanfare, the good stories that speak about the successful government, are actually a bubble that will burst very, very, very soon. Not only for the price crisis in electricity, but also any other crisis the state is facing. So, colleagues, you vote for this committee, you carry your responsibility, but just so you know, pretty soon all that weight is going to fall on your shoulders, people are going to realize that all that has been said in the last few months is just a bunch of empty talk, slogans, spells and nothing more. And stop making excuses for 12 years. The price of electricity when GERB managed was on average around 80 BGN. Now the price goes to nearly 500 leva. Where do you compare 12 years to the last few months? Did you just find out there's such a problem? Today? Today?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u103	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. A line? First Stoyan Taslakov of Resurrection.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am listening to GERB talk about measures, decisions and mistakes, and I cannot believe that there is such cynicism. The biggest failure was theirs for the suspension of the NPP project. If the nuclear power plant had been built, we would have paid it off by now and had a profit from it. We weren't going to talk about raising prices here today, and we were going to talk about electricity exports and profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u105	Thank you. The line is here, Emil Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen! I had no intention of speaking today from my first day of attendance in the National Assembly, but Mr. Nenkov somehow pulled me out of my tongue. I also speak in this case as Chairman of the first consumer organization in Bulgaria. Mr. Nenkov, you told us a little while ago that we were starting to wake up. We in the Federation of Consumers have awakened a long time ago, and unlike you, my colleagues and I meet between 5, 10, 15 users daily. And now, 24 hours after the government has sworn, you plead that there's nothing wrong with raising the price of energy, excuse the expression, it's cynicism.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u107	Speculation you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u108	Yeah, yeah, I'm speculating, but speculation right now is doing... In a few minutes, at 13.30 is the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission there will be speculation. And here we are continuing to strain the environment. You're always putting yourself in the president's shoes. Stop it, it's not healthy! Fix yourself from here on how to dull the grief of Bulgarian consumers, because, again, 22 hours after the government vows to suggest that there is nothing wrong with raising the price of the poorest consumer in the European Union is cynicism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u109	Thank you. And Philip Popov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nenkov, when you from GERB talk about energy, you need to start and finish your speeches with one name: Ginka, Gincheto, as some of you are addressing it, Ginka Varbakova, I do not know. Some have known her for 20 years, some maybe shorter, I don't know, it's your work in the parliamentary group. But when you talk about energy, remember Ginka, Gincheto and the deal with CEZ. This is what you have been doing for so many years in energy because you said that you and your governments are supporting the Bulgarian business in terms of energy. Well, you're helping, you've been helping, how it's been, how it's been, Ginka Varbakova's Inercom, this colossus in energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u111	A hole, Mr. Nenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'm starting backwards. Mr. Popov, when you clearly have no arguments, you come to a similar kind of replicating. I don't know what to tell you, it's extremely difficult for me to answer that question. As far as Mr. Georgiev is concerned. I don't remember saying or anyone saying that we support the increase in the price of electricity. I don't think there's anyone in this room outside of this room who's happy with this thing. I won't! We haven't specifically accused anyone of being guilty of raising the price. We signal that in the last seven months no one has moved their little finger to make support for business or consumers to meet this price of electricity. And we say otherwise: that ultimately there is an independent regulator and it is in favor of all of you. All of you! That's why they're made up. Do you remember, Mr. Georgiev, before we did exactly this reform in the way the regulator was elected, he was actually elected by the Council of Ministers? Were the people more pleased then? Were they more pleased then? No, I didn't! We took that step. By the way, if memory serves, all the parliamentary groups have supported that. This was also with your colleagues who are now in your parliamentary group. And I dare say, since I have been in the Energy Commission for many years, we have always had to a large extent a similarity in the way we think and a similarity in the way we vote. But now we're in another situation, the electricity markets have risen significantly. In the end, we need the state, but not the parliament... Parliament can adopt legislation, but with decisions to set up such committees, we will achieve nothing. There is no need for anyone to justify themselves with GERB. The situation is what it is now. And I don't see why you're looking for responsibility at GERB. Seven months he's been running another one, two parliament's coming up. Did you pass any measure? No. The government is washing its hands with you right now. He washes his hands with you! And this has absolutely no meaning for GERB. You will bear this cross. And as far as the project is concerned, I think it was my colleague, would you come out and tell me: what model did you think this plant should have already been built; what would its cost be; what would the rate of return be, and how did you decide that today we would have generated exports of electricity and large revenues and profits? That's what if you come out and tell me, I'll apologize for your questioning expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u113	Thank you. Now a statement on behalf of the "There is such a people." After that, on behalf of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, hello! I liked that very much, which is from.. We continue the Change. Warm health and I'm going to use it because it's polite and kind. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Colleagues, thirty minutes here and more, an hour, listening and listening to our heads and the heads of the entire audience stick: KEWRC, KEWRC, KEWRC. How, you see, we, our coalition, wants to destroy the KEWRC. I didn't see anything in this commission's assignments that we were going to investigate the KEWRC. Moreover, as far as I know, and as far as you have seen all of the materials, the mandate of the management of the KEWRC has expired and is about to change, and as soon as possible, because the term has expired a long time ago. You can imagine when we're going to replace the KEWRC, what's going to happen? The political significance is in KEWRC. But let's leave the KEWR. It would be good if the electricity, coming out of a power plant or a windmill, went to the KEWRC or to the power distributors. Unfortunately, all those who are in this energy sector, I do not understand anything about energy, know that this electricity passes through NEK, BEH and whatever other intermediate structures. And to ask: whose are the manuals of these structures? [[Heckling]] Who put the manuals on the power plants? Who put the manuals on these structures? And very strangely, why are there such coincidences with the crises that have occurred in the price, with the political situation in these months?! Very convenient for the opposition from GERB during the service government in severe political moments the price was rising sharply. The same thing happened the day the government was elected came up with the information about the current. Whose interests then serve this fifth column in energy? This is what I expect to hear from this committee. "Who protects what interests in the structures of the energy system, excluding the KEWRC? This is the task of this committee, and no matter how much time you have to argue here, the Commission will have it, it will be voted on and we will support it. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Gazhev, you're making a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A little on the subject, but first let's close the KEWRC issue. Where did the KEWRC issue come from? From the gentlemen's speeches from.. We continue the Change.................... what was it with? It is also independent of how KEWRC is at the root of the problems. That's where the whole debate went in the direction of the KEWRC. If the change of KEWRC is so important, I think that last Wednesday, Mr President, you have read that there is a election to be made by the President and members of the Commission. If it were so important and you wanted urgent measures, you could have tabled procedural rules on the same day for the election of new members, which could have happened until the end of the year, but clearly this is another topic that you are not so interested in. As for the KEWRC itself, I have no doubt about their independence and the professionalism of Mr. Ivan Ivanov. By the way, one of the importers of this text is one of the people who supported the current composition of the KEWRC. I suppose he has the same lack of doubt as I do about their professionalism a man who has been a representative for years of the reform society in Bulgaria and a bearer of the values of this community, which, I suppose, and you of the "Keep the Change" support. But so much for the KEWRC theme. Here the question is about the very draft decision that has been given to us. Here our colleague Martin Dimitrov was extremely right. We do not have ten days to approach the solution of the crisis, but you propose a month. Simply put: measures that this committee, whatever they are, whether they are legislative, whether it will be a draft decision, whether it will be any kind of report, will at the earliest be submitted to the National Assembly at the end of January. So whatever you're talking about on January 1st and helping domestic consumers by January 1st, this committee will not have worked. Isn't that right, a month? In fact, this committee at the earliest January, the end, will provide any measures for domestic consumers or non-domestic consumers who are on the unregulated market. And here the more dangerous is for them. What's the problem with business anyway? Last week, the Prime Minister said something very disturbing at the time, and the financial means to support the business for high electricity prices were planned by the end of November, i.e. for December there is no planned funds for the support of the business. Great! And January, respectively, next year. Eventually, in the next budget, we can see these. And we, instead of seeing what emergency measures to be taken to help the business, what are we doing? We're putting together a committee for a month. And until then, by the end of January, what? Business will be without assistance. Why?! Companies will go bankrupt, people will lose their jobs because of it. We have to do this right now. And here is the work of the Council of Ministers, and with such a decision, the Minister of Energy and the Government will say: "We will wait for Parliament to tell us what measures to do. " We need urgent measures now, here, today and within the two remaining weeks until the end of the year, to be able to meet non-vital consumers, to be supported because they pay high bills. We will see the decision of the KEWRC. We still don't know what it's gonna be, but the most important thing is that we need measures now, not in a month and a half, as you suggest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u117	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Delyan Dobrev is listed as speaking. The parliamentary group of GERB-SDS is already in the extra time, just to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will also not support this temporary committee for three reasons: the first is that it will be just a talker and, by the way, it writes it in the motives themselves. The reasons for the creation of the Commission say: "We will get together and there we will talk, we will debate. ".. It does not say that we will make decisions, it does not say that we will draw up a report, as is the practice, we will simply debate. If we are just going to debate and talk to each other, we better do it in the permanent Energy Commission, which we are going to set up next week, and next week will be its first meeting. I mean, I don't expect any results from this committee. The second reason I do not support this decision is because from many of you, including the most surprising of doctors and all other professions and specialists in plenary, I have heard those about interfering with the work of the regulator. I am afraid, indeed, that you will be tempted to put pressure on the independent regulator in Bulgaria, and I believe that this regulator is independent because 2015 I was part of the MPs in this Chamber who changed the law and chose the regulator. And let me tell you, because I'm sure, without insulting anyone, that 80% of you don't know, but that's not your job. The regulator has nine commissioners. He's a collective body with nine commissioners. GERB has two of these nine. Mr. Ivan Ivanov, who I very much respect and have supported to be President and who over the years proved that a regulator in Bulgaria can be an independent body. In other words, many of you will be tempted to do what they should not do to violate the independence of this regulator. By the way, I want to tell you that 2015, after choosing the composition of the regulator, we received letters from the European Commission, which gave an example to Bulgaria and said that Bulgaria has one of the best practices in the creation and choice of an independent regulator in energy because it is elected by the National Assembly. In many countries is appointed by the Minister of Energy or by the Prime Minister. In units of countries in Europe it is elected by the National Assembly. The second reason is that in this committee I am sure that you will be tempted to put pressure on the regulator. Here I heard these of the variety: Didn't you hear this regulator that we during the election campaign said that the current was not going to rise, but we just came to power and on the first day this regulator raised the current?...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is, December 15th, or when it was, what date it was, the day when the regulator announced its forecast, is the day that obliged him by law to do it, not that there was some conspiracy against you. And the third reason why I do not support the establishment of this committee is that it does not focus on the main problem. The decision on the price of the domestic subscribers will take it the independent regulator. The big problem in this country is that business pays five times more electricity than it paid during GERB. This was said by colleague Nenkov: during the time of GERB the price was 80 BGN. I do not want to go out of the expert tone here, there are a number of reasons why the price across Europe is five times higher. It's not only in Bulgaria, it's all over Europe. Do you know the difference between Europe and Bulgaria? The difference is that all countries in Europe have taken measures to ease business. And Mr. Dimitrov, I would not strongly agree with you that the differentiated VAT rate can in some way help solve the price crisis in energy, because it has only to do with domestic subscribers, and the big problem is in the business. Five times more expensive electricity for the business. I know businesses that won't work in January because they can't afford to pay five times the electricity they've set in their prices. The difference between Europe and Bulgaria is that there are policies in support of the business and there are no policies here. Help from 110 leva. for October and November is extremely insufficient, and I said the month of August that such assistance should be put into the update of the budget and this was not done. If you want to help solve the crisis, I say it again, put money in the next budget because you didn't do it in the summer and you were wondering what a turn to make the office pay for these two months of 110 leva. Find a way to bet it in the new budget for 2022, not 110 BGN, but as the business wants and proposes two thirds of the higher price to be borne by the budget at least by the end of spring, at least by April, when prices are expected to normalise. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u119	Are there lines? [[National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor.]] Mrs. Atanasova, are you speaking?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u120	Yeah. Okay, here you go. You have two and a half minutes of group time left.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, what has not been heard in this House, including ideas on how to dull people's sorrows with the establishment of this committee. I will not comment on much of the speeches, which were not expert and this was obvious even to the strangers on the topic..................................................................................... My fellow Members, first of all, I am under the impression that you do not know at all how the state authorities operate. You have no idea about the separation of powers, but aside from that, I give it to the little experience, including parliamentary. However, I am tempted to offer you something: instead of setting up such a committee, to adopt a draft solution that I believe will solve the real problems that exist in the sector of............................. about the price of electricity. That is why I am making an editorial proposal in the Draft Decision on dealing with the price crisis of electricity. The National Assembly shall decide on the grounds of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure: A single point. The National Assembly imposes a moratorium on the price of electricity, water services and heat at the levels of 1 January 2021 Moreover, honourable Members, I am specifically saying this to my BSP colleagues that such an opinion was expressed this morning by the Minister of Social Policy, who you nominated and elected by your parliamentary group yesterday. I think, colleagues, that in this way we will really do something meaningful for the Bulgarian citizens, for the Bulgarian business, we will react to the price crisis of electricity. I hope that everyone here in this Chamber is aware that the National Assembly can make such decisions and it is much more logical to do so than to set up temporary committees that will do nothing within a month. Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman, put this draft to the vote. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u122	Are there any lines to Mrs. Atanasova's statement? Mr. Atalay and then Yavor Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, it's a good thing you ran out of time. I didn't exactly expect your parliamentary group to hear it. It's not convenient for me to say so much stupidity that you can come up with. For me, populism has to have boundaries. If you want to exchange places with Mr. Gokov and GERB, it is your job, but do not give advice to these people here whether they are experienced. They have a chance to learn. And you came in inexperienced, and you didn't know what it was about. We were here then, we'll still be here just because we didn't offer such nonsense that you're offering right now. [[Applause from DPS.]] My suggestion is, Mr. President, due to the time running out, because this decision was proposed after the passing of time, even if you don't put it to the vote. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u124	Mr. Bojankov? You've given up a line. Any other lines? A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atalay, thank you for giving me the opportunity to have more time in the back of the bed. Honourable Members, I would like to draw your attention to the bankruptcy of the debate and to the committee in question, which our colleagues from You have heard that all the arguments both in terms of the purpose of this committee and in terms of.. there were even grammatical remarks, both in terms of the term of this committee and the operation of this committee and its activities are absolutely incorrect to what we will expect as a result. You are obviously going to set up this committee by voting. However, honourable Members, bear in mind that it will spend taxpayers' money on its functioning, first of all. In the end, there will be a need for a report, second of all. And thirdly, you will need the proposals that you expect to be made for energy crisis issues not just populism, but to be in place proposals with which the Council of Ministers should engage. Good luck to you! I think you're going to crash hard, but you're in trouble! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u126	For a statement? Mr. Taslakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I would like to return the topic of nuclear power plant Belene. Yeah, we're not energy experts, but there are others who are. There is an institute called the Bulgarian Atomic Forum. It gathers the best energyists in this field. They've been doing analysis, numbers and data for 20 years. They come up with opinions periodically and have an opinion on the issue of nuclear power plant Belene. There you can all get acquainted with the need to build this project. I just want to add that Bulgaria was sentenced to pay 600 million at the end of the project. euros, which will weigh on GERB's conscience again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u128	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Go ahead, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group We continue the Change......................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u130	Okay. I'm calling a break until 12:00. At 12:00, we reunite. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u131	Honourable Members, we are continuing the discussion on the Draft Decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Yordanov, will you have a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mrs. Desislava Atanasova, as well as the entire parliamentary group of GERB, for the proposal so made. Colleagues, I am glad that the opposition is thinking responsibly, I am glad that you think about the Bulgarian citizens. I can therefore assure you that we will support your proposal for a moratorium because we all know that there is a price crisis in energy. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Of course, there are some doubts about this proposal, but because the government should think practically and smartly, and not make a counter to the opposition permanently, you will be supported for this proposal and in fact the whole parliament, probably without the DPS, a huge group of Bulgarian MPs will stand behind this proposal. Of course, then we will also vote on a Temporary Commission to deal with other energy problems. So thank you again for that. I don't know how you got this idea, but I'm extremely happy it came from you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u133	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there lines? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Mrs. Miteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u134	With regard to the fact that the debate is already over, and with regard to the proposal for a moratorium, I propose, as it is two different things, that the proposal for a moratorium be put to the vote separately and formally formed as a draft decision and the draft decision on the establishment of the Temporary Commission, as it also has something to do and there are important discussions to be held. So I propose two separate votes for the Commission and for the moratorium decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm calling off the debate. First of all, we are voting on the proposal by the MP Iva Miteva to split two separate votes first, to adopt a decision on the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Dessislava Atanasova, and then on the main text establishing the Commission. We vote on Eva Miteva's proposal. They voted 221 MPs: 172, against 10, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. On this basis, we are going to vote on the project proposed by Desislava Atanasova. Colleagues, please vote on the proposal of MP Dessislava Atanasova. Vote 190 MPs: 186, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Finally, we are going to vote on the main proposal for the establishment of a Temporary Commission. Vote 219 MPs: 163, against 49, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. For an explanation of negative vote, the People's Representative Manoil Manev. I'm asking for confirmation that he voted against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm explaining my negative vote. The principle of creating such committees as fig leaves of the Council of Ministers, of individual ministers, of separate policies of the ministries will not bring us any good. Not that I'm a fortune teller, not that I'm predicting anything, I'm just saying. When the Council of Ministers is trying to escape its commitment to the Constitution to exercise the country's foreign policy and the Prime Minister's place goes, it is bad. When it cannot solve the problem that is today, tomorrow, and now transfer it to the National Assembly to put it into the Temporary Commission, this confirms that story that if you want to not solve a problem, put it into committee. It's a good thing you agreed to our price offer today. The bad thing is that everything we do in this room, we say all the MPs, tomorrow the guilty ones will be us again. If we are going to make such committees, believe me, we are going to do at least ten more because there are many problems and for each of these problems we will have to do such committees. This is the logic that you put into the National Assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u137	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Another one to explain the negative vote? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Because of the short time I have in a negative vote, I will not go back to the definition or to the influence on the KEWRC, but we need to be aware of one.. there are real and unrealistic possibilities outside the moratorium that we have already voted on, for domestic consumers, for those who are on a free market, to intervention in such a way that we can protect our business. Naturally, an unrealistic opportunity is to fulfill your election promises and to put into the budget 8 billion, which you say have flown out of the state budget every year, and these 8 billion will reach approximately 350 BGN. Every megawatt hour's energy to be directed back to business. Naturally, it is not real to talk about closing the borders, as it says in your coalition agreement. However, it is true that Mr President, I will ask you, on your behalf, if you do not wish to do so on my behalf, to request that the Commission's comments on all media be submitted to Parliament, so that they can be dealt with by the committees, including the Temporary Commission, if necessary, in order to be able to take a clear view of the future problems in it. Moreover, we will continue to hold on to VAT reductions despite the moratorium introduced to help even more households. Last but not least, in relation to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, now is the time for the state to intervene in the most correct way, because already the costs incurred by the State, although the Plan has not been adopted, can then be recovered for these projects, which we are sure are approved. And these are precisely the energy efficiency projects for residential buildings, projects related to energy efficiency and business, projects related to funds aimed directly at the business of de minimis or up to 200 thousand. EUR for each enterprise in order to be able to build on the roof or in its own courtyard photovoltaic installation, and last but not least, the funds that must reach the Bulgarian households to build solar photovoltaic panels on the roof, which will help reduce their energy bills by an additional 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u139	Thank you. Professor Angelov. [[Replys on the left.]] Just a second. There's no right to a negative vote? He's right. He didn't make a statement. He was making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u140	I am convinced that memory is cheating on many people, but why did I vote against it? For two reasons. The first reason is that I cannot admit that the Bulgarian President is lying, because he said three days ago that the government has successfully dealt with the energy crisis and that the business is compensated and everything is type and top. In its second part, this commission aims not to raise the price of electricity for domestic consumers. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, this has already happened. The Commission's work has been exhausted. The National Assembly has decided to have a moratorium on the price of electricity and this committee has virtually nothing to do, as the decision is already a fact. She had to propose it and that was the solution, only it has already been voted on. It doesn't make any sense! She'll probably analyze our decision. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. Good luck to the Commission!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u141	Thank you, Professor Angelov. In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will not take back what I said that you will learn someday. That is why you are here. But at the moment what is happening in Parliament, especially those who know how the watermelon bark put you under, and you slipped, and how they are smiling at the moment, you will find out from the following. [[Laughter]] The first thing that is, you've made the biggest populism, you're going to go bankrupt all those private companies that carry electricity, you're going to go bankrupt! This means that you have no idea at the moment what you have done with the free electricity market in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u143	Mr. Atalay, is this in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u144	Yeah. The second thing that is in the way of conduct, Mr President, is that this decision that you have adopted is against the law. Because in art. 84, para. 2, Mr. Chairman, read to see that any decision taken by the National Assembly is presented to the Members of the National Assembly in writing and I do not want to read to you further in art. 84 what's going on. So what you have done, colleagues, is not in the interests of voters, but in the interests of those who have slipped you today, but you will understand it further. It's not nice to listen to the advice of those people who want to mislead you. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u145	Thank you. We are now going to nominations for members of the set up temporary committee on a money-based principle. Two from each parliamentary group. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group We continue the Change, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u146	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change.We propose Mr. Radoslav Stefanov Ribarski as chairman of the newly established Temporary Commission and Mr. Venko Nikolov Sabrutev as member of the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u147	Thank you. On behalf of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Allow me just a few seconds to thank all Members of the National Assembly for supporting our, albeit editorially and separately voted, proposal for a draft decision on a moratorium on electricity, heat and VIC services prices. I believe that we have demonstrated concern for Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian businesses, which have been placed for months under extremely difficult conditions for survival. Thanks again! Our nominations for Commissioners are Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova and Mr. Zhecho Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u149	Thank you. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We offer Mr. Ramadan Atalay and Mr. Stanislav Anastasov from the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u151	Thank you. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria I propose Dragomir Stoynev and Professor Rumen Gechev as members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u153	Thank you. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I make our proposals, also once again to thank the GERB parliamentary group in Mrs. Atanasova's face for the proposal that we supported. On behalf of the "There is such a people" in the committee we offer the gentlemen Ivo Atanasov and Tihomir Tenev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ivaylo Mirchev and Mr. Vladislav Panev are proposed on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u157	Thank you. And on behalf of the parliamentary group of a party?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party, we propose Nikolay Drenchev and Iskra Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-15.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Let's move on to voting on the proposed nominations. Colleagues, please vote. Vote 214 MPs: 205 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Thank you, colleagues. We've run out of agendas for today. The next meeting will take place tomorrow We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
