ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Second vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act. Importers are Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs on 11 November 2020, adopted in the first vote on 2 December 2020, and I propose that it be point 3 for today. Vote 131 MPs: for 127, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: LEGISLATION FOR THE BULGARIAN LANGUAGE, No 002 01 48, DELIVERED BY THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF 7 OCTOBER 2020, ADOPTED ON FIRST VOICE ON 12 NOVEMBER 2020 Mr. Ademov, would you like to introduce us to the Second Reading Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal to invite the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Adriana Stoimenova to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u3	Please vote on Mr. Ademov's procedure. They voted 134 MPs: 132, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u4	Report on the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill No 002-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2020, adopted on the first vote on 12 November 2020. "The Bulgarian Sign Language" (Bulgarian Sign Language) (Bulgarian Sign Language) (Bulgarian Sign The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u5	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I vote: the text of the importer on the name of the Law; the text of the importer on the name of Chapter I; and the rejection of the division. Vote 138 MPs: for 137, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u6	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) This law governs the public relations related to the recognition of the Bulgarian sign language as a natural language and respect for the right of deaf and deaf persons of expression and information through the Bulgarian sign language. (2) The law creates conditions for removing restrictions in the communication of deaf and deaf persons and in the use and access to information through the Bulgarian gesture language.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 1 on the Commission report. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u8	Under art. 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vessela Lecheva, Violeta Zhelev, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Veska Nencheva, Polina Shishkova and Ivo Hristov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova, Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 2 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of art. 2. They voted 133 MPs: 132, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u10	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3 which becomes art. 2: Art. 2. The law guarantees the rights of deaf and deaf persons in a way that ensures independence, equality and accessibility in public life by using the Bulgarian sign language. (2) The specifics of the Bulgarian sign language and culture and the identity of the community of deaf persons in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be respected and preserved. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4 which becomes art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5 which becomes art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put it to the vote: the version of art. 3 which becomes art. 2; the text of the importer for art. Art. 4 and art. 5 which becomes art. Art. 3 and Art. 4. Vote 157 MPs: for 156, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u12	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6 which becomes art. 5. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name "Section III" should be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u13	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the rejection of the name 6 which becomes respectively art. 5; and the rejection of the name They voted 152 MPs: for 152, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u14	Under art. 7 has a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Zhelev, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Veska Nencheva, Polina Shishkova and Ivo Hristov. The proposal was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7 which becomes Art. 6. The second language of the Bulgarian sign and its use in education. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8 which becomes Art. 7. Art. 7. In kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development under art. 49, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law on pre-school and school education provides conditions for learning, learning and using the Bulgarian sign language. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9 which becomes Art. 8. Art. 8. (1) Specialized service units under art. 50, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on pre-school and school education, the centers for support for personal development under art. 49, para. 1, t. 4 and special schools under art. 44, para. 1, t. 1 of the same law provide information and consult the parents to provide a language environment for communication in Bulgarian gesture language and to teach the child from the moment of detection of hearing loss. (2) In carrying out the activities under para. 1 Institutions may interact with organisations of and for people with impaired hearing and blind deaf persons entered under the Law on non-profit legal entities as non-profit entities for carrying out public benefit activities. (3) The medical professional who has determined the auditory loss of the child shall inform the parent of the institutions under para. 1 in order to provide early support for the personal and linguistic development of the deaf or blind deaf child. (4) The regional managements of education shall provide information about the institutions under para. 1 of the relevant regional health inspections which publish it on their websites.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u15	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! It's too loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u16	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10, which becomes art. 9. Art. 9. (1) Specialized service units under art. 50, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on pre-school and school education, the centers for support for personal development under art. 49, para. 1, t. 4 and special schools under art. 44, para. 1, t. 1 of the same law organize and conduct trainings for the parents of deaf and deaf children in Bulgarian sign language to provide the language environment of the child. (2) For deaf and deaf children according to the extent of the distortion of sight and/or hearing, early impact and early support shall be provided through the Bulgarian sign language by the special schools under art. 44, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on pre-school and school education and of specialized service units under art. 50, para. 1, t. 5 of the same law. (3) In carrying out the activities under para. 1 Institutions may interact with organisations of and for people with impaired hearing and blind deaf persons entered under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities as non-profit entities for carrying out public benefit activities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 10: Art. 10. (1) For the purposes of training and communication in the special schools for students with sensory disabilities the Bulgarian sign language shall be used. (2) In the special schools for students with sensory disabilities, hearing impaired, and for deaf students studying in the preschool and school education system, training in Bulgarian gesture language is conducted as a special subject. (3) For deaf children and blind deaf children according to the extent of the distortion of sight and/or hearing in kindergartens, training for the study of the Bulgarian sign language in a special educational direction shall be conducted. (4) For students without hearing loss can be trained to acquire additional training in Bulgarian gesture language in the faculty classes, and for children without hearing loss a training for learning the Bulgarian gesture language in additional forms of pedagogical interaction. (5) The training on the special subject Bulgarian sign language and the direction under para. 3 is carried out by pedagogical specialists with higher education in specialties from the professional fields of Pedagogicals and Pedagogicals of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 213, para. 7 of the Preschool and School Education Act. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12, which becomes Art. 11: Art. 11. (1) In the system of preschool and school education according to the assessment of the individual needs of deaf and deaf children and students is provided additional support for personal development through the Bulgarian sign language by a resource teacher, and if possible by a profiled resource teacher, for full participation in the educational process. (2) The deaf and deaf child or student may be provided by kindergartens or schools and translator in Bulgarian sign language in case the relevant specialist in para. 1. The use of the translation service is outside the provided limit under art. 20, para. 1. (3) In the current tests and examinations in the system of school education, as well as in the pedagogical situations in preschool education, deaf and blind deaf children and students under para. 1 according to the extent of the distortion of vision and/or their hearing are entitled to use the Bulgarian sign language. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14, which becomes art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15 which becomes Art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote: the text of the importer for art. 7 which becomes Art. 6; the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 2; the version of art. 8 which becomes Art. 7 of the Commission Report; the version of art. 9 which becomes Art. 8 of the Commission Report; the version of art. 10, which becomes art. 9 of the Commission Report; the version of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 10 of the Commission Report; the version of art. 12, which becomes Art. 11 on the Commission report; and respectively the text of the importer for Articles 13, 14 and 15 which become Articles 12, 13 and 14 respectively. Vote 156 MPs: for 156, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. Under art. 16 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 15: Art. 15. (1) A translator from and in Bulgarian sign language shall be a decomposing natural person with Bulgarian citizenship or with the right to permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria, who shall have professional qualification or qualification according to a part of the profession. 6, para. 1 of the Law on Vocational Education and Training or has acquired an educational and qualification degree of Master in the specialty of the Bulgarian gesture language. (2) Translation services from and in Bulgarian sign language according to the order of this chapter shall be carried out by persons under para. 1 included in the List of Translators in Bulgarian Sign Language. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17, which becomes art. 16. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 17: Art. 17. (1) Any person wishing to provide translation services from and in Bulgarian gesture language shall submit personally or through an authorised person to the Agency for Disabled Persons an application for entry in the list under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. The application shall be based on a model approved by the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. (2) The application shall be accompanied by a certificate of professional qualification acquired, respectively a certificate of qualification acquired under part of the profession. (3) The circumstances of art. 15, para. 1, with the exception of the necessary education and qualification, shall be established by a declaration. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 18: Art. 18. (1) The documents submitted under art. 17 shall be examined by a committee designated by an order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, which shall carry out a documentary examination and shall make a reasoned proposal for entry in the list referred to in Article 1. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 or for refusal of entry. (2) Within 14 days of the date of submission of the application under art. 17, para. 1 The Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities on the basis of the proposal under para. 1 issue an order to be entered on the list referred to in Article 1. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 or for refusal of entry. (3) The Commission shall examine the application under art. 17, para. 1 within three days of its entry. Where irregularities are detected, the applicant shall be informed to remove it within 5 days of the notification thereof, indicating that the suspension will result in termination of production. (4) In the cases under para. 3 The time limit for a decision shall start from the date of the suspension of the irregularity. (5) If the irregularities in the submitted documents are not removed within the period under para. 3, the proceedings shall be terminated. (6) At the discretion of the Committee under para. 1 verification of the authenticity of the documents submitted and the circumstances declared may be carried out. (7) The Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities shall issue an order for refusal of entry in the list referred to in Article 1. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 where the requirements of art. 1 are not met 15, para. 1. (8) The orders under para. 2, 5 and 7 shall be communicated under the terms and conditions of the Administrative Procedure Code. (9) The orders under para. 2, 5 and 7 are subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) The entry in the list under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 shall be carried out within three days of the entry into force of the order for entry under para. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20, which becomes art. 19: Art. 19. (1) Changes in the circumstances of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 3 - 7 may be carried out on application by the translator following the order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. (2) Person included in the list of translators in Bulgarian sign language shall be deleted: 1. at the request of the translator; 2. in the case of placing under the seal of the translator; 3. in the event of the detection of systemic infringements in the reporting of translation services; 4. at the death of the translator. (3) The deletion shall be carried out after the order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The order is subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21, which becomes Art. 20. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22, which becomes Art. 21: Art. 21. (1) The grant translation service under art. 20, para. 1 shall be provided for each fiscal year following the order of the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate, issued at the request of the deaf or blind deaf person, and if it is not capable of being issued to his legal representative. (2) The request under para. 1 may also be submitted by a family member in which it is accommodated in accordance with art. 26 of the Law on Child Protection, the deaf or blind deaf child. (3) The grant translation service under art. 20, para. 2 shall be provided for each school year following the order of the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate, issued at the request of the deaf or blind deaf person. (4) The provision of the translation service under art. 20, para. 1 and 2 shall be provided on the basis of an application form declaration approved by the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance, accompanied by an expert decision of TelK or NELK and, where necessary, other medical documents, as well as documents certifying the status of the student or doctoral student. (5) The documents under para. 4 shall be submitted to the Directorate of Social Assistance (SCI) at the current address of the person under art. 20, para. 1 and 2. The documents may be submitted in person or by an authorised person, by letter of delivery via a licensed postal operator or by electronic means with a qualified electronic signature. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23, which becomes art. 22: Art. 22. (1) The Director of the Directorate of Social Assistance shall issue an order for the provision or refusal of the provision of the translation service under art. 20, para. 1 and 2. An integral part of the insurance order is the model of a protocol for the use of a free translation service in Bulgarian sign language, approved by the Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency. (2) The order under para. 1 shall be communicated in writing to the applicant person within 7 days of its issue. (3) Refusal to provide the translation service under art. 20, para. 1 and 2 are motivated. (4) The order under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The order to provide a grant service in Bulgarian sign language under para. 1 shall be issued for a period until the end of the financial year, respectively until the end of the school year in which it was applied, or for the period specified in the expert decision to determine the percentage of permanently reduced performance or the type and extent of disability, where that period expires before the end of the financial year, respectively before the end of the school year. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24, which becomes Art. 23: Art. 23. Deaf and deaf persons for whom a translation service is provided under art. 21 and 22, exercise their right to receive a grant service in Bulgarian sign language through their selected translators from the list under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25, which becomes art. 24: Art. 24. The state institutions and authorities of the local self-government are obliged to provide translation in Bulgarian sign language outside the provided limit under art. 20, para. 1 and 2 at: 1. a statement and/or receipt of administrative services by the authorities of the executive and local self-government; 2. the conduct of events organised by them with the participation of persons with impaired hearing and blind deaf persons when the persons have requested it in advance. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26, which becomes Art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The terms and procedures for granting, refusing, reporting, paying and controlling a grant service in Bulgarian sign language under art. 20, para. 1 and 2 are determined by a regulation of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. (2) The maximum amount of funds for payment of an hour's grant service in Bulgarian sign language provided to a person under art. 20, para. 1, 2 and 4 is decided by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. (3) The terms and procedure for providing a grant service under art. 20, para. 4 t. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 81, para. 3 of the Health Act, under art. 20, para. 4 t. 2 with a regulation of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote: the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Three; the version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 15 on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for art. 17, which becomes art. Article 16; version of Art. 18, which becomes Art. 17 of the Commission Report; the version of art. 19 and 20, respectively, which become Articles 18 and 19 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for art. 21, which becomes Art. Article 20; the version of Article 20 22, which becomes Art. 21 of the Commission Report; the version of Articles 23, 24 and 25, which shall become Articles 23, 24 and 25 respectively. Art. 22, Art. Art. 23, Art. 24 according to the Commission Report; the version of art. 26, which becomes Art. 25 on the Commission report. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u20	Chapter four: Council for the Bulgarian Sign Language. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. A proposal from the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The Council for the Bulgarian Sign Language is established to the Minister of Education and Science. (2) The Council under para. 1 is an advisory body that assists the Minister of Education and Science in the implementation of the activities related to the development of the Bulgarian sign language. (3) The Council shall consist of 13 members and shall include: 1. one representative of the Ministry of Education and Science and one representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; 2. two habilitated lecturers from the academic community.. linguist and special educator; 3. one representative of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; 4. seven representatives of the deaf and deaf community; 5. One translator in Bulgarian sign language. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28, which becomes art. 27: Art. 27. The order for determining the members of the Board, the activity and the organisation of the Board shall be laid down by rules issued by the Minister of Education and Science. "Chapter 5" "Searching." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29, which becomes art. 28: Art. 28. (1) The funding of the activities related to the use and development of the Bulgarian sign language shall be carried out by means provided by: 1. the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, from the budget of the institutions under art. 20, para. 4 t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 24 and at the expense of medical establishments under art. 20, para. 4 t. 1; 2. the budget of the state and municipal kindergartens and schools, the centers for support for personal development under art. 49, para. 1, t. 4 and specialized service units under art. 50, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on pre-school and school education; 3. European and international projects and programmes; 4. other sources. (2) Within the limits of the funds referred to in art. 287 of the Law on pre-school and school education funds from the state budget can be provided to private kindergartens and private schools included in the system of state funding under art. 10 of the Preschool and School Education Act. "Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. The deaf person is a person or child with hearing loss, which is a natural medium and/or user of the Bulgarian sign language. 2. The blinder person is a person or child who is both auditory and visual loss and is a user of the Bulgarian sign language or other communication systems according to the specifics of his violation. 3. "Bulgarian gesture language" is a natural gesture system for language communication. 4. The translation service is performed through the Bulgarian gesture language and for blind and deaf people also through other communication systems. 5. The language environment is an environment in which communication is carried out through Bulgarian gesture language. 6. "Profiled Resource Teacher" is a resource teacher who has a specialization under the Rumour and Rehabilitation Rehabilitation. 7. The parent is the person exercising parental rights within the meaning of the Family Code, as well as the representative of the child or the person taking care of the child. 8. In this respect, the Court of Justice has held that, in the context of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that, in the present case, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union does not have the power to exercise its powers in the interests of the Court of Justice of the European Union (the Court of "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In the Administrative Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 14, para. 5 the word "telkovnik" is replaced by "transducer" in Bulgarian gesture language. " The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In the Civil Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in the title, the word "Talkniks" shall be replaced by the translation into Bulgarian gestures. (b) in para. 3 the word "Talknik" is replaced by a Bulgarian gesture translator. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 583, para. 2 the word "talkovnik" is replaced by "transducer" in Bulgarian gesture language. The word "talkovnik" is replaced by "transducer" in Bulgarian gesture language. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in the title and in the text before. 1 the word "Talkovniks" is replaced by "transducers" in Bulgarian gesture language. (b) c. 3 the word "the speaker" is replaced by "the translator" in Bulgarian gesture language. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in the title, the word "Talkniks" shall be replaced by the translation into Bulgarian gestures. (b) in para. 1 the word "Talkovniks" is replaced by "transmitters" in Bulgarian gesture language. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Vezdi Rashidov, Asya Peeva, Nikolay Sirakov, Maria Tsvetkova, Christian Mitev and Anastas Popdimitrov: "Paragraph 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to Detain." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... (1) The persons wielding the Bulgarian sign language, which is certified by a document issued before the entry into force of this law by the National Representative Organization of the Deaf in Bulgaria, up to one year after the entry into force of this law shall enjoy the rights of the persons under art. 15, para. 1 if they are entered on the list referred to in Article 1. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. (2) Person under para. 1, which wishes to provide translation services from and in Bulgarian sign language, presents the document proving the knowledge of Bulgarian sign language to the application under art. 17, para. 1. (3) The persons under para. 1 entered on the list under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 shall be required within one year of the entry to pass a successful examination for the recognition of a degree of professional qualification in the profession or part of the profession............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 40, para. 7 of the Law on Vocational Education and Training, certifying the recognition of professional qualifications or qualifications under part of the profession. (4) In case the person under para. 1 did not meet the requirement under para. It shall be written off from the list referred to in Article 3. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 after order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... By 31 December 2022, the heads of administrative structures in the executive system and the mayors of municipalities shall establish conditions for the administrative service of deaf and deaf persons. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law: 1. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall issue the ordinance under art. 25, para. 1. 2. The Council of Ministers shall adopt the decision referred to in Article 2. 25, para. 2. 3. The Minister of Interior shall issue the ordinance under art. 25, para. 3. 4. The Minister of Education and Science shall issue the rules of art. 27. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force three days after its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of art. 10, para. 2 - 5 which shall enter into force on 15 September 2026
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Statements? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable representatives of the deaf community, honourable translators from and in gesture language, honourable Members of the Parliament! I would like to thank all MPs who took part in the work on the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill and who voted for the Law. This unanimity has shown that there are causes that are much more important than the political differences that unite us and make us responsible for people's problems. On the eve of International Day of Deaf People, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov promised the deaf community that the Council of Ministers would propose to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language. Today it is a fact.. in today is a great victory, a celebration for the deaf community, a fulfillment of a dream and a hope for a better life! I would like to thank the representatives of and for the deaf community - more than 20 representatives of these organisations are present in plenary today. They were active participants in the process of drafting the Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language and I know that they are eagerly looking forward to the adoption of the final texts. And last but not least, let me also thank the translators from and in gesture language the people who have been by our side during these months, the bridge between the world of hearers and the world of the deaf. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? I can't see. I put to the vote: the name of Chapter Four; the version of art. 27, which becomes art. 26 according to the Commission Report; the version of art. 28, which becomes art. 27 on the Commission Report; the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Five; the version of art. 29, which becomes art. 28 on the Commission Report; the name of the subdivision; the version of § 1 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision; the version of § 2 of the Commission Report; the version of § 3 of the Commission Report; the wording of the importer for paragraphs 4 and 5; the rejection of § 6; the version of § 7 which becomes § 6 of the Commission Report; the version of paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 which become paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of the Commission Report. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. With this, the entire bill has been passed. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me, in turn, first of all, thank the importers and particularly colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Science, experts and advisors from the two committees on labour, social and demographic policy and on education and science. To thank colleagues from the deaf community, to thank translators as well. Dear colleagues, in the last two months you've been great! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Thank you to our guests. [[(National Representative Vessela Lecheva raises her hand. A line from the National Representative Dragomir Stoynev:]] Here you go. The law is over. [[Replications from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoinev.]] I'll refrain from commenting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable representatives of the deaf and deaf organizations that were part of this bill, we from the BSP for Bulgaria are surprised by this euphoria and this euphoria that the government of the Bill expressed. All of you could have had these legislative measures that concern your status and your quality of life, much earlier than three years earlier, because at the beginning of this term we had the desire to solve your problems. Unfortunately, we did not meet an understanding of the ruling majority, and all this you get three years later. Moreover, some of the measures are within the deadline to act from 2025. This could already be a fact and have a completely different way of life that you deserve. Unfortunately, however, as you can see, the government did not express their desire, did not support our project at the beginning of the mandate and had to wait three years. [[GERB's line]] But the fact is, this law has been passed. I'm sorry you had to wait so long. Thank you for your support of our efforts. [[Replications, single banging on the banks from GERB.]] I also thank our parliamentary group for not giving rise to any obstructions, but accepting all the proposals and together, united, we have made these measures to you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u27	We continue with a second item on our agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATION OF ECONOMIC ACTIONS RELATED TO OIL AND OIL PRODUCTS. It was introduced by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 18 December 2020. With the Report of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, Mr. Angelov will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Law on administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, No 054-01-120, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 18 December 2020. At its regular meeting on 14 January 2021, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on the Administrative Regulation of the Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 054-01-120, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 18 December 2020. The bill was presented by the MP Julian Angelov, who focused on the main reasons that led to the proposed changes. With the adoption of the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, the legislation introduced the term "domestic establishment" and the requirements for the registration of one. The practice shows that the conditions for registration restrict the possibility of legal persons dealing with transport within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and within the Community to register internal objects in their own or used territories. The existing provisions create conflicting administrative practice contrary to the Law on Construction in the Area, which makes it impossible to register internal sites of carriers, concessionaires of natural wealth, as well as construction sites related to important infrastructure projects for the country. The main reason is that the internal sites within the meaning of the Law on the Administrative Regulation of the Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products may not constitute movable objects within the meaning of art. 56 of the Law on Construction in the Area, as interpreted by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The proposal for a supplement aims to ensure that this inefficiable condition on the part of the interested parties is overcome. The proposed changes will lead to the facilitation of the registration regime for fuel supply sites of the described entities without creating the risk of an increase in the grey sector, as they remain within the scope of the Law. The representatives of industry organizations present at the meeting the Union of International Carriers, the Chamber of Motor Carriers, the National Association of Road Carriers, the Association of Bulgarian Traders, Producers, importers and fuel carriers and the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association expressed their support for the proposed changes. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Stefan Burgeev and Kristina Sidorova, who expressed support for the bill, which removes the difficulties to the stakeholders. Following the discussion and the vote held with 15 votes, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill supplementing the Law on the Administrative Regulation of the Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 054-01-120, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 18 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u29	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. With the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, Mr. Veselinov will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill supplementing the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 054-01-120, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 18 December 2020. At its regular meeting on 14 January 2021, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on the Administrative Regulation of the Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 054-01-120, submitted by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 18 December 2020. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Julian Angelov, who explained briefly the reasons that caused the proposed change and the objectives that are set with it. With the adoption of the Law on administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, the legislation introduced the term "domestic establishment" and the requirements for the registration of one. The practice shows that the conditions for registration restrict the possibility of legal persons dealing with transport within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and within the Community to register internal objects in their own or used territories. The existing provisions create conflicting administrative practice contrary to the Law on the Construction of the Area, which makes it impossible to register internal sites of carriers, concessionaires of natural wealth, as well as construction sites related to important infrastructure projects for the country. The main motive is that the internal objects within the meaning of the current law cannot represent movable objects within the meaning of art. 56 of the Law on Construction in the Area, as interpreted by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The proposal for a supplement aims to address this inability and the ineffable condition of the interested parties to be overcome. The proposed changes will lead to the facilitation of the registration regime for fuel supply sites of the described entities without creating the risk of an increase in the grey sector, as they remain within the scope of the Law. Mr. Angelov pointed out that in the leading parliamentary committee there were opinions in support of the Law by the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and affected by the problem branch organizations. In the discussion took the popular representative Manol Genov, who said he would not support the bill because there is no opinion from the Ministry of Finance on the effect of the proposed changes on revenues for the state. After the discussion and the vote held with 11 votes..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Importers? Mr. Angelov, you have the floor for an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the peoples! The proposed changes that I and a group of MPs made in the Law on administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products concern more than 1000 Bulgarian companies, mainly transport companies, carriers who, by the Law adopted by the National Assembly, have not been able to register their domestic sites, namely sites to load the relevant equipment, means of transport, and from 1 January this year these over 1000 Bulgarian companies cannot actually supply fuel and provide their means of transport. In view of this, the proposals we have made are precisely to give them the opportunity to continue working because this is a large industry in the Bulgarian economy. We remember the blows that were made by the European Union and the restrictions that they introduced for the Bulgarian carriers. We have therefore made these proposals to enable this part of the Bulgarian business to be able to work, not to be in the gray sector, to be able to import taxes, excise duties and everything else that is necessary for the Bulgarian fisk. The proposals we have made also concern the construction industry, concern the mining industry and various other sectors. The problem is that many of these sites are located in the territory of unregulated terrains and really with the requirement of the Law for registration of these internal sites there is no way to obtain registration because there is no way for the municipality to obtain documents for such an object which is not in regulated terrain. We all know that when building infrastructure, highways and repairs, construction sites along these roads and sites, as well as other infrastructure projects, are also faced with this problem, because the huge construction equipment cannot be sent to gas stations, but should be charged precisely to such a temporary site that they have made the respective contractors have an internal facility to charge this equipment with. The carriers also pointed out another argument relating to the problem. According to them, it is better to charge their vehicles before entering Bulgaria than to charge them at gas stations in Bulgaria and not at their internal sites. This would actually contribute less money to the Bulgarian budget. That is, the proposals we have made are precisely to enable over 1,000 Bulgarian companies from the transport, construction and mining sectors to be able to work and protect their interest, not to be stopped with different administrative obstacles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Gechev? [[Noise and lines.]] No, that was an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We will vote abstention for the following reasons: Firstly, you are proposing a change in the Law, which you claim will result in an increase in budget revenues one month before the elections. Secondly, it's very suspicious and I'm amazed! Since you claim there will be more revenue, which is doubtful, why has the Budget Committee been eliminated? What about you this law offer him to go through Youth and Sports?! How does this work? You claim that the main effect is on the budget. Where's the Budget Committee? Well, put it in another one. A month before the election?! [[Noise and lines.]] Plus, you say that when the trucks come from abroad and when they enter Bulgaria there is no place to charge?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u35	Who told you that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u36	But what do they say when Bulgaria is full of gas stations?! Do they have to go to an unregulated field to charge, so they charge in Serbia or Greece?! Dear colleagues, these numbers one month before the elections do not apply them!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there lines? I can't see. Is it a line, Mr. Angelov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u38	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u39	A statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my speech I will give additional information to people who clearly do not listen to what is being said, people who have in no way participated in the solution of the problem of these over 1,000 Bulgarian companies, but are made to be great experts, people who are breakers of the Bulgarian economy and talk about what is good and what is bad. No one has said in his statement that this is the main reason for the Bulgarian budget. We said that the main reason is to give these over 1000 Bulgarian companies the opportunity to work! And very strange how Mr. Gechev expressed BSP's position that he was against the bill, given that his colleagues in the Commission, of which I am chairman, supported the bill?! That's a very interesting fact. Perhaps Mr. Gechev represents a single BSP. Probably. I will give my opinions with a positive opinion from the Ministry of Transport, the Regional Ministry have the relevant remarks because it concerns the Law on Construction of the Territory, the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, the Bulgarian Chamber of Road Carriers in Bulgaria, the Association of Bulgarian Traders, Producers, importers and fuel carriers in Bulgaria. All these branch organizations, all these institutions support the submitted bill because it will solve a huge problem and will enable over 1000 Bulgarian companies to work. That's hundreds of thousands of people working in this industry, and they're connected to it. And again we see that the BSP will be against whether or not they are abstaining or something else. This isn't about some lobbying or some political decision that a month before the election... Mr. Gechev, if you had read, you would have understood that this law and registration for these internal objects entered from January 1st and in fact these problems arose in the territory of municipalities where architects refused to coordinate these objects. Because before that, all these legal entities were told that there would be no problem of being able to register these sites. But eventually they ran into the municipal administration in places where they refused coordination and could not register their sites. That's why we reacted to solve this problem. Because the registration really started on January 1st this year. But you don't know that. All you know is how to criticize, spit, and decide that someone is doing it for something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Gechev, you have a line. Mr. Atanasov, you're also the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u42	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will not comment on the attempts for some assessments, as there are institutions that give assessments. But that's your right. However, the following questions arise: you claim that this is a huge problem. Didn't you see this problem in the Law? What have you been doing here for five years? Why did you adopt a law that created a big problem, in your opinion, and a month before the elections you saw that there was a problem?! Well, when you met these organizations, when you wrote the Law, didn't they tell you there was a problem? Or did they wake up this morning at 5:30? Who are you kidding?! What have you done with this law so far? Huh? [[(Noise and lines from the National Representative Julian Angelov: Five years. Five years!]] The municipalities then registered. Well, who runs the community? I thought you were bragging that you were running the whole of Bulgaria. So you're ruling that a month before the election, there was a big problem?! It's a big problem, but it's not for you to solve, it's for others in a month. [[(Noise, laughter, comments from GERB and OP:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u43	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Optimistic. Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleague Angelov, I will not enter into emotional disputes, but I will ask you a logical question, which you have not addressed in your exposé, and it is extremely important. Mr. Angelov, explain to the MPs that under the old regulations the agricultural chain equipment should be charged by the large gas stations. You know, I'm going to translate it to the people who, without prejudice to, of course, the women's community, but the chain machinery, that's equivalent, Mr. Angelov, to a tank! First of all, it's forbidden for a chain technique to travel on asphalt roads because it destroys them. And second of all, to charge one of these high-powered gas stations, you know what it's gonna do on the roads until it gets to that big gas station?! That's why you didn't hurt him, and that's what... [[Noise and lines by MP Milko Nedyalkov.]] If you want to take the line, you can't take the line, but make a statement. And third, Mr. Angelov, a very interesting question. One month before the election! Well, Mr. Angelov, I want you to answer this question: this Parliament has a life of at least a month.............................................................................. That's my next question. A month of coworkers' logic, we don't have to do anything, just sit here, watch each other smartly, and in a month's time, go to an election campaign. I would also like you to discuss this matter. And the third question I want you to answer, Mr. Angelov, listen carefully. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yeah, just for ten seconds. Who decides the elections in Bulgaria? Who decides? Statements by a fellow MP from this tribune or the people when they went to vote because we just heard that statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u45	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there a third line? Please, Mr. Bonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Angelov, because it is a line, I turn to you: I did not support it in the Regional Commission, so it is not the part of the BSP, the BSP did not support it, I personally did not. What you are doing, Mr. Angelov, in a straight text to tell you, is returning the office gas stations and the principle of registration. Just a year ago or maybe two years ago, we passed a law again introduced by the majority by Mr. Emil Dimitrov, with whom that is what we have limited. Only a year and a half ago! Write objects first, second, third category, well that they objects first, second and third category under the Law on Territorial Device are an awful lot. They and the towers in Sofia, for example, are the first category of gas stations to be allowed there? That's what we're trying to tell you is not the place to register these objects. Once the objects are first, second and third category, there is a line under the Law on Device in the territory, which precisely and clearly regulates. We agree that yes, for the construction industry, yes, the transport industry must be looking for another way. But, understand, high-grade facilities subject to licensing to the Ministry of Economy, in the case of State Technical Control, these are pressure equipment. There must be order. You can't do that. So you're wrong that we all supported him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u47	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. A hole, Mr. Angelov? You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u48	To replicating gentlemen, I can tell you the following: and so far these sites have worked on the basis of Bulgarian legislation. It's not just anyone opening up, getting a gas station somewhere, internal objects and so on. They have worked until now on the Bulgarian legislation. But there is a problem, again, with the registration at the Ministry of Economy. That's the problem we want to solve. When this law was adopted at the second reading, I remember very well, all the companies in the different industries that concern them were there, did not express any reservations because they had received assurance that there would be no problem. But the problem came from municipalities, which are managed by all political forces, in different places in Bulgaria, Mr. Gechev. If you claim that in all of Bulgaria all municipalities are governed by the "United Patriarchs" because you are looking at us, this is a complete lie, we have several municipal mayors. So no one wants to do anything illegal, anything illegal. These sites have worked so far, these sites have still been paying taxes, excise taxes and everything else. This law was adopted precisely to combat the grey economy and I think it has achieved good results. But where there is some problem, we are obliged as MPs when we are called, and from this sector, which is not small in Bulgaria, to solve the problem, to give the Bulgarian companies the opportunity to work, especially in this difficult situation related to pandemic, with the measures imposed by the European Union. I do not understand why BSP does not want to support the Bulgarian business and solve the problems? In one committee, why does BSP support and not support this law in parliament? That's weird. I have no idea how you decide it is your business, you are another party. In one committee, BSP supports and in parliament does not want to support. Why? Because that's what they decided to do in spite of it. Because Mr. Gechev thinks that the term of office of parliament is five years and not four examples. You were just talking about the last five years in my line. They are four years old, Mr. Gechev, there are not five and this law was not passed five years or four years ago, but was adopted one and a half years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u49	Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u50	One and a half, for example. I remember very well when it was adopted, because at second reading I was the chairman of this committee and I have presented it, so I know very well when it was adopted. So when you speak out of the stands, not to go out and make political statements and slanders, any conclusions of yours, any views of yours, but come out and say: we are against [[the President signals that time has run out]] because we do not want to support the Bulgarian industry in the field of transport, carriers, builders and mining industry. Tell me, that's why we're against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u51	Thank you. Finish, please. Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Svilensky, then Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll tell you why we're against it. You must be solving problems, maybe some branch, some part of the industry has problems that need to be solved, and you created these problems. So in the first two years of government, you create problems, and in the second two years you try to solve them. And so passed the entire term of office of this government. How many laws have you changed 66 times, causing problems, solving problems? Only between creating problems and solving problems are companies' fates, business fates, people's destinies, or do you not appreciate that? When did you know there was a problem? And now a question for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u53	Mr. Svilensky, please come to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u54	Yeah, I'm on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u55	You're too far away right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u56	I'm on the subject. Because, Mr. Chairman, it has been said that the construction machines have nowhere to charge. The Prime Minister didn't have a tractor, a roller and a backhoe that he didn't get on. Didn't he realize they had nowhere to load? Why are you bringing in this law and not the Council of Ministers? Aren't they the people who have to solve Bulgaria's problems? Aren't they the people who have to bring the laws into this parliament? Doesn't the Prime Minister know that the diggers and tractors have nowhere to load?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u57	Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u58	Or does he just take pictures with them?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u59	...one more time, please, get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u60	Mr. Chairman, please don't interrupt me. I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u61	The Prime Minister has no place here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u62	It is clear that there is no place here that all Bulgarian citizens understand that the Prime Minister has no place.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u63	You didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u64	He has no place in the Council of Ministers. The question is, however, the Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u65	Mr. Svilensky, I'm sorry, but I can't listen to what you're saying anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u66	Mr. Chairman, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u67	You're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u68	I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u69	And I'm not getting into an argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u70	I'm talking to the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u71	Either get on the subject or I'll cut you off.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u72	...and please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u73	I'll cut you off.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u74	No, you can't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u75	I'm the one making the call.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u76	...because I didn't offend anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u77	No, you're not on the subject, and I have a duty to make reference.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u78	How can I not be on the subject? What's the subject? What's the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u79	I have rules, and I follow them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u80	What's the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u81	Proceed, proceed with the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u82	But, Mr. Chairman, you interrupt me ten times, and what's the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u83	Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u84	The fuel.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u85	The theme is the Law on Fuels, Mrs Daritkova. The theme is why the prime minister will not say that the industry has nowhere to load and use the United Patriarchs to implement these laws. [[shouting: "E-e-e-e!"]] That's the theme because you're afraid to get your premiere out, which from Wednesday to Saturday is filming with these diggers, and today he won't say they're having problems. He keeps asking them, "What's up, do you guys work, what's up? I have provided everything for you! " - Well, let's face it. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u86	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I had already prepared to read to you. 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u87	Save it for the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u88	No, you read it, please. - What's the line? Here's your cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u89	Mr. Svilenski, regularly in your speech you want to take away the rights of MPs who have the right to speak, who has the right to submit a bill. I, as MP, have the right to introduce any bill which I think is useful and right for the Bulgarian state, for the Bulgarian business, for the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. You want that right to take from me. Moreover, I am the chairman of this committee, which is leading by this law. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] The people in the industry who are affected have sought meetings with me from all these organizations, associations and associations, precisely to seek a way to solve their problem. That's why I've committed myself and I've done it because they've sought a meeting with me, through the Commission that this law has passed. And it's perfectly normal when there's a problem or something to solve, and, by the way, this law, unlike other laws that are imported, there's only one amendment that's going to be made on it and not every few months of repairs, as has happened. And this is again in favor of the Bulgarian business. As you said earlier about construction equipment, rollers, tractors, I want there to be a chance tomorrow if God forbid Cornelia and Karadayi happen to rule together and they can drive the roller, but it's loaded so they don't have to push. That's why I want to do it. [[Laughter and applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u90	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u91	Mr. Svilenski, I have not been able to understand when we stand in the room... whether it is ruling or opposition, it is right to know our role, one is proposing, the other is opposition, but let them be constructive. I didn't understand from your statement "Yes, you solve a problem, but we will not support it" and so you do four years, in spite of, of stubbornly solving a problem, but we will not support it. Even in this room, which you obviously think is going away if we decide to go back to art. 1 and to say that the BSP will rule until the end of the world, you will probably still not support it by stubbornness, not by anything else. I do not understand all this constructive unprincipledness that makes BSP, and I am sure that Bulgarian citizens will also appreciate it on 4 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u92	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. Here's a third line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilenski, I cannot agree with what you said this bill should not be tabled by MPs, but by the Council of Ministers. There's no way we're gonna see the MPs as some kind of voting machine. By your logic, all bills, since they solve one or another public problem, governing one or other public relations, must be tabled by the Council of Ministers and here 240 MPs should only automatically vote them, without taking into account the constitutional norm that explicitly replaces the MPs' power to submit bills, their right to legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u94	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Svilensky, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u95	Article 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u96	Rule 57 I should have interrupted you from the beginning. No, you're not wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear gentlemen Angelov, Mitev, Siddy, I will answer you in general, as your lines were in the same direction. I didn't say you had no right to submit bills, nor do I deny you the right. Every Member of the National Assembly has the right to import and this is his job to introduce bills and solve problems for the Bulgarian citizens. The problem I put is: why is the Council of Ministers gone? Why don't they take part? Where's their initiative? It is clear that, when they do not work, you will work, and we, and all MPs. When there is no state and there is no Council of Ministers and there is no one to solve people's problems, it is the opposition, to you, to GERB, to which you must submit laws. And now the other problem. You are the chairman of this committee, Mr. Angelov, and the Commission is for combating the grey economy. You reported this law to the court. You yourself said you became President of the Commission, and you reported it. The problem is now why are you, once you have established that there is a problem in the Law in your opinion, because I am not sure now is there a problem, isn't there, just then so convincingly convincing us how to support the Law, right? Now with the same arguments you say this was a mistake, and that was true. Well, what's true? The truth, Mr. Angelov, is that you are only being used for the bearers of these bills and behind these carriers it is important to say what stands behind them and who stands behind them. That's it! That's what you tell the Bulgarian citizens. Otherwise, whether the Law is good or not, perhaps the next National Assembly will either improve it, or cancel it, or make it another "after seeing if what you are doing will fill the fissure. And because you were talking about shipping companies, that they were charging in Serbia, they didn't charge because they didn't have gas stations, but because they were cheaper.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u98	It's not cheaper. That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u99	Petrov, come here the line, not there from a place to take off the mask, and... Make a note, it's without a mask, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u100	I'm just waiting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u101	So they don't charge in Serbia and Turkey because they have nowhere to charge, but because there are dozens of pennies cheaper gas and diesel and that's why they charge there. So this is not going to solve this problem for transport companies. Look at the diggers, the rollers, you'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u102	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Nedyalkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let us remember that today we are discussing changes tabled in a law that is qualified by one of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly in his speech as a lobbying law. [[Reply from the O.P.: "Who, who? "]] From the group that imports this law. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Based on this, we need to think about how many times this law has been changed by its introduction under the pressure of different layers in our society. The farmers, the replicators from a place, you might remember. We now have another group that has also protested before the chairman of the so important committee that it is difficult to carry out its work. According to the submitted bill it consists of builders first, second and third category; carriers of cargo and people licensed in Bulgaria; also licensed carriers for international transport. Here's the circle of people that wasn't even well outlined by the importer. You can't contradict it here. It is pointed out that the main reason to ease the procedure with them with this bill is that municipalities somewhere have not done their job. [[Heckling]] Yes, the municipalities had an obligation to introduce common planning plans to do their job. Here again I ask: who made it possible to extend the time limits of municipalities not to introduce their planning plans? Why didn't the state help municipalities to create and implement their common planning? This vicious circle of legislation must be crossed, and therefore it is a serious motive at least at the beginning that this law should not be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u104	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I close the debates and put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, No 054-01-120, submitted by the National Representative Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. Vote 108 MPs: 74 against 18 abstentions 16. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. Importer is the People's Representative Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The bill was adopted in the first vote on 2 December 2020. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor to present the bill to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the beginning, if I may, on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Zhecho Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u106	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Stankov to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u107	On 11 November 2020, a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 054-01-103, submitted by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs on 11 November 2020, adopted on the first vote on 2 December 2020. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. " The Commission shall support the text of the importer. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay: A new § 1 is being created. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 2 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the word "Species" is replaced by the word "normal" and after the word "Species" the words "Species" as well as the measures to cover them are replaced by "Species" by a proposal from the Commission for energy and water regulation. 2. A new t. is created. 4a containing the following content: 4a. on the basis of the established level of reliability under art. 4, para. 2, p. 4 and, on a proposal from the transmission network operator, confirm the amount of capacity required prior to the auction in accordance with Section IXA of Chapter 9. 3. Previously on "T." 4a becomes t. 4b. 4. Point 5 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay: A new § 2 is being created. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. After the words "electric energy" the words "under art. 4, para. 2, p. 5 in the interest of the security of the supply of electricity and electricity shall be deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "balances" the words "from the 10-year plan for the development of the transmission network" shall be added; 3. The text of t. 2 is replaced by the auction procedures referred to in Section IXA of Chapter 9. 4. Point 3 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay: A new § 3 is being created. .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 3 the words "public supplier" shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay: A new §4 is being created: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 6 is repealed; 2. A new t. is created. 8c with the following content: 8c. determine annually by 30 June compensation for electricity purchased by final suppliers to cover the consumption of domestic final customers for electricity-connected entities at low voltage level; 3. Previously on "T." 8c becomes t. Eight years. 4. A new t. is created. 8e with the following content: 8e. for pricing purposes, determine annually, within 30 June, the estimated market price for electricity purchased by final suppliers to cover the consumption of domestic final customers for electricity distribution-connected entities at low voltage level; 5. New t. is being created. 12a, t. 12b and so on. 12c with the following content: It's 12 o'clock. propose to the Minister of Energy for validation in accordance with art. 4, para. 2, p. 4 mandatory standard for the reliability of electricity supply; 12b. on a proposal from the transmission network operator, approves a methodology for setting the conditions for a capacity tender procedure under Section IXA of Chapter Nine; 12c. on a proposal from the transmission network operator, approves and controls the implementation of capacity auctions rules; 6. Point 21 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8a the words "cold reserves" on the basis of a tender procedure shall be replaced by "further services" under art. 105, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8b the words s1 MW and more than 1 MWs shall be replaced by s500 kW and more than 500 kW. 3. A t is created. 17a: 17a. approve interest expenses under art. 36b, para. 1, t. 3; (d) 4. They're creating a t. 28a and 28b: It's 28a. cooperate with the competent authorities of a third country after consulting the competent regulatory authorities of other Member States concerned to ensure compliance with the Bulgarian legislation regarding gas infrastructure to and from a third country within the territory of the Member States where the first interconnection point with the network of the Member States is located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 28b. may consult and cooperate with the relevant competent authorities of third countries in relation to the operation of gas infrastructure to and from third countries in order to ensure the implementation of the Bulgarian legislation with regard to the relevant infrastructure in the territory and in the territorial waters of the Republic of Bulgaria;
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u108	Thank you, let's stop here. Statements? Mr. Atalay, you have the floor. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, away from the microphones. Replies from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] Excuse me, Mr. Ermenkov, I am in charge of the hearing with the interpretation that you have the right to speak for each paragraph once, and we consider the name of the Law and § 1. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u109	You're gonna make a mistake like this, but whatever. [[Heckling]] We'll have to work in four hours then. Dear colleagues, thank you. Colleagues, we are looking at a very serious bill. The amendments and additions to this bill, especially the amendments proposed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, are a very serious reform in energy. Colleagues, in the Commission all the proposals were rejected and all the political formations of GERB, BSP and nationalists voted abstention. They didn't have the valor to vote against it to indicate why they didn't want to adopt the energy reform. All the proposals, colleagues, were at the table of all the experts from every political formation since 2003. All the proposals that have been tabled have been sitting at the desks and ministers since then, including before GERB's energies in recent years. Basically, what is the reform? Putting the rail sector in the right direction; stabilizing energy financially; creating security and stability of the sector; and even more importantly, which is equal to all energy producers. All proposals, fellow Members, are related to Directive...... since 2003..................... since June 26, where this directive says that all energy production must be offered for free trade on the wholesale market. So, the first major proposals in this bill are: all the producers, without exception, are equal and go out to trade on the free market, you understand that what they produce, they offer it on the energy market. There has been another directive since 2009. This is Directive 2009/72 on common rules for the internal market in electricity which lays down the general rules for the production, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity with a view to improving and integrating the electricity markets in the Community. Both in unison and in support of another Directive.. with the introduction of the Clean Energy Package for all the electricity in 2019, it is clearly necessary that the electricity markets operate according to the basic market principles, with electricity prices being determined on the basis of demand and supply. This is the main direction in which we propose this reform, fellow Members. The question arises from all the opinions that we have listened to in the Commission and which I have read, all the political formations agree with energy reforms, they have all unanimously found that these proposals are indeed the cardinal reform on which energy will be stable and secure, but their main question is: why now? And now I'm trying to tell you why now. Now, colleagues, because with the next proposal I have, art. 93 to drop out, we propose that the National Electricity Company no longer performs its function as a public supplier. It is now, colleagues, because in this Energy Act we currently have a text that says that from 1 July 2020 to 1 July 2021, we must have full market liberalisation. It's the month of January. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If we do not make full liberalisation, this means that we are entering the electoral period, this means that the Law that we have before us, including the directives that have been presented so far by the European Union, is not being implemented. Colleagues, I will comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The first five minutes of my speech are over. I will let you see how the first paragraphs will be voted so that I can still take a stand on this subject and then I will decide how and how we act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u110	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, first I want to give you an opportunity to further develop your thesis, because I know you don't want to interfere with the adoption of this law because you're for it. Leaving these rather long texts would make it difficult to accept. I really firmly say that these texts are the way in which both the government and the European Commission have approved Bulgaria to make its wholesale liberalisation. And without wholesale liberalisation, surely the European Commission has guaranteed that capacity auctions will not exist. We have already adopted texts in which we say that, as of 1 July this year, the wholesale liberalisation must be over. But in any case, of course, this is not the way between first and second readings, without public discussion to enter these texts. It's on the one hand. On the second hand, you know that the long-term contracts are, in particular, a delicate problem for the government to solve. We've got a consultant, we've got a negotiating group scheduled, so it needs to end. Without the solution, and I hope that the well-meaning solution on both sides of this problem cannot go into liberalisation and especially the cancellation of art. 93a. This is exactly where............................................................................................... 93a, the relationship between the Power System Security Fund is formed, which pays off the energy produced by the National Power Company of the Unit and the Troika, and the National Electricity Company is fulfilling its obligations under the absolutely legitimately concluded contracts with the AES Maritsa East 1 That is the key to full liberalisation. Otherwise, as a direction, like texts, are in the right direction. Of course, there is much to be desired to make up these texts. They can come up with one public discussion. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Of course, that's not gonna happen until the election. I hope that after the elections there will be a government that will be able to solve this problem, and we leave him with this legacy that they will be able to do in the Energy Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u112	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atalay, the text of the proposals you are making are proposals that are extremely important for the way energy will develop in Bulgaria in the coming years. However, it is important that we ask ourselves a few questions. You have touched on one of the main ones why now? Each of us has a different thesis about why now? There are a few things in your proposals that make the impression that they are missing. One of them is the detailed analysis of what will be the effect if these proposals are adopted now, at this time. The colleague, like you, has asked a topic and you have taken up the theme of NEK and that the proposals you are making generally determine that NEK will no longer receive funds from the Energy Security Fund. What, though, can this really lead to if these proposals are adopted now? One of the things it can lead to, which I think is extremely important, is that it does not have to be made impossible to pay off the thermal power plants. What, though, will this lead to? This will lead them not to pay with the mines in their own way. This, I think, is clear to everyone what will lead to the region and what will be the effect on colleagues, on the people who are there. Another thing that impresses the pricing methods are not specific and clear. This, in turn, can lead to a change in the financial flows to the various companies, which could lead to a disparity, but a collapse in the system. I think it's a good offer, but, yes, it's not the place or the time. In my opinion, we need to do a much more serious and thorough analysis and debate that will lead to a smooth transition to these proposals of yours and to the directives that require us to do so. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u114	Thank you. I don't see a third line. A hole, Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u115	I, my colleagues, couldn't understand why you were clapping? That's why, because what I've suggested, you don't accept it, but you say that's exactly how it should be. Why now, colleagues? I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. Because if we don't release the National Electricity Company as an intermediary as some kind of mailbox that collects the money on one side and pays those funds that pay them to TPP 1 and TPP 3, you're wondering if you need to do a full analysis of everything that's happened because this analysis has been done since 2003 so far, you're going to end up bankrupting TPP 2. Every year 700 million are paid to TPP 1 and TPP 2 in relation to the obligations that the state has towards them. Last year for TPP 2 you know that in this room we voted 624 million, including those 100 other, on average 150 million, which were diverted through BEH, which also went 700 million to TPP 2. And what you're saying is that the mines are going to fail, TPP 2, if you don't accept this bill now, you're going to fail TPP 2. We are people and with these proposals we offer you to save TPP 2 because with the introduction of the Capacity Mechanism, entering this enchanted circle, the European Commission does not give us consent to introduce the Capacity Mechanism because we have not come to the wholesale market, we have not introduced the 2003 Directive. Therefore, for the excessive state aid that goes to TPP 1 and TPP 3 and the decapitalization of TPP 2 after 1 June 2021. You have no place to provide funds for the activities of TPP 2 and hence the coal plants. And one more thing, except that you do not have a legal option, except that it is a decapitalized TPP 2, except that it will stop coal plants, you do nothing about the absorption of euro funds, because as long as we give excessive State aid, you will not be able to absorb either from the Green Package or from the National Plan for the pandemic and for recovery. Therefore, colleagues, asking themselves the question, answering that there was no analysis, that there were certain details, because it was not clear how pricing is determined, on the contrary, it is precisely and clearly stated: the KEWR will determine the prices of final suppliers. Understand the electricity distributions, where electricity distributions are now becoming energy suppliers. And there, if there are any claims why for a whole year, why not for three months, these are your views. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Our vision was for a year. If you have a claim, you could come out here today and say: instead of one year, we offer for one month, for three months. But the direction, the equality, the wholesale market, the introduction of the Capacity Mechanism and the equivalence...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u116	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u117	One sentence. ...and giving American power plants the opportunity to sit at the negotiating table with the Ministry of Finance, would solve the energy issue, and you're running away from it. You came to power with the United Patriarchs, with the flag you walked that you would remove the contracts with the US power stations, and today you are hiding from the button of abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u118	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u119	Mr. President, I take note of the manner of conduct in relation to the fact that you have not given Mr. Ramadan Atalay the opportunity to speak on each of his unacceptable proposals prior to the text of the importer under § 1. Because you see that we had a title of the Law, then follow the proposals of Mr. Ramadan Atalay "three who were not accepted, and he has the right to defend each one of them, and only then followed the proposal of the importer plus the other amendments. So please keep that in mind. You have misinterpreted the Rules in my opinion. That was procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u120	Continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u121	Now we move on to a statement. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully agree with what Mr. Atalay and Mr. Nikolov and Mr. Tanev said just now, and when I saw the proposals Mr. Atalay made, at first I thought these were GERB proposals. To such an extent they correspond to GERB's energy policy, that I thought so. Then I looked and saw that it wasn't a mistake, really Mr. Atalay brought them in. I am pleased that colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group in the Energy Commission have not been misled by the temptation to support these proposals, although they must have had an internal desire to do so. However, I would like to say that I am actually taking a fundamental view of these three proposals that have been made here, and of all the others in the area of energy change, so that I do not get up to speak again. In principle, one objective, if it is correct, gentlemen, does not mean that the strategy for achieving it is also correct. Doesn't mean the tactics you're also doing are right. You can set the right goal and the way you're going is not the right one. It may come to the conclusion that in order to transport a commodity, you will need a horse and a wagon, but you have put the wagon in front of the horse and nothing will happen after all. This is, unfortunately, what is happening with Mr. Atalay's proposals because we cannot talk about cardinal changes in energy that are currently being proposed by him, without the Ministry of Energy having bothered to make an acceptable Strategy for Sustainable Energy Development. You can't change conceptual things in energy without knowing what your strategy is, or maybe afterwards we'll adjust the Strategy to legislation, which I think is not the right policy. Mr. Atalay is right that this reform should be done on political views having DPS, which actually coincide with those of GERB, but it seems to me that Mr. Atalay should have done them a little earlier. To urge colleagues from GERB together to make a proposal for a change of the Energy Act and then to have the opportunity between first and second readings what you say you have as comments on the specific, to be done. Because such changes without an impact assessment, but in the real type of impact assessment, when they are made as a Law Change Project, cannot be adopted, and cannot be discussed, and there is no way to achieve at least any public agreement on them without being able to make the relevant changes between them, and at second reading, new changes cannot be made on already submitted texts because there is no third reading. Mr. Atalay, I also share many of the things that you have written inside the Bill, but I tell you again that as long as there is no strategy in energy, until it is clear in what direction we are going, until it is clear how we will achieve decarbonisation, what the individual stages will be, what the priorities will be, what this will cost the state, any such step may be in the right direction, but can justify the saying that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. It is for this reason that we will not support your proposals and not because we are in an election environment, but because we believe that the normal governance approach in the field of such a strategic area as energy requires a strategic approach, as I have already said, a strategy with objectives, with steps consistent with the directives in line with Europe's new policies on decarbonisation, in line with the deadlines that are ahead of the social situation in the country. Because it is very easy to say: tomorrow everything comes out on the market, but who will pay and whether everyone will be able to pay it is unclear. It's pretty clear they won't be able to. How do we talk about full liberalisation, including those who will buy electricity It's in the details that the devil hides. Once again, your policy and your proposals are indeed in line with the policy of the government. Some of the things we also share as a parliamentary group, but in any case these proposals are late. Moreover, without entering into a political statement, because we in energy are trying not to take political statements, but at the end of this term, this Parliament, with the trust that it has, you know the one-digit number to which it answers, is hardly legitimate to accept revolutionary changes in energy. Let us leave this for another parliament, I hope with a more legitimate representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ermenkov, and I sincerely thank you for your support. You've noticed that this is the direction, this is the direction, this is the way the energy has to go. But lately I see you trying to transfer some very close line between other political formations with some attempt to rip your tail off the lizard, but it can't happen. The second thing I see you often on TV. With this comparison to the wagon and the donkey, you'll get a nickname for a cartman. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I want to tell you that there is also a definition for the energy vulnerable that you have voted in person in 2012. You know that if you come to power wherever you stand on this wagon, even if you are in front of the wagon, you are constantly trying to push it back. Don't pull it forward. Now all the political formations are standing in front of the wagon. You wish to draw along with the DPS forward this wagon, however, clearly that there are other influences and other influential things where the Prime Minister does not want to take an attitude where you all see that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is putting the right direction in energy, and you are convinced of this thing, but you are trying to seek justification for all the outrage you want to do. I wish you to come to power those Members who will vote against these proposals now. To come to power and then I will see how you will react when you will personally fail the TPP 2 [[the President signals that time has run out]] Because you're not giving her the opportunity to come out at the moment, so... Mr. Chairman, just one sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u124	We're waiting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u125	...to apply for the capacity mechanism to enable this undertaking, this mine to work in the transition period and to be able to extract those necessary means of reconstruction, innovation to green energy. That's it, guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u126	Thank you. Let's continue with the lines. I don't see any other line. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Atalay, the mask, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, being a cartman, if you're leading the cart in the right direction, it's not insulting. On the contrary, I would say that this is a responsibility that each of us must bear, whether we are carts, whether we are ministers or whether we are MPs. So here the question is in the direction and in the way it is managed. And since you are talking about the bankruptcy of the Bulgarian Socialist Party Maritza East 2 and our guilt, I would just like to remind you that this Parliament, on our proposal, has taken the necessary measures to prevent the bankruptcy of the TPP 2 and so that the appropriate funds can be transferred so that it can continue to function. It was this Parliament again on a proposal from the Bulgarian Socialist Party that proposed to the government and obliged it so to conduct negotiations with the European Union that the green deal would not affect the socio-economic situation in those regions where electricity is produced from coal. So don't blame us for being single and trying to bankrupt Bulgarian energy. On the contrary, we are doing everything possible within the framework of the law and our powers to save it. And once again I want to say what you have proposed in principle and which is absolutely in line with the Program of the Governments is something that was strange to me that you were not supported by GERB, but clearly they have made the right decision that between first and second reading cardinal changes, revolutions in energy cannot be made. There is no way we can start changing fundamental situations in energy policy without having made appropriate consultations prior to this on the specific texts that have been tabled without having an opinion of the relevant professional guilds, trade unions, stakeholders, without hearing what we are doing in this way without notifying, by the way, even the European Commission of what we intend to do in the field of energy. And that is the reason why we will not support you... that there were also texts that we will not support them on the philosophy of their proposals. The direction you propose for liberalisation is generally correct. Time is not true, the way is not true and there is no way to support it without, as we say, an assessment of the impact of specific texts on energy policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Ramadan Atalay to create a new paragraph, not supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 14 against 51, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Atalay's new proposal to create a new paragraph. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 116 MPs: 12, against 48, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr Atalay's new proposal for a new paragraph not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 9 against 68, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Atalay's latest proposal to create a new paragraph, this is the fourth one - the Commission does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. They voted 101 MPs: 13, against 45, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u129	Vote 110 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Continue with the report, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u130	Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay: A new § 5 is being created. .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1, t. 2 words with the public supplier or the public provider shall be deleted. 2. In para. 1, t. 3 the words of the public service provider shall be deleted. 3. Alinea 2 is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay: A new § 6 is being created. ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1, t. 6 digits 21 is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay: A new §7 is being created. .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 points 1 and 6 are repealed. 2. In para. 6 after the words "al." The figure 1 is replaced by the figure 2. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u131	That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u132	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u133	Well, then it's § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u134	Yeah, but then he has a proposal under § 2, and then he's already...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u135	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u136	Paragraph 2 by importer. Proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay: A new §8 is being created. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, t. 7 After the words "heat energy" the words "and compensation for electricity" shall be added, which shall be bought by final suppliers to cover the consumption of domestic end customers, for electricity distribution sites at a low voltage level. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u137	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atalay. You can make a general statement on all your suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u138	Thank you. My fellow Members, after the first vote, it has become clear that you do not want to liberalise the wholesale energy market. You do not want us to introduce the capacity mechanism by which we can save from bankruptcy TEC-2 and the mines. You don't want there to be a reform of energy. It's easier for you to go now...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u139	By the lyrics, Mr. Atalay. By the specific texts, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u140	I'll finish, Mr. Chairman, yes. It's right on the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u141	Second reading we do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u142	Yeah. You don't want to go to elections because you're afraid some might not vote for you. You fellow Members have now done what may bring you the worst election result. You...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u143	I remind you twice, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u144	You guys, considering that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u145	Specifically, text-by-text text, chapter by chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u146	...energy isn't the work of energyists, it's the work of politicians, that's why our energy is in this state. Taking into account the first vote, the lack of the first texts, from now on, my proposals have become meaningless. We do not need to continue to weigh on society, especially those MPs who are burdened with energy. Therefore, colleagues, with great regret I withdraw the proposals made by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, supported by BSP, supported by the nationalists supported by GERB and supported by Volya, who are currently not there. With great regret, all who agree to have energy reform are today subject to election process policy. Thank you. Note that my proposals that are not accepted, I withdraw them. There are only those of hydrogen and those proposals that have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u147	Is this about the whole law, Mr. Atalay, or just the specifics we accept now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u148	For the whole law, because after the first paragraphs that have not been adopted, it is lost logic, the meaning, the support for energy is lost. Congratulations to all of you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u149	Yes, thank you. Only about hydrogen when the time comes, you can just call, or Mr. Nikolov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Once the proposals for a new § 5, § 6, § 7 and § 8, have been withdrawn, I shall put to the vote § 2 to the importer. Vote 98 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 15. Paragraph 2 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u150	The proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay has been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. Then there is a proposal from the MP Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. Under § 4 of the importer, there is a proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. Paragraph 5 by importer. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, made in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36b, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words '1 MW and more than 1 MW' are replaced by '500 kW' and 'over 500 kW'. 2. A t is created. 3: "3." for interest agreed by a framework agreement between the Fund and a credit or other financing institution for financing energy efficiency projects; the amount of the financial resource that the Fund provides for interest shall be validated by the Committee on a proposal from the Chair of the Fund. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, made in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the It's five o'clock. adopt rules for determining the minimum conditions under the framework agreements and for selecting credit or other financing institutions under art. 36b, para. 1, t. 3 which is submitted for approval by the Council of Ministers. According to § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36f, para. 1, t. 1 sentence 2 is created: suppliers of electricity from an energy facility for the production of electricity from renewable sources or from green hydrogen put into operation after 1 January 2021, with the exception of producers under art. 24, p. 1 of the Renewable Energy Act, where electricity is purchased under the terms of art. 31 of the same law, they do not owe a contribution to the fund; According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Nine. information on the type of standardized load profile of energy service users related to the supply of electricity. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 4 is created t. 6: It's six. sale of compressed natural gas obtained through a station to increase the pressure of natural gas by compression, as well as to sell natural gas from a local mining plant.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u151	Thank you. I shall open the deliberations under § 3 and § 4 by importer, § 5 by the version of the Commission, a new § 6 by the wording of the Commission, § 6, which shall become § 7 by the wording of the Commission, § 7, which shall become § 8 by importer, and a new § 9 and § 10 by the wording of the Commission. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u152	In a nutshell, I would like to say two things that I think are important so that they can be recorded in the protocol. Two things are important. The first is to start with the previous paragraph, in fact, we, with the amendment of the Energy Act, are forcing all electricity distribution companies in the invoices they send to their customers to issue the cargo profile they will receive. What does that mean? That every consumer of electricity in Bulgaria, having already built a platform in the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, which is necessarily made with our proposed amendment of the Energy Act, will be able to choose a supplier of electricity because he already knows his profile, meaning he will not blindly choose without knowing what price he will receive from his supplier of electricity because at this time he does not know his load profile. When he knows this load profile, he will be able to change his contract with the electricity supplier with one click or be able to choose one. So I think this is another action that we are doing in order to liberalise the market not only wholesale but also retail. You know that any consumer can go freely to the energy market. The other thing that we do with these paragraphs that I have read is that we are giving the Power System Security Fund to expand its funding range, namely by paying interest to a syndicated credit portfolio of lending institutions. Not only banks for which we have amended the Commission will be able to form a financial resource that will be able to invest in energy efficiency and renewables. This financial resource will be able to use absolutely all Bulgarian citizens as legal, whether as individuals, as long as they meet the conditions that will be approved by the Council of Ministers. That is, we will be able to consolidate a portfolio that will be approved, for example 100 million. BGN, 500 million BGN, depending on what ambitions the government wants to bet. Debted persons, who are energy efficiency and described in the Energy Efficiency Act, will also be able to benefit from such a financial instrument. And I think this will have a direct impact on the growth of gross domestic product because, as we know, and Mr Ermenkov even said in the Commission that a lev invested in energy efficiency has repeatedly returned to the growth of gross domestic product, as well as to the budget, of course, for such purposes. So I think that these two things should be noted because they are important to the Bulgarian consumer and the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u153	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines on the speech of the MP Nikolov? There are no lines. I'm closing the debate. All MPs, please put on their masks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u154	And enter the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u155	Don't shout out of the hall, I won't say like what! I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 3 and 4 by importer; § 5 by version of the Commission; the creation of a new § 6 by version of the Commission; and § 6 which shall become § 7 by version of the Commission; § 7 by importer which shall become § 8 by importer; the creation of new paragraphs 9 and 10 by version of the texts which have been read. Voting mode. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u156	Mr. Nikolov, continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay. The motion has been withdrawn. Mr. Ramadan Atalay's proposal. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u158	You might as well say in a package all the proposals are submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u159	All offers are withdrawn to... Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84, para. 2 the words "dissuppliing, providing a cold reserve and "suppliing' shall be replaced by "dissuppliing and providing'.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u160	That's it. I'm opening the debate under § 11. Anyone? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the wording of Paragraph 11 as amended by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 75, none, abstention 10. Paragraph 11 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u161	There are three proposals from Mr. Ramadan Atalay who have been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 12. Then there are seven proposals of Mr. Ramadan Atalay who have been withdrawn. Then it's § 9 by importer. There's a proposal from Mr. Ramadan Atalay that's been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u162	Okay, that's it. Are there any statements under paragraphs 8 and 9, which become paragraphs 12 and 13? Anyone? I can't see. We're putting an end to this debate. The voting regime is to vote on the texts of paragraphs 8 and 9 by importer, which become paragraphs 12 and 13 with a new numbering. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 12 and 13 with the new numbering have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u163	There is a proposal from the MP Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Chapter 9, the name of Section VIII is amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 15, and shall be deleted. Four proposals of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay have been withdrawn, as you said, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112, para. 2, p. 1 the
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u164	So far, thank you. I open the discussion on the new § 14, as well as paragraphs 15 and 16 by importer with their new numbering. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the new § 14 as amended by the Commission; and § 10 by importer, which shall become § 15 by importer; and the creation of a new § 16 by the Commission. Voting regime on these three paragraphs. Vote 82 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted. Please show by groups this sign vote for the Cold Reserve. Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs for a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov, made in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116, para. The second sentence is created: "The electricity lines high and medium voltage, which connect the systems under para. 4 with the relevant grid at the connection point and are not an element of the transmission or the relevant distribution network shall be constructed by the manufacturer at his own expense and shall be owned by the manufacturer. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117, para. 5 A sentence second is created: The electrical systems high and medium voltage remain the property of the customer and in the case of connection with the direct electricity line of the electricity producer to the system of the customer for its supply of electricity. Proposed by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay. Then we have § 11.. by importer. Proposed by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 20. Mr. Ramadan Atalay's proposal, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172b is created s (5) Where the start of a pipeline network is located in a third country and the first point of entry to the gas network of the Member States is located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Energy shall consult the competent authority of the third country to ensure compliance with the Bulgarian legislation and the law of the European Union with regard to the relevant pipeline network in the territory of the Member States. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172d The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 t. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. the exemption is not detrimental to competition in the relevant markets likely to be affected by the investment, the effective functioning of the internal market for natural gas, the effective functioning of the regulated systems concerned or the security of the supply of natural gas in the European Union. 2. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: . (7) Before adopting the decision under para. 6, the Commission shall hold consultations: 1. with the regulatory authorities of the Member States whose markets are likely to be affected by the new infrastructure; 2. to the relevant competent authorities of third countries where the infrastructure is connected to the European Union network under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Bulgaria and is starting or ending in one or more third countries. (8) The Commission may adopt a decision under para. 6 and in cases where the authorities of the third country to which a request for consultation has been made do not respond to the request within three months. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172e are created. 5 and 6: . (5) Where the infrastructure concerned is a transport pipeline between the Republic of Bulgaria and a third country and where the first interconnection point with the network of the Member States is located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria before adopting the decision under para. 2 in relation to the exemption, the Commission may consult the competent authority of the third country in order to ensure compliance with the Bulgarian legislation regarding the relevant infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and, where applicable, in the territorial sea of the Republic of Bulgaria. (6) The Commission may adopt a decision under para. 2 and in cases where the authorities of the third country to which a request for consultation has been made do not respond to the request within three months. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175, para. 1, t. 7 a person selling compressed natural gas and selling compressed natural gas is added after the words "natural gas."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u166	So far, Mr. Nikolov. I open the deliberations on the texts on the proposed new paragraphs 17 and 18 under the version of the Commission; under paragraphs 11 and 12 by importer, which become paragraphs 19 and 20 by new numbering; and under the new paragraphs 21, 22, 23 and 24. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put the above paragraphs to the vote. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The new paragraphs 17 and 18 in the version of the Commission have been adopted; paragraphs 11 and 12 by importer, which become paragraphs 19 and 20, have been adopted; and the new paragraphs 21 to 24, including the version which has been made available to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u167	Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Section VII shall be established in Chapter twelfth with art. 200a and 200b: Section VII Agreements relating to the operation of the transmission pipelines or the extraction of a pipeline network Art. 200a. (1) The transmission network operator may conclude technical agreements relating to the operation of transmission pipelines from and to third countries, insofar as they do not conflict with European Union law. (2) The transmission network operator shall inform the Commission and the regulatory authorities of the Member States concerned of the technical agreements concluded on the operation of transmission pipelines from and to third countries. Art. 200b. (1) Before the start of intergovernmental negotiations with a third country for the purpose of amending, extending, adapting, renewing or concluding an agreement relating to the operation of a transport pipeline with a third country, the Council of Ministers shall designate the competent authority responsible for conducting the negotiations. (2) No later than 5 months before the scheduled date for the opening of the negotiations, the competent authority under para. 1 inform the European Commission in writing by providing the relevant documentation and indicating which are the provisions to be negotiated or renegotiated, the objectives of the negotiations and any other relevant information. (3) During the negotiations the competent authority under para. 1 shall comply with the guidelines given by the European Commission pursuant to Decision (EU) 2017/684 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017 establishing a mechanism for the exchange of information in relation to intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments between Member States and third countries in the field of energy and repealing Decision No 994/2012/EU (OB, L 99/1 of 12 April 2017) , hereinafter referred to as "Decision (EU) (4) The competent authority under para. 1 informs the European Commission of the progress and results of the negotiations during their different stages. The European Commission may participate in negotiations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the third country with observer status under Decision (EU) 2017/684. (5) Before signing an intergovernmental agreement with a third country, the competent authority under para. 1 informs the European Commission of the outcome of the negotiations and presents the text of the negotiated agreement. (6) An intergovernmental agreement with a third country shall be signed after authorisation by the European Commission. (7) The competent authority under para. 1 shall notify the European Commission of the signing and entry into force of the Agreement and of any subsequent change. According to § 13 there is a proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) point 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. "Additional services' are all services necessary for the operation of the electricity system, which include participation in voltage regulation and reactive power supply, participation in primary frequency regulation, automatic secondary control and manual control of frequency and exchange capacity, possibility of launching without the aid of an external source and powering a part of a network and load regulation. (b) To be created t. 24e: ..24e. The hydrogen is a hydrogen produced by electrolytes or other technologies using renewable energy sources. The electricity used for the production of green hydrogen shall be guaranteed the origin of energy from renewable sources. (c) point 32b is amended as follows: "32b." "International gas pipeline' is a transport pipeline that crosses or follows the border between Member States for the purpose of connecting the national transmission systems of those Member States, or a transport pipeline between the Republic of Bulgaria and a third country to the territory of the country or to its territorial waters. (d) shall be established. 59c: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. "Standarised load profile" is a profile of the consumption of final electricity customers without the possibility of periodically measuring the quantities of electricity for each settlement period, which is developed by electricity distribution network operators under the terms of the rules under art. Reg. 91, para. 2. (e) point 61 is repealed. 2. In § la, following the words "Directive 2009/73/EC of 13 July 2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in natural gas and repealing Directive 2003/55/EC (OB, L 211/94 of 14 August 2009) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. supposed to be at the end of the restructuring period.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u168	Make an offer for editing in point....................................................................................................................... Give me a Bulgarian word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u169	That's a technical term. There's no way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u170	You can do anything, but come on, you don't want to. Okay. I shall open the debate on the proposal for a new § 25 and § 13, which shall become § 26 as amended by the Commission. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the new § 25 as amended by the Commission and § 13, which shall become § 26 with the new version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The paragraphs in question have been adopted by the Commission in paragraphs 25 and 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u171	Just one procedure, Mr. Chairman. Let me let you know that one of Mr. Atalay's proposals is generally accepted. I read it was withdrawn. It is not withdrawn but adopted in principle, so it is enshrined in the Commission's version. Just to keep in mind for the record.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u172	What's the paragraph to get into the transcript?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u173	The proposal under § 13 by importer. There is then a proposal from Mr Atalay, which is generally supported and is laid down in the version of the Commission for § 13, which becomes § 26. Just to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u174	Yeah, for hydrogen. He had announced that this point should be reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u175	Thank you. I apologize for that. Mr. Atalay must want to speak on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u176	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u177	I'm the one who announced the debate. He wants a re-vote. Revoting § 25 by the version of the Commission and § 13 by importer, which becomes § 26 by the version which was read to you by the rapporteur. 88 MPs voted: 88, no opposition and no abstentions, so the two paragraphs were unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u178	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 29. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. (1) Technical agreements relating to the operation of transmission pipelines from and to third countries concluded by a transmission network operator until the entry into force of this law shall remain in force insofar as they do not conflict with the Bulgarian legislation, the law of the European Union and the applicable decisions of the Commission on energy and water regulation. (2) Intergovernmental agreements with a third country relating to the operation of a pipeline or pipeline network concluded before the entry into force of this law shall remain in force until a subsequent agreement between the European Union and the third country is entered into force or until the procedure under art. 200b. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 31, and the words................................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration (Dv, No. 70 from 2020) Paragraph 7 of the transitional and final provisions is repealed. According to § 19 there is a proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atali: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 33. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 34: ................. The Act shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 7, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u179	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. I shall open the deliberations referred to in paragraphs 14 to 20 by importer, including the proposal for a new § 30 proposed by the Commission, as well as the title of the section. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Total for all proposals just to summarize before we complete the Law. I think we did a lot of good things with this law. You see, thank God, we have a consensus again in the Energy Committee because we see that these things are important. They give Bulgaria one advantage to be able to meet its goals by 2030. One of the few countries that gives the term "Zereo hydrogen" what it is and is able to benefit from all European Commission programmes that focus on green hydrogen, and thus brings the Gas Directive into contact with third countries. You know that Bulgaria is a border of the European Union, that is, these texts will be needed. That is why we are promulging them, not the whole directive, which will later make the Ministry of Energy. These texts of this directive give the settlement of third countries with Bulgaria as a Member State, and accordingly is the attitude of Bulgaria with the European Commission and other Member States of the European Union. We give the opportunity to encourage investment in energy efficiency and renewables and the production of hydrogen, which must gradually replace both the intermediate gas fuel and the existing hydrocarbons, which will be slightly shifted precisely from these renewable sources and green energy. I just wanted to sum up, thank all my colleagues from the Energy Commission. Although in the face of elections, we continue to look pragmatically at this sector of our economy, precisely at the sector of............................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u181	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Replies to Mr. Nikolov's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote: the title of the section 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. Paragraphs have been adopted. We have completed the amendments and additions to the Energy Act. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICAN STATES, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND OF HIS MEMBER STATES, OF THE OTHER COUNTRY, ICELAND, OF THE THIRD COUNTRY, AND THE KINGDOM OFNORwegIA, OF THE FOUR PARTY, AND OF THE ADDITIONAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE PART, ICELAND, OF THE OTHER PARTY, AND THE KINGDOM OFNORwegIA, OF THE THIRD PARTN, OF THE APPLICATION OF THE AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN AMERICAN STATES, OF THE UNITED STATES, OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF THE OTHER COUNTRY, OF ICELAND, OF THE THIRD COUNTRY, AND THE KINGDOM OF NORwegIA, OF THE FRONTH, REFERRED TO THE EUROPEAN UNION, OF 17 June 2011 IN THE UNITED STATES OF BULGARIA, OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Danchev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a draft law ratifying the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, and the Additional Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third country, of the other part, implementing the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country signed in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 002-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020. At a meeting of the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Commission held on 13 January 2021, a Draft for ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, and the Additional Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third country, of the third country, of the third country, of Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 002-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who presented the Bill. Mr. Zanchev stated that the extension of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, to cover Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, increases the benefits for consumers, airlines, workforce and communities in the European Union. A fully open aviation space shall be established between the United States of America, the European Union, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway. Air carriers from the Republic of Bulgaria and the other Member States are granted access to more commercial opportunities, a larger market is created with options for more participants, generating additional passengers and economic benefits for airlines and consumers. The importers explained that it would thus ensure a harmonised framework for the provision of transatlantic air services between the United States of America and the Single Air Market of the European Union, including Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, as they participate fully in the Common European Aviation Area and fully adopt European Union aviation policy law. The two agreements were signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. They shall be applied provisionally from the date of signature by the Union and, to the extent permitted by applicable national law, by its Member States and by other parties, until the procedures for their conclusion have been completed. At present, the Accession Agreement and the Additional Agreement have been ratified by 19 Member States of the European Union. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 13 votes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u183	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Place your masks, please! Mr. Genov, the mask! Procedure? Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Veliko Zanchev s Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u185	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission to the House of the invited person. Vote 68 MPs: 62, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please, Quaestors, invite the official to take his place. Following is the report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft law ratifying the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, and the Additional Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third country, implementing the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland of the third country, of the fourth country signed on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 002-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020. At a regular meeting held on 20 January 2021, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the draft in question. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria with this bill is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify the above agreement by law. The importers point out that by the package of the two agreements Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway join the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, signed on behalf of the Member States on 25 April 2007 in Brussels and on behalf of the Community on 30 April 2007 in Washington and ratified by law (No 19 of 2009) , as amended by the Protocol amending the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, signed on 24 June 2010 in Luxembourg 2010, ratified by law (SG 14/2011) . The reasons explain that the extension of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, to cover Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, increases the benefits for consumers, airlines and labour force. Air carriers from the Republic of Bulgaria and other Member States are granted access to more commercial opportunities and a larger market with options for more participants is created. It is stated that the two agreements were signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. The Agreements shall be applied provisionally from the date of signature by the Union and, in so far as it is permissible by applicable national law, by its Member States and by other parties, until the procedures for their conclusion have been completed. Until now, the Accession Agreement and the Additional Agreement have been ratified by 19 Member States of the European Union. As a result of the nine-vote vote held after the discussion, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill ratifying the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, and the Additional Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third country, implementing the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, signed on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 002-02-22-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u187	Thank you, we heard Mr. Stoinev's report. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, on the fourth part, and the Kingdom of Norway, on the other part, on the application of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth part, signed on 17 June 2011. in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 002-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020. At its meeting held on 13 January 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the bill referred to above. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Mr. Hristo Shterionov, Director General at the General Directorate of Air Administration and Mrs. Lyudmila Trenkova, Director at the Directorate of Air Administration. The bill was presented by Mr. Shterionov, who pointed out that the package of agreements provides for Iceland and Norway to be included in the scope of the EU-US Air Transport Agreement, with the accession countries enjoying the same rights and obligations as the Member States of the European Union. It has been noted that a harmonised framework for the provision of transatlantic air services between the United States and the European Union's Single Air Market, including Iceland and Norway, is thus ensured. Mr. Zherionov added that the extension of the scope of the Agreement increases the benefits for consumers, airlines, labour force and communities in the European Union by granting access to air carriers from Bulgaria and other Member States to a larger market and more commercial opportunities. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 20 votes in favour of the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, and of the Additional Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the other part, on the implementation of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the other part, and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the fourth country, signed on 17 June 2011. in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 002-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I give the floor to the Foreign Policy Committee. Mr. Toshev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Law on the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, of the fourth country, to implement the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country signed on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 002-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020. At a meeting held on 13 January 2021, the Foreign Policy Committee examined Draft No 002-02-22. The reasons for the bill were presented by Veliko Zanev "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications." The two Agreements Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway accede to the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, signed on behalf of the Member States on 25 April 2007 in Brussels and on behalf of the Community on 30 April 2007 in Washington and ratified by a Law amended by a Protocol amending the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, signed on 24 June 2010 in Luxembourg 2010, ratified by Law. With the extension of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, to cover Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, the benefits for consumers, airlines, workforce and communities in the European Union are increased. A fully open aviation space shall be established between the United States of America, the European Union, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway. Air carriers from the Republic of Bulgaria and the other Member States are granted access to more commercial opportunities, a larger market is created with options for more participants, generating additional passengers and economic benefits for airlines and consumers. The two agreements were signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. They shall be applied provisionally from the date of signature by the Union and, to the extent permitted by applicable national law, by its Member States and by other parties, until the procedures for their conclusion have been completed. At present, the Accession Agreement and the Additional Agreement have been ratified by 19 Member States of the European Union. The agreements are subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, and the Additional Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the other part, on the other part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the other part, on the implementation of the Agreement on Air Transport between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth part, signed on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 002 02 22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u191	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. I'm opening the debate on the Agreement Bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, for the application of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country signed on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. A single member. Ratifying the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, and the Additional Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third country, implementing the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country signed on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed at first reading. Mr. Danchev, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly also propose to be subject to a second vote Draft for the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the other part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third part, implementing the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth part, signed on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 002-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u193	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. I'm putting the procedural motion to a vote. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. Please provide the Second Voting Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, for the application of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country signed on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium A single member. Ratifying the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, and the Additional Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third country, implementing the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country signed on 17 June 2011 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-21.u195	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. I open the debates on the name of the Bill, under Article one and the final provision. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the bill, the only article and the final provision. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The bill on ratification of the Agreement has been passed. I will now introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication on January 22, 2021, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer one question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer one question from the National Representative Violeta Jeleva. 4. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer eight questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Violeta Zheleva; Maria Tsvetkova; Krasimir Yankov and Nikolay Ivanov; Valentina Naydenova 5. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin. 6. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Kolyo Milev. 7. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva, Manol Genov and Hristo Prodanov; and Donka Simeonova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev; and Christian Vigenin. For lack of respectable reasons of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev his question is postponed to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov. That concludes the agenda of the sitting. The next meeting is tomorrow, 22 January 2021, at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
