ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome! Before we begin the sitting, honourable Members, I am obliged to check whether there is a quorum in the Chamber and whether there are more than half of the Members of Parliament. Since we don't have an electronic system, I'm going to read the names and ask anyone who hears their name to say here or raise their hand. [[noise and lines]] Adlen Shukri Shevked- here Albena Simeonova Varbanova- here Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Filchev Mateev- here Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov - here Alexander Velislavov Todorov- here Alexander Nikolov Valchev - here Alexander Stykov Markov - here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- here Andrei Hristov Valchev- here Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- here Andrey Nikolaev Mihaylov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- here Antoinette Andonova Stefanova- here Anton Yordanov Adamov here Armaan Agop Babikan here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Bajram Yuzkan Bajram here Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- here Bogdan Emilov Botsev- here Boyko Petrov Cafedjiev- here Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva- here Boris Tsvetkov- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- here Borislav Dimitrov Sandov- here Burhan Ilyazov Abase- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Vasileva Vasileva-Filadelfevs- here Vasil Yordanov Georgiev- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Велизар Матев Шаламанов- here Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- here Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- here Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev- here Vladislav Panchev Panev- here Faith Emilova Yordanova- here Galya Marinova Burdarska (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Yordanov Ganev-here Georgi Zaharinin Popov-here Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- here Grigor Angelov Gorchev- here Danny Stefanova Canazireva- here Daniel Pavlov Mitov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- here Deliana Valerieva Pesheva- here Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva- here Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Jekova Taneva- here Desislava Hristova Ahladova-Atanasova- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- here Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov- here Dimitar Petrov Syarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Gradev-- here. Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Dragomir Georgiev Osavkov- here Dragomir Stefanov Petrov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Ekaterina Spasova Gecheva-Zaharieva- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- here Enko Georgiev Naydenov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin-here Esheref Kasim Esheref-here Zhivka Mihaleva Iron- here Zhivko Ivanov Tabakov- here Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova- here Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- here Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev- here Ivaylo Peev Staribratov- here Ivaylo Vanev Valchev- here Ivaylo Krasimirov Kozhuharov- here Ivan Bogomilov Petkov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Borisov Totev- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Georgiev Velov- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Vassilev Hinoski- here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- here Ivo Georgiev Atanasov- here Iliana Petkova Zhekova- here Ilija Dimitrov Lazarov- here Ilian Slaveykov Yonchev- here Ilko Stoyanov - here Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- here Yordan Svedenov Stoyanov- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Ihsan Halil Hakke-here Kaloyan Milkov Yankov- here Katya Maximova Paneva- here Kiril Milanov Ananiev-here Kiril Sashev Simeonov- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Georgiev Angelov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasen Kirilov Kralev-here Krasimir Georgiev Valchev- here Krasimir Hristov Nikolov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krum Georgiev Donchev- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Dimitrov Borisov- here Lachezar Ivanov Bakardzhiev- here Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov- here Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- here Maxim Kolev Genchev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Kostadinov Peykov- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Maria Vassileva Capon- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Maston Osmanov Mastonov here. Maya Yordanova Dimitrova- here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova- here Mika Mikhailova Zaykova- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Minko Velchev Angelov- here Mitko Hristov Kunchev- here Michaela Yasenova Krumova- here Mladen Naydenov Marinov- here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Momchil Kunchev Ivanov- here Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova- here Nevena Evstatieva Mineva- here Nikola Hristov Krastev- here Nikolai Nankov Nankov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Hadjigenov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Peter Hristov Dimitrov- here Petar Yassenov Marinov-here Petya Nikolaeva Tsankova- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Ivanov Milev- here Plamen Hristomirov Rashev- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Ivanov Danailov- here Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski- here Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov- here Radomir Petrov Cholakov- here Radostin Petev Vassilev- here Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov- here Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza-here. Sasho Todorov Savov here Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov- here Svetoslav Bonchev Kolev- here Svetoslav Georgiev Georgiev- here Sevim Ismail Ali here Sezgin Yussain Mehmed- here Sergey Manushov Kichikov- here Sylvi Kirilov Petrov- here Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva- here Stanislav Dimitrov Govegorov- here Stanislav Svetozarov Balabanov- here Stanislav Todorov Trifonov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Stancho Dimitrov Stavrev- here Stella Dimitrova Nikolova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Nedelchev Mirev-here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Stoyan Kostadinov Stoev- here Stoyan Alexandrov Mihalev- here Stratzimir Ilkov Pavlov- here Tanner Kadir Turkoglu- here Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tatiana Doncheva Toteva- here Temenuzhka Petrova Petkova- here Theodora Margarita Peneva- here Tihomir Gochev Tenev- here Todor Baychev- here Todor Stamatov Todorov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Todor Vassilev Vassilev-here Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Tomislav Peykov Donchev- here Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov- here Tunjai Ramadan Ozturk here Philip Stefanov Popov here Philip Marinov Stanev-- here. Filcho Krastev Filev-- here. Hayri Recepov Sadakov- here Halil Recepov Letifov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Hamid Barry Hamid here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hatice Mehmedova Georgieva- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- here Hristo Bogomilov Terziyski- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov- here Hristo Mikhailov Dochev- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Ivanov Enchev- here Tsetska Georgieva Bachkova- here Ömer Mustafa Hamza- here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- here [[Discovered at 9:17 p.m.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] Our meeting may continue. [[Extreme applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting will be delivered directly on the Bulgarian National Television and on the Bulgarian National Radio. I ask for smiles and joy! [[Extreme applause.]] Let the people see that the MPs in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly are people of good humor and humor. Ladies and gentlemen, the relentless move of time and date in my birth certificate has given me the privilege of opening the forty-fifth National Assembly, which I am very happy about, and I hope to be a good godmother! [[Loud and long applause.]] Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Vice President, Your Excellencies, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court and senior magistrates, honourable representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, unfortunately, the Patriarch is ill and will not be here, honourable guests, honourable colleagues, honourable President Plevneliev, honourable presidents of the National Assembly, dear compatriots! For 1300 years at this hot crossroad the Bulgarians have been fighting for our beautiful and beautiful land as a human palm to have Bulgaria and to stay in the ages. Many of our ancestors and compatriots have died smiling at the freedom of this beautiful country. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that contemporary Bulgarians would also sacrifice their lives to have Bulgaria. Yes, Bulgaria has gone through very difficult trials, fateful battles, events, but has always risen, ladies and gentlemen, because our wise people have always found the right way to the resurrection. And now Bulgaria is in an extremely difficult situation as well as the whole world. You know, there's a world pandemic. We are in the midst of a global economic crisis, but Bulgaria can also be aggravated by a social crisis. Our people have told us many times what we are doing wrong, you, the old rulers, and we, supposedly the future new rulers, have told the truth many times about whether the protests, whether in a referendum, whether in elections, but on 4 April he sent us here, in this room, with only one command: change! Change, ladies and gentlemen! This change, which will bring Bulgaria out of all the last places in the European Union, because I hope you too, want to see in the eyes of the Bulgarians the happiness of not being the poorest, not being the least unhappy, not living the least and for the greatest regret of not being the most enlightened. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the country that was fifth in Europe in quality education is now, unfortunately, on the far 88th of 140 countries. This for Bulgarian ancient culture, for our millennium civilization is a shame and a disgrace! Bulgaria has given the world Paisii Hilendarski and its history Slavic Bulgarian. Bulgaria has given all Slavic books to read and alphabet. Bulgaria has given colosses like Ivan Vazov, Stoyan Mihajlovski. Bulgaria has given many gentle and militant poets, such as Dimcho Debelyanov and Nikola Vaptsarov. Bulgaria has given singers and artists who are written in gold letters in the pantheon of the Milan Rock, such as Boris Hristov, Elena Nikolay, Nikola Güzelev, Rayna Kabaivanska. Bulgaria has given scientists and inventors who have worked in all fields of science. Bulgaria has given great artists and none of you, I suppose, and I ourselves do not want our great artists, our great cultural figures to reach out for a pension. I think we can really do something very important here. Despite being different, despite having different political beliefs, I think we have one single goal, and this is the prosperity of Bulgaria and its worthy place in the European family. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that each of you will give the most of your knowledge and skills to achieve this goal. I think our ancestors have given us the formula for achieving this goal, it is written in their testament on the facade of this building: Bulgaria and the interests of the people are above all else! Don't forget who sent you here and why! [[Loud and long applause.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, we must do the most important part of today's sitting. Please stand up and repeat after me. [[Everyone rises and repeats the oath.]] I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! Thank you and good luck, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! [[Loud and long applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned in my opening statement, we are in a pandemic situation and there are colleagues of ours who are ill or in quarantine. That is why we want to take a decision, before we continue our work, to take an extraordinary decision, to take a remote participation by electronic means in the plenary session, including taking an oath, to the Members of the National Assembly placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine because of COVID-19. I give the floor to a representative from the parliamentary group of the people to read the decision and the reasons for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u2	Dear Mrs. Chairman, dear guests, dear colleagues! Project! DECISION adopting Rules for remote participation in the meetings of the forty-fifth National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 63 of the Health Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules for remote participation by electronic means in the meetings of the forty-fifth National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19, as follows: 1. Members of parliament placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to the COVID-19, as well as those close to contact within the meaning of an act of an authority under art. 61 of the Health Act of a confirmed case of COVID-19, are entitled to participate remotely electronically in the first and next plenary sessions of the Forty-fiveth National Assembly, including to take an oath under art. 76, para. 2 of the Constitution by remote participation. 2. Remote participation by electronic means is carried out through an internet platform for video conference, which provides direct and virtual participation in meetings. 3. The Members of the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Bulgaria 1 shall be registered for participation in the first plenary session by visualising a special screen in the plenary. 4. The President shall declare them to be present at the meeting and shall be added to the stenography protocol. 5. After taking an oath in the event of a request to vote, a statement, a reply, a duplicate, an explanation of a negative vote, a personal explanation or on procedural issues, in the remote participation of the participating Member of the National Assembly shall state its wish by request on the platform. The chairman shall give and take away the floor of the Member of the National Assembly through the platform. 6. For outstanding issues, as well as for participation in the next plenary sessions of the Members of the National Assembly. 1 The provisions of the National Assembly Decision of 6 November 2020 on the adoption of Rules for participation in the plenary meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, put under mandatory isolation or quarantine because of the COVID-19, with an act of authority under art. 61, para. 2 and 3 of the Health Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a representative of the people who would like to make such a decision? I can't see. We proceed to a raise-the-eye vote. I ask the Quaestors to take their seats. Voting mode. Who's up for it? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There's no restraint, there's no objection, they're all for it. The decision's been made. Please include the internet conference platform which will ensure direct and virtual participation in the meeting of colleagues placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine. Dear colleagues, in order to become MPs, you must swear. Repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u4	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u5	Welcome, fellow MPs, a recent recovery! [[(Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound. (Applause)]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria has expressed a desire to address you and our compatriots. I give the floor to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev. [[The People's Representatives of the BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................................... Goons out! It's okay. Huge applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u6	Dear Mrs. Zaykova, Mrs. Vice President, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers, honourable Presidents of the Supreme Courts and representatives of the judiciary, honourable representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, your excellences, honourable Presidents and Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, dear compatriots! First, I would like to address you, Members of the National Assembly, and congratulate you on the highly responsible mission that the Bulgarian voters assigned to you to represent the people, to uphold its rights and interests, to fulfill its wishes. For many here, this is the first electoral position. There will always be someone who will reproach you in your lack of experience. I heard the same thing when I entered the 2016 presidential race, I hear it now. This should not discourage you. In politics, some call their sins and art to remain unpunished, to trade with the public, even with the national interest in the name of their survival. With their vote, voters rejected this understanding of politics, they asked for new people. No one is sinless, but those whose political existence begins now have the chance to record just in public a beautiful chapter in their biographies. So take the lack of experience as an opportunity. In this House there are worthy politicians with parliamentary past who, in previous mandates, advocated parliamentaryism. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you to make the new National Assembly work professionally and respectfully. You inherit an institution in a deep crisis. The past National Assembly abdicated from the active parliamentary control. Procedure techniques to avoid public discussion have been applied systematically. The wicked practice has been established that the bills of the executive power should be submitted by groups of MPs so as not to engage the political responsibility of the cabinet. Key laws have been amended by transitional and final provisions quietly in other laws that are not at the centre of public attention. The legal nihilism of the Forty-fourth National Assembly reached its apogee when the majority decided to buy time under the pretext of a new Constitution. I thank those of you who have stopped this political and legal misunderstanding. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I often vetoed, but rarely, unfortunately, my arguments had a healing effect. It is time to accept that the presidential veto is not an act of war with parliament, but an instrument for improving the laws. Everything mentioned has led to a historic collapse in the trust of the most important institution in the parliamentary Republic of the National Assembly. You have the mission to revive parliamentaryism. The first test for your success will be the restoration of real parliamentary control over the executive power. No one can, and you know it well as people's chosen ones, to trade you, sell or rent, or silence your voice. You carry the free will and the trust of thousands of voters and cannot be fortified by any political leader. No one has the right to insult your personal dignity unless you allow it yourself. The forty-fiveth National Assembly is convened at a complicated time. It is an expression of the monthly protests and of the common will to change. We all see the Parliament is fragmented and some of you, as well as many analysts have a short life at the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. Time will show what it will be and it is entirely up to you, but no matter how long it lasts, there are responsible and urgent decisions before parliament. The first is the creation of a government. The COVID-19 crisis, bankruptcy, poverty, urgent budgetary update, overcoming drastic delays on all important indicators in the European Union, the need for intensive modernisation of the country requires operational solutions. As early as Monday, I will be consulting with the parliamentary groups to form a government, but achieving a ruling majority, however necessary, should not be a mathematical sum of votes, because an unprincipled coalition can only deepen the crisis. You know the maxim that when everyone is in government, the people are in opposition. Clear priorities are needed, a clear value framework, clear boundaries of possible compromises and, above all, a clear political responsibility that does not lie behind the figures of experts. In the past elections, the Bulgarians stopped yelling and declared their will for change. The rain and fear of the pandemic did not stop millions of voters from giving their vote. Thousands of countrymen abroad traveled hundreds of miles and waited for hours to declare their commitment to the future of the homeland. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, it's time! Regardless of what will be the course of consultations and mandates to form a government, Parliament must take immediate action to reform the Election Law. A number of proposals, including 100% machine vote, video surveillance, lightening the work of the electoral administration, fair access to the media in the election campaign, more polling stations and providing a remote vote for our countrymen abroad, were made during a year and a half of consultations in which some of you participated. We owe it to the humiliated members of election committees forced to wait 24/7, stuffed in halls and buses. We owe it to our countrymen abroad, who enthusiastically showed us that for them Bulgaria is not only a birthplace, not only a past, but also the Fatherland, where thousands dream of returning. The historic moment at which we are present puts this Parliament before the mission to make long-awaited changes to achieve the most important immediate national goal. There is a need for decisive action to dismantle the ruling model rejected by voters, to promote the rule of law, neutralize the backstage, cross corruption, return citizens to governance. Without achieving this goal, all new governance configurations and their economic and social policies will continue to be doomed to failure and Bulgaria to be concreteized in the last places in the European Union according to standard and quality of life. A key step along this path is the broadcasting of a new type of governance, synthesis of integrity and competence. Moral qualities, culture, the professionalism of the government that we all expect you to broadcast as quickly as possible will be crucial for returning trust in the institutions, for removing the country from the crisis and for our full European integration. I believe that it will be a strong sign if you, the political forces to which the Bulgarians have given their trust, reach consensus on the formulation and implementation of a pact of integrity and competence for the nominated high management positions. It is also urgent to adopt changes in the regulatory framework to guarantee civil rights, effective justice, responsible and honest prosecution, real separation of authorities, transparent and predictable legal process, uncompromising prosecution of corruption, strengthening the protection of property and fair competition. Our society awaits an enormous expansion of the mechanisms for transparency and accountability of governance. I think it is high time that Parliament took over more tangible control over the expenditures of the executive power, and especially on the pointless waste of a carefully grown budget surplus. Let us also give municipalities a better chance of economic and social upsurge through financial decentralisation and increased administrative rights. The restoration of statehood, sovereignty, justice and the fight against corruption are unthinkable without free media and independent journalism. Thanks for the media being here today. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I hope that media freedom will be guaranteed through transparency of media property, financial independence of public media from executive power and the maintenance of high professional and ethical standards. This should be among the main priorities of this and of all the following parliaments. The old National Assembly has isolated journalists. I hope you can correct that mistake. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I am convinced that without the priority realization of the changes to strengthen statehood that I have put before you, Bulgaria cannot unfold its huge potential, which I am convinced that we all believe it has. They are the inalienable foundation on which the next governments will be able to deploy creative policies in all areas of social and economic life. We need a full debate on the obstacles to our country's development and their overcoming, the scope and level of our national ambitions, for our goals on the path to democratic, modern and European Bulgaria and the way they achieve them. I would like to assure you that, as Head of State, I am prepared to participate in this debate and to work according to my constitutional powers to bring our country together on the road to these nationally important objectives. I also expect Parliament to take account of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. I expect this plan, so important to our country, to take into account a number of rational proposals and to show a higher level of national ambitions for a decisive modernisation of our country. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to state, in the event that the National Assembly fails to broadcast a government, I will fulfill my constitutional obligations to appoint a service cabinet. I wish you all to write your names in the history of Bulgaria with just laws and valor of the Fatherland. Good luck! [[Burning applause from ICN, BSP, DPS, DB and ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an announcement to make. Today in the Ministry of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 111, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is submitted the resignation of the Council of Ministers. [[Burning applause from ICN, BSP, DPS, DB and ISM. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] I do not wish to comment, but it is either a shame for the people and for you not to come here and resign, or it is contempt for this institution. [[Bourney applause from ICN, BSP, DPS, DB and ISV]] After all, we are a parliamentary republic. [[Burning applause from ICN, BSP, DPS, DB and ISV.]] Let's get on with our work. Ladies and gentlemen, words will be spoken by the representatives of the different parliamentary groups. For a speech I give the floor to a representative of the Coalition GERB-SDS. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go. [[GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u8	Mrs. Chairman of the first meeting of the 45th National Assembly, Mr. President, Mrs. Vice President, Your Excellencies, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, honourable representatives of the religious communities, honourable members of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, honourable MPs, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable President Plevneliev, honourable former Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen! The elections are over and the people have spoken. With this the easy part for all of us is over. Today it is time for all of us to take our responsibility to the vote of our constituents, to the stability of the state and to a better tomorrow, and responsibility is heavy. Often it is unbearable for those who view politics only as a means of building an image. We face health, economic and social challenges. From the position of people with more experience, we will tell you that a crisis cannot be managed by talking alone, a crisis is managed by action and decision making, and often the most pressing and right solutions are unpopular. In the past parliamentary elections 837 thousand 707 Bulgarian citizens voted for GERB. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] None of the parties present in the 45th National Assembly are close to this result. As many analyses, arithmetic equations and exercises to be done, the winner is only one and it is GERB! [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Noise. Commendations by ISM: "Woo! "]] At least you have to admit it. I will take this moment to remind you that our party has won the fifth parliamentary vote in a row and a total of fourteen consecutive elections. The winner is congratulated, but it depends not only on the upbringing and culture, but also on the political experience of all of you. For us, it is clear that long-standing governments tire. The fact is that after so long the sovereign still puts us firmly in the first place, and this shows two things people appreciate what we have done or do not see a good enough alternative to beat us by the result. Now is the time for all of us to thank the entire electoral administration, which guarantees the conduct of an honest and transparent vote. The latter is also seen from the Report of International Experts and Observers from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Despite the pandemic and despite the great efforts of the opposition to impress citizens that the vote will be brutally replaced, will be manipulated, the elections passed normally. The greatest evidence that they passed normally is the presence of all of us in this Chamber and the recognition of the results of the elections. We have received the trust of much of the citizens and we are obliged to justify it. We will propose the composition and structure of a new government [[Laughter]] whose members will be ready to deal immediately with the challenges facing our country. We will propose a cabinet that, from day one, can work at the same high speed that has supported the current government. And yes, thanks to the work of the government resigned the minimum pension is already 300 BGN, our country is in the Banking Union, it is energy independent, teachers receive twice as much wages as four years ago, the total resource for overcoming the pandemic is nearly 4 billion. The construction and construction of highways and roads in the mandate are 522 km. If our proposal for a cabinet is not supported, the responsibility for stability and development will be taken over by the second party, which is Mr. Stanislav Trifonov's, and perhaps the other formations, which have proclaimed themselves the bearers of change. Right here is the time for silence to be broken and the viewers of the show to get acquainted with the short-term and long-term management intentions of the second political power, to see the management team, to hear something outside the usual slogans, calls, spells. We have important, fast and difficult decisions ahead of us. All of us owe answers to the important questions for our country. If we continue the measures in support of the business, if new restrictions are imposed, if we continue the course to the euro area, if we find common language with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, will we protect the agreed 29 billion. Euros under the Recovery Plan? We have an answer to these questions and these answers were supported by nearly 900,000 Bulgarian citizens. And if someone thinks he can circumvent and isolate the opinion of a quarter of Bulgarian citizens in making these decisions, then that means that he neither understands nor realizes the policy rules in the context of democracy. If anyone thinks they can neglect the voice of all these people, they will soon pay a heavy political price. Honourable MPs, at the beginning of the election campaign by GERB, we committed to working to return to normal political dialogue. We have called for joint action in the name of national interests and for faster overcoming health, economic and social challenges. Our call was not accepted by the other political forces. Most likely this behavior is dictated either by political inexperience, or by uncontrollable personal ambitions, which, however, cloud the most important fact, the people choose us to serve it, not our own demons and passions. [[Laughter]] [[Replicate from the National Representative Nikolai Hadzhigenov: "You are serving Borisov, not the people. "]] In the last year we have heard all kinds of spells and they continue today that GERB must be scratched, destroyed, torpedoed. We accept and accept insults and attacks with patience. We are aware of our responsibility. So today we can clearly say that hatred does not build, but can only destroy and carve gaps in society. The denial of the political opponent can indeed bring temporary success, however, then the one who used hatred as his main political weapon is obliged to show in what and what he is better at, and in an environment of division and anger. This is the more difficult task, and if it is not done, the road is only one way back to political non-existence. I'll take the liberty of distracting a huge delusion that bravely circulates in some parts of the room today. On 4 April Bulgarian citizens did not say that GERB should be gone. On the contrary, the people broadcast us a highly fragmented parliament, and they clearly said that they expect all of us, their representatives, to find agreement and together to fight the challenges facing our country. This is a difficult and responsible task. Unfortunately, perhaps some are not only unable to participate in her decision, but perhaps difficult to understand. Talking about new elections in the middle of summer is the most visible symptom of this misunderstanding. In the elections the Bulgarians said their word, and we must answer them with political decisions. If we're not able to do that, that means we don't understand them. Therefore, once again, we say that we are ready to offer country governance and reach out to our political opponents. We refuse to be held responsible if the country is thrown into chaos and chaos, so that one party or another in one early election can win several more hypothetical MPs. We warn that the timelessness of an office will be paid by all Bulgarian citizens. This price will consist in deepening economic problems, the failure of the state to help anyone who suffers from the crisis and the slower recovery from it. My fellow Members, the criticisms really only work to one point, and this is the moment when you get a mandate to manage from the sovereign to prove that you can fulfill everything promised before the elections. And here's the hard part, because the responsibility for millions of lives weighs heavily. You must have great shoulders and great patience to bear it. Evilness and thirst for revenge and revenge are not enough to rule a country. We have already learned that Carthage must be destroyed. [[Noise and lines on the right. Applause by GERB-SDS.]] We still haven't figured out what's next. You owe this answer not to us. [[a line from the National Representative Nikolai Hadzhigenov: "Answers owe them to you! "]] , and to all Bulgarians and especially those who supported you. The only thing we have seen at this moment is that in this complex and difficult environment, Parliament began its work with threats of rematch. Are these the fruits of your imaginary victory?! [[Noise and lines from ISM.]] I am sure that with the oath that we have taken today, we all feel the burden of trust that has been assigned to us as MPs. I believe that today, in this country's period of trials, Bulgaria will find its responsible statesmen who will work wholeheartedly. We are in a health crisis that can grow into a social and economic crisis. Let's solve the crises, not deepen them. Colleagues, there's a working parliament starting today. We hope that there will soon be a working government that will assume its responsibility, a government with a programme and face the people. I expect all of us, both the government and all the institutions, to work together for the problems we face in front of our society. Many times our homeland has been in difficult situations. More than once, the election results have been surprising, but we have no right to run away from the answers to the complex task that voters have put in front of each of us, because people expect to live well and dignified, and not only in the foreseeable future, but obviously to feel the change for the better in their daily lives. Very soon, here in this Chamber, debates will begin on the necessary short-term and long-term measures. The National Assembly must propose effective solutions that have a sustainable and lasting outcome. However, in order for all this to happen, a systematic approach is needed, based on the continuity of priorities and a strong sign of preserving the country's strategic priorities for a worthy membership in the European Union and NATO, entering the Schengen area, adopting the euro, defending macroeconomic stability, supporting investment, employment, income, pensions. But also against xenophobia, anti-Semitism and other manifestations of intolerance. [[noise]] Not only Bulgaria, the European Union, but also other countries around the world are in severe health crisis. We hope that the crisis will soon pass, but today, with our actions, we will determine Bulgaria's place in Europe and in this rapidly developing world. We must meet Bulgarian citizens and their expectations for growth, employment and what country we want to be in this and in the coming years. I know that on this day there are traditionally big political messages, a vision being drawn. However, we must remind ourselves that it all begins with the clear answers to the specific problems that have come to our nation. The first assessments of their work will give the new Parliament and government what solutions they will propose in the field of health and social spheres, how they will build on what they have achieved in the European funds, macroeconomic stability and policies for the accelerated construction of modern infrastructure. Even before the next government is established, we, the political parties in the 45th National Assembly, must answer the question of how we will guarantee the policies to increase incomes and support those in need, not only by providing aid, but by creating conditions for real, quality and sustainable employment. That's what business does, not the state. But the state has an important role to play in improving the business environment, creating a good climate for entrepreneurship, investment and economic growth. Predictability is the most important prerequisite to increase investment and jobs. Dear colleagues, it's time for the show to end! [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Because, unlike the show, there are no sketches on the political stage, rarely are applause and congratulations. Politics has jobs, compromises, disappointments and wounds. Politics requires courage and determination. And today, the highest form of courage that we can all show together is to give ourselves a hand and restore the dialogue between us and to protect the motto of our ancestors, written at the entrance of this building:. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, for the program speech you gave. [[World laughter and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you very much to refrain from insulting innuendo. Mrs. Atanasova herself said that malice is not a good advisor and I believe that we should follow her advice. Evil isn't a good counselor. [[Applause.]] And stupidity, ladies and gentlemen, is paid most dearly! I'm sorry about this lyrical deviation, but I just want to pay attention. I give the floor to the representative of the Political Party there is such a people as the President is not there. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u10	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Vice President, Your Excellencies, Honorable President of the Constitutional Court and representatives of the judiciary, Dear Representatives of the Religious Communities in Bulgaria, Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Citizens, who are outside this Chamber, who are currently in front of the Parliament, Dear Bulgarian Citizens, who are in front of the TV sets [[GERB's line]] , and those who are at work, yes, but most likely watch or listen in some way! We have a parliament that is different from any previous parliament. He's different because he's six months late. And he was six months late, because the previous leaders were clear to everyone, they were clinging to power and refused to implement one of the main procedures in democracy, early elections. This parliament is different because there are also representatives of the people who protested for a year. There are MPs on the right side of the hall, a huge part of them, who were on the yellow pavements to protest and on the left, who ate a police beating. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] That's a fact, I know them by name. [[GERB lines.]] There is no need to lie that this Parliament will hardly pass its full four-year term. It is not clear how much it will make. It will work as much as it needs to, it will become clear very soon. But this puts before him one major task and it is: a change in the Election Code, a mandatory change in the Election Code. There are several simple things that people want and that this Parliament is obliged to do so that every Bulgarian citizen, wherever he is in the world, can actually exercise his right to vote. I will give you examples: we need to remove this limit for sections abroad; we need Bulgarians abroad to be able to vote by post; there must be 100% machine voting; we need to dissolve the CEC and choose a new Central Election Commission; there must be video surveillance in the elections. These are things that this Parliament must do absolutely immediately. [[GERB lines.]] There must be majority elections, but looking at this room and... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Majority elections, colleagues, are made by a majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u11	Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u12	The party that proposes them has no majority. Furthermore, this Parliament must accept the first and most important things that I have just said. Therefore, from the Political Party there is such a people and today we will submit ready amendments to the Election Code, as we will submit and ready amendments to the Law on Political Parties, so that the subsidy can be one lev per vote. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u13	I give the floor to the representative of the Coalition for Bulgaria. Hello, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u14	Hello. Dear Mrs. Zaykova, Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Vice President, Your Excellencies, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, honourable representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable Presidents of the Republic and Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Bulgarian citizens! Today we are not just opening another National Assembly. Today we are launching parliamentary processes that will determine where Bulgaria will be headed in the next ten years or more. We're in an unusual situation. We are in a health, economic and social crisis and we are on the verge of a financial and political crisis. That is why more than ever we are required of reason and responsibility. Not mandate thinking, but state and visionary decisions. For us, the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, the task is perhaps the easiest. We have something to step on, because in the last four years we have been consistent, stable and predictable in the policy we are leading. At this point, I'd draw it in five directions. First, for Bulgaria. Secondly, the health, economic and social crisis. Third, for parliamentaryism. Fourth, for the government and executive power. Fifth, for power and backstage. So, first of all, for Bulgaria. For us, membership in the European Union is an indispensable and fundamental priority, but it also gives us opportunities. At the moment, the most important option is the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. It is an opportunity for the development of a high-tech economy, for jobs, for overcoming income and regional inequalities and reducing poverty. For the development of health, education and culture. Borisov's government failed in this most important task for Bulgaria's development in the next ten years. The deadline for handing over the Plan is April 30th, and although it is not excessive, urgent mobilisation of expertise, scientific and political potential is required in order to cope. Here for BSP is easy. We are consistent and stable, as I said, in our policies. Two months ago, we wanted the Plan to be reviewed and adopted by the National Assembly, the government refused. And then, and now we are ready with clear and concrete proposals on it. Here they are at the negotiating table for the future of Bulgaria. [[Shows folder.]] Second priority for the health, economic and social crisis. It's not hard for us here either. For more than a year, we have been making our alternative proposals with a Health Crisis Management Plan and concrete measures to support the economy, households and care for people. They're ready. And we are bringing this package of laws to the National Assembly today. [[shows folder]] which concern aid to small and medium-sized businesses, emergency solutions for extending credit vacations, tax vacations, aid to the economy and job openings. Aid to households and young families with a special package for children with relief for young families in the crisis, recalculation of pensions, the Old People's Act and so on. Third priority for parliamentaryism. Restoring parliamentaryism for us is a major priority at the moment. GERB and their accompanying parties in the previous mandates put the National Assembly in a subordinate role of one person......................of the Prime Minister, and thus practically overrun the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. This needs to change urgently and here we are ready with solutions: the restoration of the blitzcontrol on prime minister and ministers it was introduced by BSP and repealed by GERB; the suspension of the wicked practice to introduce laws without assessment of impact; revision and annulment of lobbying texts in laws that served private interests; the adoption of sustainable and sustainable legislation, which guarantees predictable business environment and calmness for people. Fourth priority for executive power and government. In order to achieve the first three, we need to make a full revision of the current executive power. To this end, we propose to start with the following: Firstly, the National Assembly should impose a moratorium on the current government, albeit in resignation, until a new one is drawn up, on the conclusion of sales contracts, concessions, appointments and extension of contracts, and boards, and on the management of committees and agencies. There's a lot of this going on right now. Next, the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister will take into account the state's actual financial situation and bring an update to the budget. In the last three months, three or four months, ladies and gentlemen, over five billion have been spent. lv. outside a decision of the National Assembly. There is only 1 billion available in the reserve. 400 BGN, outside of those set out by the law in the Silver Fund, the Fund of Kozloduy and so on. They're in danger of hitting the Silver Fund, where there's 3.3 billion. BGN, as they did in 2010 with the reserve of the Health Insurance Fund, so we are not just establishing these facts, but acting. [[(Reply from the National Representative Tomislav Donchev:]] [[GERB-SDS lines]] We are introducing amendments to the Public Finance Act, which limit the possibility of the Prime Minister, whoever he is, to the resigned person or the future person who will be broadcast to whoever he is, to be limited in the possibility of spending people's money uncontrollably. And here you can step on the BSP's expertise, because, I recall, we have been submitting this law for four years, but it was rejected by the majority. We have referred to the Court of Auditors, we have referred to the Constitutional Court on this matter, we have been alone in opposition in the previous Parliament and we have failed. I believe we will now. In principle, we should put order in the management of the country's finances. We continue with the desire for all corruption schemes and deals, all scandals to be investigated, to be held accountable and to have justice to the guilty. The fifth priority for power and backstage. Dear Bulgarian citizens, this is perhaps the most important question. It is at the heart of all the vices in the government that I have spoken about so far, the country which has been created for decades must be dismantled. This is not going to be easy because it has penetrated deeply into the foundations of our society, it is enshrined in the laws, it has tangled in behind-the-scenes businesses, thefts, institutions to the lowest levels that we face every day in our lives today. Its destruction and enforcement of the rule of law will require joint efforts for all of us as a people. And since we are here representatives of the people elected of his will, I would like, on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, on this issue, to state the following and to be clear: we have fought this parallel state for four years. First, she invited us to be a part of her. Four years of heavy hits followed, but we didn't give up and we didn't give up, we're determined to move on. Today I want to cross any speculation with which different speakers and interpreters flood us from the screens and manipulate public opinion on this subject. First of all, we don't negotiate with the backroom for power and money. We do not make any hidden arrangements with Borisov for government or with DPS for president. We are for open, stable, fair and brave governance to begin the breakdown of the parallel state. [[GERB-SDS line]] but we are also for a competent government to guarantee the prospect of Bulgaria and the well-being of the Bulgarian people. We will not support the GERB-SDS government! We're not going to make a big coalition! If we wanted to, we could have done it four years ago, saved ourselves a lot of trouble and enriched ourselves. We didn't do it then, we don't do it now, and I'm asking for a stop to these speculations. We would support a government proposed by the second force "There is such a people" in policies aimed at breaking down the vicious model of governance and construction for Bulgaria. If they do not propose a government and if and when the third term is served on us, the party will decide what to do. I wish health, wisdom and determination, less emotions and more reason. I am sure that we are all aware of our responsibility at this key moment for Bulgaria. Let's wear it with dignity! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I give the floor to a representative of the Political Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u16	Madam President, Mr President, Vice President, Mr President of the Constitutional Court, Heads of Justice, Presidents and Presidents of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs Ombudsman, Mr President of the CEC, Your Holiness, Heads of Religions in Bulgaria, Your Excellencies, Dear Guests, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! First, I would like to congratulate on behalf of the DPS the bright month of Ramadan to all Muslims and wish for health, peace and prosperity! I would like to express the confidence that true, pure faith can be the basis of peace and through humility, reconciliation, and goodness to lead to prosperity. We believe that religion can be a unite and a peacemaker. We believe that the supporters of this thesis multiply and grow more and more. These are the voices of confessional mankind and mercy fighting for peace and human rights and freedoms, concerned about the future of mankind and the earth. Today is the beginning of the 45th National Assembly. The election is over, now the hard part is coming. We have already said that we rely on the vote of the Bulgarian voters as a clear desire for change. A change to stop hatred, division, opposition, arrogance and aggression. A change to restore political normality through dialogue between political parties. A change to reboot statehood. At the same time, however, Bulgarian citizens did not give a mandate for forming a government of the new three parties in the 45th National Assembly. They have a total of 92 mandates. Some rely on this result as voters' will for new elections. It's okay! We see that we are closer to this perspective and, in this regard, we from the DPS are definitely ready for elections right away. However, from the point of view of the State, this is not the case. Bulgaria is in an unprecedented combination of several crises - Pandemic, economic, social, institutional. If we allow ourselves to add to them politically, we will make a serious mistake. We believe that now is the time to start restoring normality in Bulgarian politics. For years, there has been virtually no normal dialogue between political entities. This has also been carried over to state institutions since 2017. President, executive and parliament do not function according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The dialogue, coordination and control between the authorities have been violated. From this comes the low level of trust of Bulgarian citizens in the institutions and this phenomenon we from DPS define as an institutional crisis which reflects directly on the functioning of the state and democracy. That is why in the past elections our slogan was a reboot of statehood. We believe that although difficult this process of reconstruction of statehood can begin from the 45th National Assembly. With the restoration of dialogue between political entities, the normalization of politics and the return of Bulgarian citizens' trust in political processes will begin. Now is the time to restore power to the Bulgarian Parliament, as the Constitution dictates. The DPS has been calling for four years for the main political forces to work for the country's development. An attempt to establish a cabinet within this Parliament can initiate the process of normalization in politics and prepare a plan for exiting the country from the crises. The DPS would support a government of the three new political forces in the 45th National Assembly with the following priorities: First, a plan for exiting the pandemic crisis COVID-19, including a new accelerated vaccination program, more effective economic and social measures to protect the population and business. Secondly, the preparation and adoption of a recovery and sustainability programme, the recovery and sustainability programme. We believe that the current options of this plan do not meet the interests of the country. Thirdly, to begin talks about adoption by consensus of the country's accelerated economic development programme. Fourth, a worthy membership in Euro-Atlantic structures. Madam President, honourable Members! Elections have shown that a new beginning, a new governance model, a new attitude model, a new approach to solving problems is needed. Parliament is obliged to meet this requirement of the sovereign! In this most colorful parliament, creating conditions for the inability to form ruling party coalitions, voters want the motto to be fulfilled. The only model in which this can happen is by identifying the main priorities faced by the state, the political forces to discuss and reach consensus on the way, means and deadlines for their resolution. This does not imply a two- or three- or five-member party coalition, this implies a much wider agreement, a much more plastic management solution that automatically excludes pure party offices headed by a party leader or another prominent party figure. Thus, we rely on the design of a sovereign materialized in such a composition at the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. We categorically state that we will follow closely the plan of the sovereign and that is why we will not vote for a government of a party or a coalition of parties if it is not clearly documented previously that this power has a clear programme with precise objectives, means and deadlines for their realization. Let us take all possible benefits of this configuration in this National Assembly. It's time for decisive changes! Let's do them, let's ask ourselves together what Bulgaria we want and find the most direct path to the goal. Together is at stake in the election results and is our common bet of success. Success begins with this today to say clearly: "We will not allow democracy and parliamentaryism to continue to be destroyed. " - We call on today to start the reconstruction of democracy and normality in politics. Let's wish everyone good luck to achieve this great goal! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u17	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I give the floor to a representative of the Coalition "Democratic Bulgaria." [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u18	Hello, dear fellow Members, those who have chosen us here, and of course, honourable Madam President, honourable Mr President, Madam Vice President, Mr President of the Constitutional Court, representatives of the judiciary, honourable representatives of the religions, honourable representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, esteemed former Presidents and Presidents of the National Assembly, honored guests! The elections have ended and we are opening a National Assembly, over which the question is whether it will be at all. We find him, and I'm very happy, in his natural building, in his real home. I remember when President Stoyanov took office, he said that parliamentaryism was not made up of lime and bricks, but of agreement. Today there is much talk about consent, about unity, about unity, about togetherness, but it turns out that parliamentaryism consists of both lime and bricks. This building is not just a symbol, it is a materialization of transparent parliamentaryism in Bulgaria, to have open parliamentaryism in Bulgaria, to have a tradition that connects us with the best examples of civic courage, to defend values. This is the place of the Bulgarian Parliament. The fact that we came back from the party home is a very good sign, although what lies ahead is very complicated. I mean, there's a lot of talk about consent, about dialogue, and these are nice things, but don't we forget that there has to be law? Because it was the violation of the law that turned dialogue, consent, the search for bridges into a toxic occupation. Do we realize that today? Do we realize that in the end, the main thing that Bulgarian citizens want is legality, rules, healthy institutions that are in place so that the Bulgarian statehood can be really modern, European, free what the Revivals have bequeathed to us?! That's not just gonna happen when we're talking about the shackles. This requires legality, and we must first put this as a priority for our work. Yes, the task is extremely difficult. In all the speeches so far, we have talked about the issue that is weighing on this National Assembly - will it be at all? It seems that it will be able to do only one of the tasks that the Bulgarian society had placed on him, one part of the change and this is to remove Boyko Borisov, GERB and their eternal partners in power consumption. That's not small! The question is... [[Noise and lines from DPS: "This is not true. "]] You don't agree, we'll argue. The question is what else can be done in this Parliament, and this is the big political issue that stands before us all. Dividing lines are drawn, looking for unifying denominators, but it seems to me that it is really very important that we focus on what we have to do as tasks, because we have to answer the question of whether this Parliament deserves to exist when we know and appreciate what we need to do and what we can do in it. Therefore, allow me to outline the priorities that we believe are in front of the work of the National Assembly, then to say what we have as proposals on these priorities and how we see the way forward. We have divided them into 10 priorities that are united in two groups. One group is linked to immediate crisis situations because they are more than one that follows the global pandemic crisis. First of all, we need to find a way to implement an adequate, decisive programme for mass voluntary immunisation, which will provide the prospect of the country's rapid exit from the cycle of new peaks in the infection and their management, and then we return there again. Secondly, a complex of adequate measures must be applied for the economic support of the individual sectors of businesses, households and for the social protection of citizens. We need to make a real assessment of the economic situation of things. It has already been mentioned that there are disturbing signals about the state of the financial reserve of the country and we need to get a very clear picture in order to decide on how we will sanitize the financial situation of the country, and, of course, the key task that lies ahead of us in the short term is Bulgaria to launch the procedure under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. I'd like to address my colleagues from my leaving government. I believe the refusal to submit the plan drawn up with all its shortcomings is sabotage. I believe this on the basis of an act that we made a year ago, we turned to all political formations represented in the European Parliament with an invitation to work together on the Recovery Plan. We wanted this to happen not in the administration's offices, but to happen in a transparent way in which all interested parties would participate from the very beginning. We were not then heard, our hand, which was extended then for cooperation, was passed by with the usual arrogant contempt. Now you're sulking and you're saying we're not bringing this plan in. In fact, you're trying to cover up your failure. Well, bring it in and let's see how we react.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u19	Did you read it? What are these criteria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u20	I've read it, dear Mr. Tomislav Donchev, I've read it. Bring it in, but because you're afraid he'll come across a lot of criticism from the European Commission and you're actually hiding from it. Bring it in! We will finally have time and opportunity for this dialogue, since in the entire campaign you have been running away from a debate, we will finally have an opportunity for that, right? The second group of priorities that stand are related to the deep crisis of statehood in which Bulgaria is located. Yes, the protest and this election campaign were focused on this particular government, on the specific persons who perform the position of the Chief Prosecutor and other high positions in the judiciary, but we have always argued that the problems of the Bulgarian statehood, the crisis of Bulgarian democracy does not begin with this government and with these holders of certain positions. It's about much deeper systemic grounds. These systematic grounds have their genesis deep in the communist regime, in the unfinished decommunization, in the unfinished lustration, and Bulgaria has never been completely removed from its role as a satellite of the Soviet Union. And yes, the management of Boyko Borisov is probably by far the ugliest manifestation of these systemic problems, set in the foundation of Bulgarian democracy. Yes, corruption, the embezzlement of power, the exercise of it as a personal father, the negotiation with informal circles, with Saraya is the ugliest manifestation of this system problem. But this systemic problem has its deep institutional causes and if we want to treat Bulgaria, we must start by removing this government from power, but we must continue with decisive reforms. Therefore, from this point of view, for us, the priorities in this regard are as follows: First of all, restoring the role of the National Assembly as a representative of the people's sovereignty. Secondly, reform of the electoral process. Thirdly, a deep reform of justice and, in particular, of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Prosecutor's Office. Fourth, clearing and returning to the limits of the legality of the executive power, including the system of regulators, and the state administration, strengthening the sovereignty and security of our state by clearing the services, defending Bulgaria's energy sovereignty and strengthening our belonging to NATO and the European Union. In sixth place, overcoming the factors that limit the freedom of the media in Bulgaria. And because we want to be specific, we want to say some of the things that we have already taken as action on these priorities. We have developed and collected signatures for amendments to the Constitution, which they set for their purpose, first of all, to place the Attorney General under clear democratic accountability by Parliament. There can no longer be a centre of power in the Republic that is not subject to democratic accountability. This situation must be terminated! The last time I spoke from this tribune, I resigned and said: In Bulgaria, a prosecutor's republic is established, a prosecutor's republic, which creates power from the uncontrollable opportunity for the Attorney General to decide on whom to press charges, whom to call to responsibility, and who not, who to give real immunity from prosecution, who to be put under pressure, and here are people who have passed through this strain, who to be given absolute freedom from any liability before the law, even when shocking recordings, photos come into public space, but this is not really being investigated. With these constitutional changes, we aim to terminate Ivan Geshev's mandate early. I don't see him here. But yes, we will work to remove him from the position of Attorney General. The Supreme Judicial Council will then be finally reformed so that it becomes what its name is called, namely a Council of Justice, in which the elected judges have a majority, a small parliamentary quota, by which society will have participation in the chamber and administrative processes in the judiciary. [[Noise and lines.]] Further, we believe that a direct constitutional complaint must be introduced. The goods of constitutional rights cannot be separated with a high barrier from the possibility of every Bulgarian citizen wanting to realize them. And it is not possible for the considerations of the administrative capacity and resource of the Constitutional Court to be opposed to such an objective. We also create a constitutional basis for the necessary lustration in Bulgaria. Lustration, which is evident that most political forces are not ready to do even within their own lists. Lustration, which should not stop at all only to those who were involved in the activity of the totalitarian regime and its repressive authorities, but must also cover people who are currently active in the services and in various political and public institutions. So let's clean up that slag from the criminal transition that accumulated in the 1990s and beyond. Let's go. We have submitted a package of amendments today to the Ministry of Justice, the Law on the Judiciary and the Code of Criminal Procedure, with which specialized courts and the Specialized Prosecutor's Office are closed between other proposals. [[Applause from DB, ICN and ISV.]] Those institutions, which were created under the heading "For a decisive fight against corruption" have become the embodiment of selective, I would not say justice, of the selective application of state repression for one and another's closing eyes again. They are irrevocably tarnished. No, our proposal does not imply that persons who are currently attracted to responsibility by these institutions will be granted immunity. They will simply be responsible for what they have done by law, before the conventional authorities of Bulgarian justice, just as any other citizen, and they will bear responsibility if there is anything for, as far as we are able to create a really reformed prosecution, a corruption-free court, and that depends on all of us. We will table amendments that will liquidate KPCONPI in its current model because it has also become a shameful bat. And yes, this will result in the dismissal of Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov. Further, we are tabling a package of amendments to the Election Code on the basis of the long-term efforts of the Bulgarian Democratic Republic for a series of decisions to make the election process more transparent, more accessible to the participation of all the children of Bulgaria who want to participate in the decision of the Bulgarian destiny and who will ultimately benefit the Bulgarian electoral process to produce more trust than even we today, on the first day of this Parliament can actually have. In these amendments, we foresee, of course, video surveillance, of course, introduction of a remote vote, creation of an area of foreign affairs, removal of unnecessary restrictions for sections abroad and so on. Further on, we have a proposal relating to the electronic governance and reform of the administration, and so on. A few words about the political perspective. We will assess the suitability of this Parliament to produce action in terms of the support it has for these priorities. Of course, we are ready to support proposals with regard to these priorities and other Members. The elections were held and gave, so to speak, a sign that Bulgarian citizens want change. "Democratic Bulgaria" appeared in these elections with a request to receive a mandate for government by the citizens. We did it because we have an ambitious programme because we have an expert capacity and because we have a political formation that can bear the political responsibility and the burden of governance. The voters, however, decided otherwise. And we respect that vote and understand its reasons. The majority of voters who asked for a change have chosen to assign the realization of this change to "There is such a people" that are second. From this point of view, we believe that it is legitimate, if we are asked for our support, to enter with respect and constructiveism into a discussion about what management could be broadcast with the mandate of the. Of course, it's not about blanquet support, of course, it's about talking about politics. But we think it's the move that gives some kind of opportunity to broadcast control here. Of course, we will stick to the commitments we have made, and I must say clearly: in no way would we support the management of GERB-SDS and their cabinet. If such a people do not manage to broadcast or do not want to broadcast a cabinet with their mandate, we are ready to discuss other actions that will provide sufficient time for this Parliament to take the most necessary action before it comes to elections. We're not afraid of early elections. We believe that this is a normal part of the democratic process, and there is nothing dramatic and nothing scary about it. However, we believe that we should try to work on those priorities that I have just outlined. I would like to wish you every success and wish that we could still succeed in this Parliament bearing fruit, because this is the most important and because Bulgaria can do so much more. Thank you. [[Loud applause from DB, ICN, ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the representative of the Coalition. Goons, out! [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u22	Madam President, Mr President, Madam Vice President, Your excellences, Mr President of the Constitutional Court, honourable representatives of religious religions, Mrs Ombudsman, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable Presidents, Presidents, Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I stand before you at the will of thousands of Bulgarian citizens to confirm from this tribune one of the objectives with which the people of the squares sent us here [[Applause and applause from ISV.]] The first step to fulfilling this goal is to remove the goons from the country's governance. This applies not only to the chief goons, but also to those who served them for a long time and benefited from it. There shouldn't be a coalition with them! You cannot be forbidden to declare support for a government broadcast by parties of the protest. But don't think you're gonna suffocate him in a toxic hug! Do not imagine that you will be released from your responsibility! Let it also be known that, when we are talking about government, we are talking about not only a new parliament, a new government, but also what the people of the squares have asked us for a new chief prosecutor and new regulators. The second step is the demand for responsibility, a complete revision of corrupt governance. [[Applause from ICN, ISV, DB.]] Today we are submitting a draft decision on the establishment of a Committee on Revision. We're gonna show people all the dirty secrets and abuse of power and give them to justice because that's what justice requires. The third step is to change the rules so that no longer in the future is possible. We owe it to the voters, and we owe it to future generations. The rules for holding elections are a key issue of good governance. We'll change them immediately so we're ready for early elections. We will introduce a full machine vote, a remote electronic vote for Bulgarians abroad. We'll introduce a constituency for our countrymen abroad. We'll clear the voter lists through active registration. We will replace the compositions of the electoral committees, which are jointly responsible for election manipulations. We will demand a change in the composition of the Council for Electronic Media and the management of the National Television, which with actions and omissions allowed manipulation of public opinion during the election campaign. We are the platform of the active citizens. This is the platform of the active citizens. We're here to protect the people of labor to protect the entrepreneurs to protect the people of free employment. We are here to protect people who work tirelessly from dawn until late evening to ensure the welfare of their families. These people want less bureaucracy, more freedom. These people want an opportunity to take their destiny into their own hands. These people want an independent court to protect them from arbitrary acts of abuse, including from state officials and municipal officials. We are ready to offer a comprehensive concept of combating corruption, which covers not only the administration and redistribution of goods, but also education, culture, media, justice. This is key to stimulating entrepreneurship and attracting foreign investment. We are the platform for which solidarity is not a slogan, but a conscious manifestation of humanism. During the reign of GERB Bulgaria became not only the poorest and most corrupt [[Noise and lines from GERB: "E, come on. "]] And the most corrupt side. Bulgaria became the country in the European Union, which has no middle class, in which the gap between the incomes of the handful of wealthy and the huge group of the population, which barely connects the two ends. We will propose concrete support measures for immediate support to the most vulnerable groups of the Bulgarian population. Measures to increase incomes to increase pensions, but also measures to ensure better access to quality health care and quality education. [[Noise and lines.]] Today, we are going to amend the Personal Aid Act. We will demand that the texts in this law be restored because the objective is worthy of support for people with disabilities. They deserved it, they won it with months of protests. We will protect the citizens from the strong of the day. First thing tomorrow, we're bringing in the Collectors Act and the Private Failure Act. We are a platform for which membership in the European Union is a valuable choice. For us, deepening integration with European and Atlantic structures is a matter of patriotism and a question of protecting our national interest. It is time for Bulgaria to stop being reduced and to stand up for equal partnership with the other countries of the European family. We will demand the immediate publication of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. We will insist and have already submitted a request for a hearing of Prime Minister Borisov for the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. We will insist that it be discussed by the Bulgarian Parliament and submitted to the European institutions in a timely manner. The crashing reign of the crown crisis has made us the first more deadly. Because of the poor management of the health crisis, we have lost many lives that could have been saved. We're the last ones on vaccination. The small and medium business has no support from the Bulgarian state. This can't wait a day. We're going to propose a new vaccination plan, which will make it a priority for the adults and the sick. We will demand expert management of the health crisis. We will propose, as early as tomorrow, changes to the Emergency Act, direct financial support for the companies affected by the crisis, self-insuring persons, households and pensioners. The public administration needs to be told and she needs to hear it that there will be no witch hunt. Honorable professionals should only be able to develop on the basis of their qualities. The party ladybugs take them with you. Ladies and gentlemen, from today Bulgaria is already different. Whether there will be a new government or there will be a new election and a new one, we are ready. Bulgaria stood up and showed the door to the goons. The change is irreversible because it is in people's souls and it is not influenced by any procedures. Today, we start with a very important step, we return the dignity of the National Assembly. We're returning parliament to his historic home. The healthy blood bodies of parliamentaryism, journalists and freedom of speech, will now be able to move freely in the building of the National Assembly. Never in all history has any party leader allowed himself to make the National Assembly a laughing stock, as the leader of the ruling party GERB has allowed himself in recent years. Of course, it is expected and evident that he is absent again. Borisov is not even here when he resigns his government. Where is your leader, ladies and gentlemen of GERB-SDS?! Why is he hiding? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is the most important institution of Bulgaria. Without proper functioning of parliament, there is no democracy. Without democracy, there is no freedom and no future. Here must be the temple of truth, the temple of speech, the temple of law. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Here it must be and it will be, and it will be, because all of this is the people. Long live the people of Bulgaria! [[Applause from ISV and ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u23	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I appeal to colleagues from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ, I could not understand your indignation against what Mrs. Manolova said that we are the poorest. Isn't Bulgaria the only country with a minimum wage of 400 euros?! [[Noisy applause from ISV and ICN.]] Don't we have eight whole and one difference between rich and poor? Let's tell each other the truth. [[Shouts and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Before we go any further, I'm calling a 20-minute recess. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, before we go any further, I would like to inform you of the quorum. Registered in the hall.. 234 Members of parliament, registered remotely. Five, total.. 239. As far as I know, one of the MPs was in the hospital and couldn't register. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to the election of the President of the National Assembly according to art. 76 of para. 3 of the Constitution, because I am human, and I must rest. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to our business part of the meeting where, as you have understood, we must elect a President. But before that, there was a proposal for a decision to adopt the rules of procedure for the election of the President of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. Please have a representative of the importers read the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u25	Project! DECISION adopting the Rules of Procedure for the Election of the President of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure for the election of the President of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly as follows: 1. Candidates for President of the National Assembly may be offered by the parties and coalitions represented in the National Assembly registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the elections on 4 April 2021 and by MPs. 2. The vote is clearly by raising hands, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise and alphabetically on the proposed applications. 3. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs has been elected. If, in the first vote, none of the candidates receives the necessary majority, a second vote shall be cast in which the two candidates who have received the most votes. The candidate who received more votes has been selected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u26	Thank you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Honourable Members, on behalf of GERB-SDS, we will make a change in the way of voting as is actually proposed to our attention the draft decision. Our change consists of the following "in the form of the vote." Therefore, we propose that, at point two, the vote should be taken instead of clearly by raising its hand on the basis of art. 66, para. 2, p. 3 and to be more precise, I will read it: "Vote to get up from place when calling in alphabetical order and replying with................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I'm going to argue our proposal. That day, when we had a contact group with the other political parliamentary groups, this point remained to be resolved today. I expressed our opinion that, especially when it comes to the election of the President of the National Assembly and its leadership, is one of the most prominent votes in each next National Assembly, where it is determined who is opposition and who is ruling. We believe that the way in which this procedure is currently being carried out in the Draft Decision will not ensure that people know who has supported what. Here it will also become clear how true are the words, which a short time ago from the statement of the groups were understood that they would fight for new morality, for a new ethics to become clear, in fact, their desire for power and nothing more. Because it was just mentioned that GERB last term had proposed to the second largest party to head parliament precisely as a sign of goodwill. As a sign that parliamentaryism is above all else, in the end we must, however much we do not like each other, respect each other and still have a sufficiently good parliamentary tradition that has been respected over the years, but at this stage the past years have not been respected. This started from 2013, when GERB-SDS was the first political force and then we were unable to broadcast the President of the National Assembly precisely for this reason, because some colleagues decided that this tradition should not be respected. And that is why we want... and I made the procedural proposal, precisely by voting... clearly, by raising hands and by calling to know who is defined today as opposition and who is defined as governors. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u28	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u29	Allow me to make a back-up procedural proposal on several, in my opinion, the obvious argument is always about a clear vote. A clear vote by hand, by getting up from place and naming the name is always a clear vote that allows you to see what you need to see, how you vote. Whether we see him in five minutes, or 15 minutes, that's the question. If you want, I can predict in advance that GERB's candidate for Chairman of the Assembly will receive as many votes as GERB's votes. And there is no need for this work to continue the sitting, in not very comfortable conditions, for 15 minutes. Therefore, since you do not propose a secret vote for example or anything else, I am making a reverse procedural proposal to stick to the draft decision. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u30	You have the floor, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u31	Madam President, honourable Members! This is the first session of parliament, and the way we want to see the new majority forming in this Forty-Fifth National Assembly is this -- when we all vote together, we don't have a system that takes into account how the different groups voted, and people know what the majority is. Because the majority in a single parliament elects the President of Parliament. So our proposal is not self-inflicted at all. It does not aim to extend the meeting, but aims to have clarity on what is the new parliamentary majority and who enters it. That's our request. And I think it's absolutely right for you to support him, since you're all here declaring yourself transparent. That's transparency. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u32	Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u33	I am making a real statement in the manner in which the sitting is held. The statement of colleague Bikov had nothing to do with the way the meeting was conducted.. it was a kind of duplicate of the procedural backdrop. We do not need to pretend to be such procedural items in the solemn meeting at the opening of parliament and to test ourselves under a retail procedure. There will be another way to conduct, another majority, and there will be no one to allow you from the platform of parliament, calling it a procedure to conduct the meeting, to talk to each other everything. [[GERB-SDS lines]] It is clear what the majority will be, which will dictate the parliament it will be a majority of change! Let's not waste time on technical moves! It's called the Chess Language. It's called the Chess Language. [[Applause from ISV.]] It's all clear, Mr. Bikov. Let's not waste time! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, however, there is a proposal from GERB and I suggest that we vote on it for change. We are currently voting for GERB's proposal. Please, whoever is for GERB's proposal, raise your hand. The Quaestors! Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'd like the Quaestors to give me the score. Ladies and gentlemen, a total of 239 people voted in this room and two people...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u35	What's 239?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u36	I'm sorry. 229 people voted in the Chamber and two people voted remotely. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Of these 229 people, 74, 155 are against it. The two voted in a remote vote by Andrey Mihailov and Galya Burdarska are also opposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u37	We didn't hear them! Todor Todorov didn't vote! [[Strong noise from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u38	Please, colleagues, give your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u39	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u40	Against the proposal of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u41	I am also opposed to this proposal by GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u42	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u43	You're in. [[Happy tidings.]] Three people have voted remotely already. Two are against Andrei Mihailov and Galya Burdarska, and Mr. Todor Todorov is in favour. In total, we have 232 voters, 74 of whom are for [[(a line from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva:]] And the rest are against it. GERB's proposal is not accepted. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] When you speak out loud, I can't answer you. We continue to vote on the proposed solution in the text proposed by the importers. Anyone in favour, please vote. Anyone who opposes, please vote. Are there any abstentions? Members of the platform, what is your vote on the decision in the original proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u44	I vote for the original proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u45	I'm voting for it, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u46	Is there another colleague who can vote there? ▪ No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Two people on the platform voted for the proposal of importers in the original form.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u47	Announce the result!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u48	Let them bring me the results and I'll announce them. Of those who voted in this House, 160 people are against it and 74 are against it. Adding those remote voting for, that's 162 for, uh, against 74. The decision's been made. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u49	Madam Chairman, honourable Members! You did not accept our proposal, which was, of course, expected, but you can't help but show the result that you quoted just now, how it was distributed in groups. This is explicitly mentioned in the existing Rules of Procedure and, where requested, it must be announced how the groups voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u50	He hasn't been accepted yet! [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u51	One moment, ladies and gentlemen! Now I'm going to read you the distribution by group: GERB 74 voted against the original proposal. [[(GERB-SDS lines:]] There are 48 people who voted for the original proposal. Get up! Get up! 14 people voted for the original proposal. From "Democratic Bulgaria." 27 people voted for the original proposal. From the BSP for Bulgaria and 42 people voted for the original proposal. Out of a movement for rights and freedoms, 29 people voted for the original proposal. There is no one outside the GERB-SDS parliamentary group who has voted against the original proposal. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor now. As you know, any MP and any parliamentary group may propose a President of the National Assembly. That is why, according to the decision already adopted, you have the floor for proposals. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Group GERB-SDS "Our proposal for President of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly is Mrs. Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva. [[Extreme applause by GERB-SDS. Thumping at DPS banks. Screams: "Whoo!" by ISN, ISV and DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u53	Thank you. Can you say a few words?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u54	Of course, when you put order in the room. [[Happy tidings.]] Ms. Karayancheva has graduated from the Technical University in Sofia, has a postgraduate qualification from New Bulgarian University. She was elected MP in the 41st, 42nd, 43rd, 44th and 45th National Assembly of the Ninth Multiannual Election Region. She was Vice-President and Chairman of the 44th National Assembly. As Chairman she represented the Bulgarian Parliament in a number of international forums at the highest level. Ms. Karayancheva was also Vice-President of GERB-SDS parliamentary group. He's a MP with years of experience. She was a member of the parliamentary committees on agriculture, economic policy, public works and local self-government. Ms. Karayancheva's political biography is public. She's the man who changed the status quo in a party monolithic region like Kardzhali. [[(Reply from the MP Mustafa Karadayi: Shame on you! Disgrace!]] Ms. Karayancheva is familiar with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and has worked with...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u55	Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u56	...the administration of all the authorities in the country and representatives of a number of Bulgarian and foreign NGOs. Dear colleagues, you know that long-standing parliamentary practice is the largest number of political forces represented in the National Assembly to broadcast a chairman. It was already broken once in 2013 and that parliament was short-term. I ask, however, that we put aside our political bias and follow the parliamentary tradition. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]] That's our offer. It's your call. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u57	Colleagues, I'm asking you to respect each other. Are there any other suggestions? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u58	Dear MPs, I hope you will make a good comparison with what I will read and what you have just heard about the lovely Kardzhali representative, with respect. [[Laughter and applause from the IHN group]] On behalf of the "There is such a people" we propose as President of the National Assembly Iva Miteva-Rupcheva. Now, Iva Miteva-Rupcheva's biography to compare it anyway. Eva Miteva was born in Razgrad. She has graduated from the Sofia University University University of Sofia (St. Kliment Ohridski) in 1996. She was awarded with the right to protection as a PhD student in the Doctoral Program of the Republic of Bulgaria (Constitutional Law of the Republic of Bulgaria) at the Institute of State and Law at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Her professional internship began in 1998 at the Ministry of Justice. Since 2000, she has been appointed to the National Assembly and has passed through all steps in the parliamentary administration by a state expert to the Director of the Directorate of Employment and Law of the European Union. She was a member of the expert teams for preparation of proposals and discussion of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Since 2007, he has been actively involved in drafting amendments to electoral laws as a member of expert teams to develop a draft electoral code and adopt a new electoral code. In 2017, 2018, 2019 he lectured on practical normity in the Program for postgraduate qualification of the Institute for Public Administration and Sofia University, Honored Lecturer at New Bulgarian University, Department of Law, Course. Make up your own mind! Thank you. [[World applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u59	Are there any other suggestions? If there isn't, in accordance with the rules that have just been adopted, we will vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u60	There are speeches! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u61	...in alphabetical order of first name...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u62	No, there are speeches. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u63	...we will vote alphabetically in the first name proposed as President of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines: "There must be speeches! "]] What if there's someone to talk to? Here you go. Sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u64	It's okay. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to appeal to all of you the parliamentaryism and the function of the representation of the President of Parliament not to serve as a shameful fig leaf, covering the horrors of GERB and the management of Borisov once. [[Noise and shouts from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] Next, I would like to ask all of you, this titanic intelligence, a great geographical finder, to restore Kardzhali's pride, the specific production of certain galvanized products where it belongs. [[(Noise, loud cheers by GERB-SDS:]] Thank you. Thank you. You're very kind. Next, our group supports the proposal made by "There is such a people." Thank you, everyone. Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u65	Are there any other speeches, gentlemen and ladies?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u66	It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u67	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u68	Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u69	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Very please, I would rather appeal to you not to allow from this place where I work five mandates, qualifications of the kind of mute, because this is quite unpleasant for these 200 people in this room. [[Applauds the provisional President]] A decent man points to who the face is. Where's the face?! I wonder why you are called all the nickname sister Galeva?! [[Noise and lines by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] And you're yelling for goons in the hall?! I'm not a mug. You can check on me all you want. They've already done it a whole bunch of ministers. Why are you insulting these people? Who's the mug of them? Point her out? Give it to me, we'll lynch it together! How can you allow this to be said to Bulgarian MPs and newly elected and old?! [[Applauds the provisional President]] Secondly, I must tell you, Madam President, [[Applauds the provisional President]] You're asking where the ministers are? Here they are in front of you. All you have to do is see them! [[Replys: the Prime Minister?]] I'm not responsible for the Prime Minister, nobody authorized me. You will ask yourself the Prime Minister, and if there is an answer, they will answer. But to call the people in this room 200 people, it doesn't matter if it's you, it's you, it's not fair! If there's a face here, point it out, we'll lynch it together. On what grounds? [[Noise and lines.]] You'll ask, you'll tell me in private! I beg you very much, no qualifications! The final qualification for Kardzhali... I'm from Kardjali. Kardzhali is a very nice town. [[Noise and lines.]] It's a beautiful town! And qualifications against a lady is just vulgar! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u70	Well, tell it to someone else!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u71	Say what? [[Applause. Replies from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u72	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u73	Well, that's what I'm saying, I don't blame you. If you feel recognized, that's different, but I didn't say you were...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, please refrain! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u75	Did you ask me something or are you waiting for an answer? I can answer that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u76	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u77	Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we have all, at the beginning, declared ourselves order and rules. In order for parliament to function properly and to work in the spirit of parliamentaryism, I believe that we should all respect parliamentary behaviour. And although, Madam President, we have not yet adopted the rules on the work of the National Assembly, I ask you to remind all Members, even the newcomers, that there has always been a special section on parliamentary conduct in Parliament. And what happened just now at least deserves not only the withdrawal of the word of the talking ugly qualifications against a colleague, no matter which multi-mandated region they chose it from, but you should have made either a remark, or a reminder, or a reprimand! Please, Madam President, follow not only the provisions but also the spirit of parliamentaryism! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you very much to refrain! Let us not exchange insults and become a market before the eyes of all Bulgarian people who are watching us now! I apologize for the expression. Come on, let's hold back from now on! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to elect a new chairman. As you know... Yeah? [[Replyes: "Speeches, Statements! "]] As you've already accepted the rules... Are there any speeches? I don't see any desire to make a statement. May I continue? And, as you have already adopted the rules, we will elect a chairman in alphabetical order in the first name. First, we'll vote for Mrs. Eva Miteva. Anyone in favour, please vote. The Quaestors!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u80	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u81	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u83	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u84	Are there any more people willing to vote on the platform? No. Anyone opposed to Mrs. Iva Miteva being President of Parliament, please vote. Who's against it? Are you all for it? [[Loud laughter and applause.]] Are there any abstentions? Thank you. To now announce the results of the vote for Mrs. Iva Miteva: For 160, there is no abstention 74 in the Chamber. And from colleagues who voted remotely: Galya Burdarska is in favour, Andrei Mihailov is in favour, Todor Todorov has abstained, and Halil Letifov is in favour. Now I will announce the votes in groups: GERB A total of 160 plus 3 is 163 for, and 75 abstentions. There is a vote for Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. Anyone in favour, please vote. The Quaestors! Is there any on the platform?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u86	Anyone who opposes, please vote. Is the platform against it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u87	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u88	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u89	Halil Letifov? He's gone. Are there any abstentions, excuse me? As far as I can see, there isn't. I announce the results for Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva's choice. About 74 in the hall and 1 on the platform, you heard it... Mr. Todor Todorov, or 75. There are 160 against in the hall, and 2 against the platform Galya Burdarska and Andrei Mihaylov, or 162. Ladies and gentlemen, from the selection we have 163 votes for Mrs. Iva Miteva and 75 for Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. Mrs. Eva Miteva has been chosen. [[World applause from IHN.]] Mrs. Miteva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u90	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! With great excitement, I stand before you on this stand for the trust you have given me. I realize the responsibility and expectations of all of us to find the most true direction to respond to the challenges of today's complicated reality. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I congratulate each and every one of you with his election as a member of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. I am convinced that we will work with dignity for the authority of this Parliament. I hope to add to the experience and knowledge of proven parliamentarians to the youth and energy, the innovative spirit of newly elected colleagues. On 4 April, more than half of the Bulgarian voters fulfilled their public debt, I apologize, I am very worried, and gave their vote to the National Assembly. [[Applause]] To us and our work are the expectations of voters for the implementation of the election programs for clear, predictable and stable legislation, a case not of capriciousness of the minute, but a fruit of sound reflection and comprehensive consideration, as Todor Ikonomov said. I believe that the rights of the individual and its dignity, raised in a supreme principle in the preamble to the Constitution, will be respected in this National Assembly and we will not forget that it is up to Bulgaria to be a democratic, rule of law and social state. [[Applause.]] Transparency and accountability must be guiding principles in the work of this National Assembly, the constitutional norms relating to parliamentary control, the hearing of the judicial authorities and the bodies which are elected in whole or in part by the National Assembly are filled with content. Dear colleagues! Let us make efforts to dialogue with each other to look for good solutions, for a high parliamentary culture, so that we can be worthy representatives of the people. Once again, I salute you all! Thank you. [[World and long applause. Interim President Mika Zaykova congratulates President Iva Miteva and gives up the chair.]] We continue with the next point: Draft decision to adopt procedural rules for the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u91	Project! DECISION adopting the Rules of Procedure for the Election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-Fifth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly as follows: 1. The National Assembly elects six Vice-Presidents on one of each of the parties and coalitions represented in the National Assembly registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the elections on 4 April 2021. 2. Each party represented in the National Assembly and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for Self-Participation in the elections on 4 April proposed its candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly. 3. The vote is clearly by raising hands, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise, entirely for all candidates. 4. The proposed candidates for Vice-Presidents were elected when they received more than half of the votes from the present Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u92	I'm opening the debate. Are there any wishes to make a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u93	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u94	I won't. I declare the debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. Please, which is for the so-read draft decision to vote. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u95	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u96	Andrey Mihailov for. Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u98	Yeah. Vote 234 MPs: for 234. The decision's been made. I ask for proposals on behalf of political parties and coalitions in parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u99	For vice-presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u100	Yeah, for vice-presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u101	Madam President, I congratulate you on your choice and wish you success on behalf of our parliamentary group. Around your choice is formed an impressive parliamentary majority, in which there are such people, BSP, DPS, Democratic Bulgaria. Goons, out! [[Laughter and lines.]] Unfortunately, Mr. Stanislav Trifonov failed to support you because he apparently ran away from work on his first day here. That's not good, because you're ultimately his candidate. We propose as Vice-President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. Thank you. [[Noise, cheer and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u102	On behalf of the "There is such a people."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u103	If you'll just let me address Mr. Bikoff first, Mr. Trifonov has not escaped from work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u104	There's no one there, and he's pointing out the screen on the Internet's video conference platform.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u105	Ladies and gentlemen of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly! On behalf of the "There is such a people" I propose as Vice-President of the National Assembly Victoria Dimitrova Vasileva. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u106	From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u107	Madam President, allow me, in turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, to congratulate you on choosing to be President of the National Assembly, to wish you much health, many successes, to follow the Rules of the National Assembly and, as rarely as possible, to take away the floor of the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u108	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u109	Honourable MPs, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, I am proposing as Vice-President of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly "Kristian Ivanov Vigenin." Kristian Ivanov Vigenin was born on 12 June 1975. He graduated from the University of National and World Economy, specialties in International Relations. He is a member of the European Parliament in the period 2007 - 2013, Minister of Foreign Affairs 2013 - 2014, Member of Parliament in the 40th, 43th and 44th National Assembly. In the period 2017 - 2019 he was President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and since 2019 he has been elected Vice-President of the National Assembly. A family man with two sons. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u110	On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u111	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u112	Oh, I'm so sorry. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, on the first day, mistakes are allowed. Please accept our sincere congratulations. I have the honour to propose on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to Vice-President of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly Mrs. Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant, PhD in the History of Philosophy, Deputy Minister of Education in two Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria. I'm sure you'll have solid support upstairs from Mrs. Nalbant. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u114	Thank you. On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u115	Take also on behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria", Madam President, our congratulations and wishes to work well and really give a worthy person to the Bulgarian Parliament in this composition. I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria to propose as Vice-President of the National Assembly Atanas Atanasov. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm not going to present him in detail... a democrat, a lawyer, a lawyer, a parliamentary, a democracy fighter. And I'm sure in his face you'll have good help. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u116	On behalf of the Coalition, stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u117	Congratulations, Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. A brilliant choice has been made today by the Bulgarian Parliament. We are convinced of that all who know you and have followed your work. On behalf of our parliamentary group, we propose Mrs. Tatiana Doncheva as Vice-President of the National Assembly. If we want to restore the authority of the National Assembly, then there is a need for such personalities - brilliant, strong, brave, educated, literate. Our proposal is for Mrs. Doncheva. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u118	Thank you. We are going to vote on the proposed applications in full. Please, whoever's for, vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u120	Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u122	Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. Please announce the result. 234 MPs support the applications. I ask the Vice-Presidents to take their seats. [[Applause.]] We are continuing with the next draft decision.. The draft decision for the temporary implementation of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u123	Project! DECISION on the implementation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The forty-fiveth National Assembly shall carry out its work under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly until the adoption of its Rules, unless it decides otherwise. 2. In case of technical failure to apply art. 52, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, registration shall be carried out by roll-call reading of the names. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u124	Thank you. I declare the debates open. Are there any speeches on the proposal for a draft decision so submitted? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I ask whoever is for this draft decision to vote. Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. I'm asking for the result. 233 Members of Parliament have voted for this draft decision. The draft decision has been adopted. We are continuing with the next draft decision for the election of secretaries at the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. It's a draft decision. Please have one of the importers present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u125	Project! DECISION for the election of Secretaries of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He elected 12 secretaries of the National Assembly by two of the parties and coalitions represented in the National Assembly, registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the elections on 4 April 2021. 2. The vote is clearly.. by raising hands, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise, and in full for all candidates. 3. He elects as Secretaries of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly:...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u126	Thank you. I'm opening the debate on this draft decision. Is there anyone who would like to speak? I won't. We're closing the debate. I ask whoever is for this draft decision to vote. Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u128	Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. 233 MPs have supported the draft decision. The decision's been made. I ask for nominations on behalf of any political party or coalition. On behalf of the Political Party GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u129	Madam President, and I would like to congratulate you on the position you hold, which indeed bears a very serious responsibility on your shoulders, and I wish you, of course, success. On behalf of the Parliamentary Secretariat Group of the National Assembly, I propose Manoil Manev and Hristo Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u130	Thank you. On behalf of the "There is such a people"?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u131	On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group I propose such a people for parliamentary secretaries Kiril Sashev Simeonov and Petar Hristov Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u132	Thank you. On behalf of the BSP?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u133	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and I propose Philip Stefanov Popov and Stoyan Mihaylov Mirchev as Secretaries of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u134	Thank you. On behalf of the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u135	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose Maston Osmanov Mastonov and Sezgin Yuseiin Mehmed as Secretaries of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u136	Thank you. On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u137	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" I propose Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov and Ivan Georgiev Velov as Secretaries of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u138	Thank you. And on behalf of Stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u139	On behalf of Stand up! We offer Stanislav Kolev and Minko Angelov for parliamentary secretaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u140	Thank you. Please vote in full on the proposed applications. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u142	Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u144	Thank you. Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. 234 MPs support the applications. Thank you. We move on to the next draft decision for the election of the Temporary Commission for the preparation of a draft Rules for the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly and for amendments to the provisional Rules of the National Assembly. I'd like one of the importers to present the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u145	Project! DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of a draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly and for amendments to the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Set up a temporary committee with the following subject-matter: 1.1. Preparation of a draft Rules for the Organization and Activity of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. 1.2. Examination and discussion of proposals submitted by the Members of the National Assembly for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which case § 1 of the Additional Rules of Procedure shall not apply. 2. The time limit for written proposals referred to in point 1.2. by the Members of the National Assembly for amendment and addition to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be four days until 19 April 2021 inclusive. The Commission shall examine and discuss the proposals, draw up and submit the report concerned. 3. The Commission shall be composed of 18 MPs elected on a parietal principle by three of each of the parties and coalitions represented in the National Assembly registered in the Central Election Commission for independent participation in the elections on 4 April 2021. 4. Selects the leadership and composition of the temporary committee as follows: Chairman, Members. The Commission shall be elected for a period of...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u146	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Anybody want a word? There aren't any. I declare the debate closed. Please, which is for the proposed draft decision, to vote. Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u148	Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u150	Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. The decision was adopted by 231 votes. I ask the political parties and coalitions to make their proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u151	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of GERB our proposals are Dimitar Glauchev, Toma Bikov and Anna Alexandrova, proposing Mr. Glauchev to be Chairman of this commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u152	Thank you. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u153	Dear Madam President, on behalf of "There is such a people" we offer Hristo Dochev a constitutionalist, for Chairman, and for members Victoria Vassileva and you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u154	Thank you. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u155	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! On behalf of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria we offer Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Filip Stefanov Popov and Todor Bajchev Bajchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u156	Thank you. From the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u157	Thank you. First, allow me, Madam President, to congratulate you on your election! To wish you many health and successes, as well as to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the laws of the country and the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which we will adopt. The proposal on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is Mr Hamid Hamid, Mr. Yordan Tsonev and Mr. Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u158	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? HRISTO Ivanov (DB) On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" I propose as members of the Commission Associate Professor Atanas Slavov, Ivan Velov and Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u159	Thank you. On behalf of Stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u160	On behalf of Stand up! I propose Dragomir Osavkov, Maria Kapon and Rumen Yonchev as Commissioners and Maria Kapon as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u161	There is no vice president, Mrs. Manolova. Thank you. And a deadline for the Commission's work? Will the deadline be set? Any proposal for a deadline? Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is practical for the temporary committees to set the deadline as follows: Point 5 must appear: The deadline is up to the final adoption of the Staff Regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u163	Thank you. There have been two proposals for a chairman... Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u164	Mrs. Chairman, congratulations from me. I wish you a successful mandate! Given that you are proposed to this committee and are President of the National Assembly, I am taking a reprieve as President of the Commission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u165	Thank you. Then I propose that the proposed applications be put to a full vote. Please, whoever is for the names so proposed, vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u168	Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. The proposals made for members of the Temporary Commission are thus supported by 232 Members of Parliament as members of the Temporary Commission. Messages for registration of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u169	The President must be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u170	No, because he is one and there is no point in voting, but I propose that we vote on the term for the Temporary Committee... [[Heckling]] Okay. Then I put to the vote the proposal of "There is such a people" for the Chairman of the Temporary Commission for the elaboration of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u173	Thank you. Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. Thank you. That's how we end this item on the agenda. We're moving on to the announcements for the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u174	The deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-15.u175	We voted it out. [[Reply.]] 232 for the deadline. A proposal has been submitted by the Chair of the DPS Parliamentary Group: Dear Madame Chairman! I hereby inform you that the MPs of the Political Party have decided to form a parliamentary group called the Movement for Rights and Freedoms at a meeting held on 14 April 2021. All necessary conditions under art. are fulfilled. 13, 14 and 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There is a minimum number of MPs required to form a parliamentary group, each of which does not belong to another parliamentary group. On the basis of art. 14, para. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I present to you a Protocol establishing the Parliamentary Group and a list of a guide to register the Parliamentary Group with which to register the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and its leadership in the special register of the National Assembly and this fact to be communicated at the first meeting of the Forty-Fifth National Assembly. [[Applause from DPS.]] Guide of the parliamentary group: Mustafa Sali Karadaiy "President of the parliamentary group of the DPS, Yordan Tsonev " Vice-President of the parliamentary group of the DPS, Hamid Hamid " Vice-President of the parliamentary group of the DPS, Halil Letifov "Vice-President of the parliamentary group of the DPS, Adlen Shevked " Secretary of the parliamentary group of the DPS. There was a second proposal for registration of BSP: Dear Madame Chairman! On 13 April 2021, on the basis of art. 44, para. 2 of the Statute of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, Section III, art. 12 of the Treaty establishing the Coalition for Bulgaria (BSP) on 8 February 2021 for participation in the parliamentary elections on 4 April 2021 and in conjunction with art. 13 and 14 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly were held a General Assembly of Members of the National Assembly elected with the ballot of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. The General Assembly has decided: He formed a parliamentary group of the MPs elected with the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. The name of the parliamentary group is: He elected Cornelia Petrova Ninova as the chairman of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. He selected a leadership of the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" in the composition: Georgi Stratilov Svilenski Vice-President; Krum Kostadinov Zarkov Vice-President; Hristo Tanchev Prodanov Vice-President; Atanas Zafirov Zafirov Vice-President; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov Vice-President; Christian Ivanov Vigenin Vice-President; Irena Todorova Anastasova Secretary; and Filip Stefanov Popov Secretary. The next one is from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS: Dear Madame Chairman! I would like to inform you that a General Assembly of Members of the National Assembly was held, selected with the lists registered by the Coalition "GERB-SDS" in the parliamentary elections held on 4 April 2021, which decided: He formed a parliamentary group of the MPs elected with the lists registered by Coalition GERB-SDS.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The name of the parliamentary group is the Parliamentary Group of the "GERB-SDS". He selected a leadership of the parliamentary group "GERB-SDZ" in the composition: President "Desislava Valcheva Atanasova," Vice-Presidents: Alexander Rumenov Nenkov; Rumen Dimitrov Hristov; Toma Lubomirov Bikov; Evgenia Biserova Alexieva The next one is from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people": Dear Madame Chairman! With the present we are informing you that the peoples of the Political Party there are such peoples who have decided to form a parliamentary group named "There is such a people" at a meeting held on 15 April 2021. All necessary conditions under art. are fulfilled. 13 - 15 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. There is a minimum number of MPs required to form a parliamentary group, each of which does not belong to another parliamentary group. On the basis of art. 14, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please enter the Parliamentary Group. There is such a people and its leadership in the special register of the National Assembly and this circumstance to be reported at the first meeting. Chairman of the parliamentary group There is such a people: Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov, Vice-Presidents of the parliamentary group There is such a people: Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva; Ivaylo Vanev Valchev; Filip Marinov Stanev; Ivo Georgiev Atanasov, Secretary. An application has been made by the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Democratic Bulgaria. I present to you a decision of the General Assembly of the National Assembly elected by the lists of the Coalition "Democratic Bulgaria" and a Protocol with a decision to choose the leadership of the parliamentary group. Please carry out the necessary actions under the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" (Democratic Bulgaria), Hristo Lyubomir Ivanov, and three Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Group: Tsetska Georgieva Bachkova, Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova, Vladislav Panchev Panev. The last statement is from Stand up! Goons out! On 14 April 2021, the elected MPs of the list of.......................................................................................... A decision was made for the formation of a parliamentary group. Goons out!... on the grounds of art...................................................................................................... Art. 13 and art. 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The name of the parliamentary group is a parliamentary group. The leadership of the parliamentary group is composed: Chairman Maya Bozidarova Manolova; Vice-President Nikolay Dimitrov Hadzhigenov; Secretaries: Dragomir Georgiev Osavkov and Stancho Dimitrov Stavrev. With this, the agenda for today's sitting is exhausted. At the end of the meeting, I shall convene the Chairmanship Council. I am closing the first plenary session of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. [[(Ringing. (Applause)]]
