ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode! Mrs. Angelkova will participate in the meeting online. Hello, Mrs. Angelkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u2	Hello!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u3	I'm registering you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u5	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. One hundred twenty-three MPs have been registered in the Chamber plus one remote turn 124, 63 are the MPs who have the right to make a decision today in the Chamber. [[The House is attended by MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Welcome to the BSP colleagues! Dear colleagues, I will present to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme for 17 February 2021. "1." New discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area adopted by the National Assembly on 27 January 2021, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 36 of 4 February 2021 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. New discussion of the Law on Supplement to the Code of Criminal Procedure, adopted by the National Assembly on 29 January 2021, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 41 of 10 February 2021 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 4 December 2020. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Law Enforcement. It was introduced by Iglika Sabeva and a group of MPs on 3 February 2021. Adopted in the first vote on 12 February 2021. 5. Second vote on the Industrial Parks Bill. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 2 December 2020. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. Adopted in the first vote on 28 January 2021. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. Adopted in the first vote on 15 January 2021. Point 1 for Thursday 18 February 2021 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. Adopted in the first vote on 28 January 2021. Point 2 for Thursday 18 February 2021 9. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness. It was introduced by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2021. Adopted in the first vote on 5 February 2021. Point 3 for Thursday 18 February 2021 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020. Adopted at first vote on 20 January 2021. Point 4 for Thursday 18 February 2021 11. First vote on the bill on the word organization and the professional activity of psychologists. It was introduced by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 11 February 2021. Point 1 for Friday 19 February 2021 12. Draft Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2021. It was implemented by the European Affairs and Control Committee on European Funds on Friday 19 February 2021. 13. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 8 February 2021. Point 3 for Friday 19 February 2021 14. Parliamentary control after the legislative part of the meeting was concluded on Friday 19 February 2021. Please vote on the proposed agenda. They voted 159 MPs: 118, against 6, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, my procedure is: point two of the voting agenda in the plenary this week to become item one, respectively, point one to become item two. Our next procedure is: in relation to the upcoming vote, to do a name-check. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Please give me the lists! Let's start backwards: Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid here. Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Philip Stefanov Popov here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- absent Todor Baychev- here Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - here Stefan Apostolov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Rumen Petrov Genov- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rosen Malinov Malinov-- here. Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- absent Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Pavel Mikhaylov Savov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova (through the Internet) video conference platform) - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Maria Shtereva Belova- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Cristina Maximova Sidorova- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Apostolov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Ilian Angelov Timchev- here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emil Marinov Hristov- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- here There's a quorum. We will proceed with the hearing. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If we vote, I'll give you a procedure. Please change the order of the items on the agenda to pass the PPC first, then the PPC. They voted 159 MPs: 113 against 7, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, my procedure is on your agenda, proposed and voted by the majority of this National Assembly. Last week, Madam President, I drew attention from this platform to you and to the majority that once again on the GERB's agenda there is no very important bill, given the upcoming elections, namely the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. In it we have proposed transparency and honesty in the conduct of the elections, namely video surveillance in the counting of ballots and their reporting in the respective protocols of the sectional committees, as well as clearing the electoral lists by means of active registration. Since January 21st, this bill has been tabled, and to this day you have found no time and place to be examined in plenary or in the Legal Commission. It is obvious that the transparency and honesty of the upcoming elections is absent from GERB's agenda. You want and talk about transparency, supposedly honesty, supposedly proper and fair coverage of the vote of every Bulgarian citizen, but you do nothing about it. On the contrary, you are trying to sabotage this legitimate and transparent process in which the Bulgarian citizens will be sure that the one they voted for will be correctly reflected in the relevant protocol. Again you neglect our proposal with an attempt to push it forward in time so that there is no time left to even adopt this bill in order to implement the provisions laid down therein. From this tribune, I ask that the Bill be re-entered the National Assembly's agenda if it is necessary for the Legal Commission to make an extraordinary meeting, to consider our draft Election Code this week, I repeat, for video surveillance and clearing of electoral lists, and to be reviewed this week by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Just for the record, last week I replied to you: according to the deadline laid down in the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I have distributed this bill. I will talk to Mrs. Alexandrova, and as far as I know, she is waiting for the opinions on this subject, but I will insist that this bill will enter into the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, the same answer you gave a week ago, again on Wednesday, on the same procedure that you will ask Mrs. Alexandrova next week to hold a meeting and examine the bill, you have done your job and everything is over. Yeah, but no! You've done your job formally by distributing the Law, and the Legal Committee is waiting for some opinions. And now I will ask you: for example, under the Roads Act, which is point 13 for Friday: do you have opinions from all interested parties, so you have included it in the Programme, and on the issue that excites all Bulgarian citizens the elections and the Election Code, we are waiting for opinions? These opinions may come after 6 April, they may come after 6 May. When an opinion is requested, which is interested, to give it, which is not interested, the National Assembly will decide to inform itself, we will see what the proposals are and we will vote on them. You can't make fun of the National Assembly like this! You did it with the first point, with the first procedure, when you change two points without absolutely no arguments, only to have any vote, and now you are doing it for the second time. In 10 minutes you humiliate the Bulgarian Parliament twice!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. As you know, as chairman, I have no right to interfere with the work of the committees. Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u12	Mrs. Chairman! I begin my procedure as follows: I congratulate you and the parliament's leadership in the back, which quite calmly listened to our previous procedures, and so it must be to listen to the opposition's motives for what we propose. And now I call on you, because the question is very serious, in the same calm and reasonable way to hear what we have to say to you and who you should call as President of Parliament. All of us in this room are angry about the ridiculous and terrifying incident, about the tragic accident in which a boy, a Bulgarian child died because of a naked cable. We've all witnessed how and what we get so far is nothing. There's not a single institution that's going to respond to this madness, I'd say. Therefore, Madam President, since yesterday and in the parliamentary group of BSP and in the public space, there has been very serious information that says that this naked cable, which actually [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u13	Mr. Chenchev, please tell me what you want me to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u14	Would you listen to me? [[(Comments from GERB: What are we talking about?]] Colleagues, do not laugh because this is not about politics, it is about finding and taking responsibility from the people who are responsible for the death of a Bulgarian child! So don't laugh, this is very serious!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u15	Mr. Chenchev, who do you think we should invite?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u16	Madam President, since information has appeared that this exposed cable is powered by pavilions that are owned or held by the municipal councillor of GERB, should be presented here...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u17	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u18	...to call them as: Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mayor of Sofia, Chairman of GERB Party and Vice-President of GERB Party, who manage...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u19	Mr. Chenchev, thank you. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Colleagues, let's offer condolences to the family and not make cheap PR from a child's death. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, guys! As far as I know, the competent authorities are working on it. Let's move on, guys. Mr. Svilensky, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, the situation is extraordinary, the situation is tragic, severe, and we must all be at the level of responsibility with which our constituents have sent us here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u21	I couldn't agree more, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u22	In this regard, Madam President, for two days you and we all have been watching and listening and no one is giving an answer to a single question. Who has powered the cable will become clear, but who has allowed to have pavilions in Sofia without electricity or to have pavilions with illegal electricity, or to have pavilions to be powered by the pavements on the road? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u23	What's your procedure, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u24	The procedure, Madam President, is: on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which is a law in this country, honourable Members of the National Assembly, to call, to invite the Prime Minister and the Mayor of Sofia Municipality. To come the mayor of Sofia Municipality to the Bulgarian Parliament and to answer the question who allowed these pavilions, if they have permission, do they not have permission, whose property they are, if they know they may be illegal, they may not have a owner, they may have been placed just like that. That's the guy who...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u25	I understand your procedure, Mr. Svilensky. You know under art. 113 how to act, so you can also initiate a hearing under this article. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Speak only by procedure, please, you have another 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u26	If you'd like, Madam President, I can read art. 113, but I guess you know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u27	No, I don't want you to read it. All Members of the National Assembly shall have the Rules before them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u28	I want you to tell me: on the basis of which member I or we should submit it in advance? Tell me: a member of the so-and-so, a paragraph of the so-and-so. I'm telling you that on the grounds of art. 113, para. 2 I make an offer and you have to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u29	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. We won't be testing each other right now, I understand your proposal. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator shall continue to speak with microphones off and shall submit the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the President.]] Don't give me the rules, I have my rules! Thank you. Mr. Prodanov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u30	It's the way it's supposed to be. Since I know that once you hear Boyko Borisov's name, you will immediately turn off my microphone...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u31	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u32	...I want to ask you what should happen in this country, if there is power in this country, in the parliamentary Republic of Bulgaria, which can bring the Prime Minister here to the MPs to explain the outrage that is happening, about the loss of human lives...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u33	Mr. Prodanov, there is absolutely no evidence so far who is responsible for this death.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u34	Whoever is responsible must take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u35	Let us let the competent authorities do their job and then invite them to the National Assembly. We can't press charges until we know what the circumstances are. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, it is clear that we have entered an election campaign. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! I think that those who speak before you have clearly articulated before you why the Prime Minister should come here because this four-year government has already led to deaths. [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Philip Popov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u37	Mr. Popov, please, let's get to work! [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria."]] Please! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ivanov, thank you. There's a procedure for Mr. Rashidov. Let's alternate some procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u38	Madam President, colleagues, you are beginning again with primitiveism in politics. [[Applause from GERB.]] First of all, condolences to this child's relatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u39	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u40	Nobody wanted to kill him. It happened. [[(Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] Yeah. You know that lately Boyko Borisov is responsible for the collapse of the highway Boyko Borisov is guilty in Tahiti with the typhoon, Boyko Borisov is guilty?! What do you need it for? Call him somewhere and he will respond to you especially. But you've been continuing that negative on TV since morning and turning it into politics doesn't honor you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u41	The procedure for me, Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u42	What's being done in this room is already perversion. There are so many important things. Is that why you came here to make politics out of this tribune with the death of a little boy? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" What is the procedure? "]] Is that your policy? The death of a child?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u43	Mr. Rashidov, maybe...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u44	The procedure is: please no longer allow this outrage.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u46	We've been in some negativity and primitiveism since this morning. Please, seriously! Bills are coming up! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u47	Mr. Danchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u48	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, the procedure is for you. Mr. Svilensky made a clear proposal for a hearing on a particular matter of public importance under art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which you, at the very least, could put to the vote and the Members of the National Assembly clearly state their will, do they want to hear, is this an important public issue for them or not? So I'm asking you to step into character! Indeed, what happened the other day with a young boy shows once again...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u49	Mr. Danchev, we understand what your proposal is. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Read these rules, Mr. Danchev, please. You've been in parliament for four years. There is a clear procedure how this can happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u50	Will you put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u51	No, I won't. Do what you need to do as a parliamentary group, submit it under art. 113 and then I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u52	There is no such member, Karayancheva. There's no such thing as a cock! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u53	Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u54	Madam President, did you not notice that there were four procedures in the manner of the opposition and the four of us turned off the microphones?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u55	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u56	You didn't do it to Mr. Rashidov. Why? What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u57	Mr. Chenchev praised me when I turned off the microphones.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u58	Is it objective to hold the National Assembly meeting? In our opinion, it is the withdrawal and silence of the opposition's voice. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] About what Mr. Rashidov was saying and you listened very calmly that this was not a political issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u59	I'll explain why.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u60	Madam President, the security of citizens, of the environment that surrounds us, is an entirely political issue. And just because it is a political issue, we want the biggest and most prominent politician from GERB to come here, the one who is the President of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u61	He is not President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prodanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u62	...is the chairman of the party. Otherwise, we would have made you if we didn't see it as political, but as a criminal or someone else, invite Mata Hari here. Only we want you to invite Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u63	Mr. Prodanov, I turned off the microphone of my colleagues at the BSP because you've spoken about the same subject four times. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] You're right, of course, Mrs. Ninova. It's not in the way of conduct. Mr. Chenchev, who spoke, was given the opportunity to speak for two minutes without interrupting. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Calm down, Mr. Chenchev! Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u64	Madam President, on several occasions from our parliamentary group we repeat the same proposal and it is addressed to you. It's based on art. 113. Nowhere in art. 113, Madam President, the form in which this proposal should be made is not recorded: whether orally here from the parliamentary platform or in writing. There's no such thing. I do not know which Rules you read, but in the Rules of this National Assembly there is no form of proposal under art. 113. That is, it can be done orally. You have to put it to the vote. Because Mr. Rashidov said here that this was a perversion in the parliamentary room. Well perversion is when the rules are not respected, perversion is the way Bulgarians live under your rule. It's perversion!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u65	Okay, we get it. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Don't tell me what to do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u66	I'm telling you what to do because you're equal...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u67	I'm even. First among equals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u68	That is correct, and you have no right to take the floor of a Member of the National Assembly when it comes to the subject. I'm talking about art. 113 and you must enter into your powers and put this proposal to the vote. Let's see in the hall who hides whom, who hides Fandakova, who hides Boyko Borisov, because this is an important public interest. Since yesterday and that day all Bulgarians jump over the shafts in Bulgaria because this is what your government has led to. Put it to the vote! To come here, to explain! We, unlike you, do not blame the parliamentary tribune, but we want explanations because this is an important issue because a Bulgarian child lost his life the other day. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u69	Mr. Popov, I think the competent authorities are working on this. I don't think so. I'm sure. I don't know what the Prime Minister can tell us about this particular subject, if it comes from this tribune, on this particular subject? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u70	Madam President, since you asked what the Prime Minister could say, what could the mayor of Sofia Municipality say? Mr. Borisov was two years mayor of Sofia Municipality, after which Mrs. Fandakova stood for another 10 years. [[Noise and lines.]] Twelve years...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u71	You're in a lot of pain.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u72	...Twelve years is both very little time and a very long time for them both to know... By the way, what interests Bulgarian citizens is: whose property are these pavilions, are they legal or not legal? Doesn't that interest you, colleagues? Madam President, with the stubbornness you are trying to hide both the Prime Minister and the mayor of Sofia Municipality, do you understand the responsibility you are putting on your back? Because now all Bulgarian citizens can think: why is Karayancheva hiding the owners of these pavilions? [[Noise and lines.]] Why Karayancheva...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u73	Mr. Svilensky, please don't make suggestions from the parliamentary tribune! Everything has a measure! [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Please take your place! Yes, of course, because you're trying to make suggestions from the parliamentary tribune...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u74	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u75	...that I'm hiding someone, that I know something about it. Please. There's a transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u76	Madam President, I said you leave such an impression, which is radically different from whether you're hiding or not. What you're hiding, you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u77	What impressions you have are of little interest to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u78	Probably, but Bulgarian citizens are interested in whose property these pavilions are because, honourable MPs, corruption in Bulgaria kills.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u79	Mr. Svilensky, in the manner of conduct, please! We know what your point is. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Well, that's the procedure right now. Come on, five seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u80	Come now, Madam President, tell me in the manner of conduct: in two minutes how many times have you taken my word?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u81	Pretty much. I admit it, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, do the procedure under art. 113, submit it to the National Assembly and I will put it to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Anastasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u82	There is no such procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva. Here, highlight the texts that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u83	Don't bring me... Take your rules, take your rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u84	Emphasize the text of the dick where it says this. Show me where it says it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u85	Take your place, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u86	I'll borrow it, but you don't know the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u87	Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u88	Madam President, this is the first procedure I've done in four years. I'm just doing it because I'm outraged. First of all, from the way you allow yourself to interrupt colleagues. We are MPs and we are here to express our opinions, desires, to defend the interests of the people. I want to tell you that it is high time that you stopped this from qualifying what, the behavior of your post. I think we've made it very clear what we want. When a child is no longer with us, I imagine what happens if this happens in a school.. this principal will be torn apart because he is responsible for everything. When this happens on the street, responsibility is carried along the chain, and at the top of this chain is the Prime Minister. And I don't understand why you refuse to call him? What are you afraid of? Put to the vote what we're offering you, and let's see who's playing, who's smiling from the stands? It's about a child's life. It is about the lives of many Bulgarians who, in one way or another, because of their lack of care, because of corruption schemes, have lost their lives. And that's not any pep talk at all. Go explain to that father who was crying on all the TV footage that this is an election campaign campaign! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u89	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Let's move on to point one: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR ACQUISITION OF THE PUNISHED-PROCESUAL CODEX, ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 29 JANUARY 2021, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCUSSION WITH SAYN No 41 OF 10 FEVRUARS 2021 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF JL. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There is permanent parliamentary practice on this article.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u90	There are rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u91	We're fully operational, Mr. Svilensky. Please don't persist! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Make a written procedure and I will put it to the vote. Mrs. Alexandrova, would you like to introduce us to the Report? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please, the Quaestors, bring order to the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u92	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 41 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 10 February 2021, on the return for a new discussion of the Law supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, adopted by the National Assembly on 29 January 2021, and the reasons to the Ukhaza. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are standing next to the stand and entering into dialogue with President Tsveta Karayancheva. Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u93	Continue, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u94	At its meeting held on 16 February 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 41 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 10 February 2021, for a return for a new discussion of the Law on Supplement to the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by the National Assembly on 29 January 2021, and the reasons to the Decree. The meeting was attended by: from the administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria: Mrs. Ivanka Ivanova, adviser on legal issues; from the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister; and Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Legal Service. Mrs. Ivanova reported to the members of the Commission the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The President returns for a new discussion in the National Assembly the Law on Supplement to the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by the National Assembly on 29 January 2021. In his motives, the President points out that he shares the need to find a legislative solution to the problem of the lack of an effective investigation against acting Prosecutor General and other senior prosecutors, taking into account as a positive development the fact that, when discussing the Draft Law in the National Assembly, the prosecutor on the investigation of the Prosecutor General or his deputy has been appointed by decision of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council and that responsibility has been transferred to the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council. The President believes that with the introduction of a new position, a prosecutor for the investigation of the Prosecutor General or his deputy is violating a number of fundamental constitutional principles, including the independence of the court, the independence of prosecutors within the judiciary and the equality of citizens before the law. The reasons for the Decree show that the changes adopted significantly jeopardise the autonomy of the Prosecutor General, his deputies and all other prosecutors. It is noted that when certain prosecutorial decisions are taken outside the hierarchic control system, they can be much easier to use to cover up a crime and the investigation to serve as an illegal effect on the Prosecutor General himself, his alternates, and through them and on ordinary prosecutors. The President points out that the obligation to conduct an effective investigation is violated, in his view, contrary to this principle, § 2 of the Law on Supplement to the PPC provides that the investigation of all crimes committed by the Prosecutor General or his deputy is to be conducted by a single prosecutor without regard to the type of crime, i.e. without respect for family jurisdiction, and without respect for the place where it was committed, that is, without respect for local prosecution. It is argued that this would prevent the effectiveness of the investigation, since, on the one hand, it would lead to jurisdiction disputes because, most often, at the initial points of the investigation, it is not known who committed the crime and when allocating the proceedings, the general rules for determining jurisdiction will be followed. It would also not be possible for a prosecutor to conduct an objective, comprehensive and full investigation into crimes committed throughout the country, nor could he have a good authority over the methodologies for investigating all crimes. In his motives, the President states that the constitutional principle of equality of citizens is violated before the law, as the legislator introduces, in respect of the Prosecutor General and his alternates, substantial differences in relation to the order established for investigating crimes committed by all other citizens, and thereby allows for an unjustified violation of the principle of equality of citizens before the law. The President considers that the principle of independence of the court is being violated because § 6 of the Law on the Supplement to the Code of Criminal Procedure introduces a contradiction with the principle adopted so far, with the jurisdiction of the Specialized Criminal Court expanding and already involving the cases in which the Prosecutor of the investigation against the Prosecutor General or his deputy is competent. The discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Krum Zarkov, Christian Mitev and Philip Popov. Mr. Krum Zarkov and Mr. Philip Popov said that from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria People's representatives Krasimir Tsipov and Christian Mitev stressed that they did not share the reasons presented to the President's Decree and will vote for the re-acceptance of the law by giving detailed arguments in support of it. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the National Assembly, 7 votes against the National Assembly, and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Supplement to the Code of Criminal Procedure, adopted by the National Assembly on 29 January 2021, should be read again.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u95	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Members of the National Assembly from BSP for Bulgaria are coming to the stands.)]] Colleagues, since we have already lost almost an hour in debate, after this point is complete, I will put your procedure to the vote. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's started the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u96	The procedure shall be voted on immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u97	Please leave the stands. [[Replys from MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Take your seats. Please take your seats. I'm gonna put it to the vote just to get the job started. Welcome to the House, Members of the National Assembly. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. I'd like my colleagues to take their seats. After all, today we have to do the work we planned. That is the only reason why I will put this procedure to a vote so that it can stop the debate on the subject and continue with the other topics to come on today's agenda. Who do you want us to invite to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u98	And the mayor of Sofia Municipality. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u99	Please vote on Mr. Svilensky's procedure. Vote 180 MPs: 72 against 100 abstentions 8. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u100	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u101	Okay, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u102	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u103	What do you want, Mr. Chenchev, yet?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u104	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u105	Here you go. I gave you my word. Stop stalling the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u106	Me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u108	Madam President, this is a re-voting procedure, but you do all the time...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] I figured out the procedure. Please, re-election mode. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] It's none of your business who loves who, Mr. Chenchev! Please step down from the stands. We're in voting mode. Vote 184 MPs: for 76, against 103, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Glauchev, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u110	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u111	There's no microphone, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u112	Did they stop me? Can you hear it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u113	It's coming through, Mr. Glauchev. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u114	My procedure is the way I conduct myself. You shouldn't have allowed a vote, because under art. 113 points are inserted on the agenda, and this is only written. I'm going to explain this to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u115	That's right, Mr. Glauchev. I absolutely agree with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u116	Points on the agenda shall only be entered in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u117	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u118	In addition, Madam President, you had to ask BSP colleagues whether they knew the child's name? They only say the child. I know the name of the child. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Whether any of you went to the child's family to ask what they wanted, and they want the culprit to be identified. As far as I know, the guilty are established by competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u119	And we want the reasons, Glauchev! The reasons!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u120	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u121	Svilenski, among other things, did not expect from colleagues from Sofia who know that there are district mayors, to call the Prime Minister, not the district mayor who is responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u122	He should come and say what he needs to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u123	Quiet, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u124	But this is it, Madam President. It was all about you. You could have asked them about all those things I mentioned to you. Besides, they weren't exactly right about what they wanted. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u125	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u126	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u127	There's no way in which there's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u128	I was mentioned in person.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u129	We have broken the Rules enough today, Mr. Svilensky, thanks to my good will to put to the vote a proposal that you should have submitted in writing. Let's keep working on the agenda. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] There's no personal explanation for the procedure. We continue with speeches on the first point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u130	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u131	Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u132	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because in the revoting I had raised my hand that I could not vote. I do not know why you have decided that you must stop the vote before my vote can be taken into account. I would especially like it to be noted that I voted for this. I wanted to vote on it, but you didn't give me a chance to do it. And to ask you, when it comes to tragic incidents in the country, do not try to blame someone and try to accuse us of politicizing when we are willing to seek political responsibility, not criminal. Punitive responsibility will be given to the court. We are talking about the political responsibility, the carelessness and the lack of statehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u134	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u135	Mr. Svilensky, don't you feel like you're overreacting? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] One hour we're playing with parliamentary moves to make cheap political PR. It's not dignified. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u136	Don't comment without knowing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u138	Madam President, please, first of all, don't comment on me before you know what I'm going to ask and what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u139	Perhaps you'd like to commend me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u140	What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna tell you in a minute, but don't comment on me before I say what I want to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u141	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u142	Mr. Glauchev made a negative vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u143	It's not a true procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u144	...and he said that as a city councilman, I should know very well. And since I know very well who authorizes the kiosks in Sofia Municipality, we call the mayor and the Prime Minister. And now, Madam President, the procedure on behalf of the parliamentary group is for a 30-minute break. I didn't bother you or anything. Thirty-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u145	Thank you. Fifteen-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u146	I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u147	First affidavit on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u148	Here you are, a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u149	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Four years in the mandate of the 44th National Assembly BSP raises the issue of corruption in Bulgaria, which has eaten up statehood for four years! Four years, the last especially, have led to a level of corruption that you have been told by both Europe and various monitoring reports of this same Europe and the BSP. We have come to the point that today we want to seek and point out who is politically responsible for what has happened, and for hundreds of other similar cases of negligence, of idleness, of incompetence, of the fact that in the country's governance in the various administrations there are All of you in the ruling majority are jumping like stings when we tell you we've reached the point where corruption is already killing. And because this is the same and visual, and there is no person in Bulgaria who does not think about where people have led, because not whether we know one name, but we know that in Bulgaria there are 7 million names - 7 million names of Bulgarian citizens who deserve a decent life and who cannot get it as they want, because the management of GERB simply does not give it to them. [[Comments from GERB: "They have chosen this management. "]] And these people, the Bulgarian citizens, must know the truth as they shine on this case and on every one of them. How many tragic cases should there be, how many to take political responsibility from people on whom the decent life of Bulgarian citizens depends because they govern the entire system of government? How long must they wait and how long must the families of victims or dead suffer? These questions are screaming for answers, and that's what we want. Political responsibility must be sought here in this Chamber, because we all have a duty to the citizens. What's the chronology, what happened when we had such a ridiculous and terrifying accident? Nothing! Zero! Nothing! There's a transfer of responsibility, not a single word from any institution. So how long and what are you gonna cover up?! The issue of the exposed cable is a question of precisely this corruption, because this cable leads to some pavilions, the pavilions lead to some people, these people are in the respective departments of the regional, municipal and state level. These people ask other people and they all manage the system, and that's what you are, and because you manage this way, both the people out there and here in the room, all those who do not belong to your ranks know that this has led to your collapse management at GERB. For this reason, we insist on the resignation of Mayor Yordanka Fandakova and, of course, there are two reasons that are the main reasons for the responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the political responsibility is not only because those individuals who have to lead both the capital and Bulgaria, but unfortunately, we see that they cannot, in fact, are the President and the Vice-President of your political party. So they have a double political responsibility. And no, this time your number won't work! You won't talk about how or what happened, who was guilty down there, because maybe we should be looking for political responsibility from the chief accountant of the area, based on your logic?! This time your number will not simply pass because it is about death, because it is about political incompetence, because it is about corruption and because it is about your governance! Your management! Sofia, especially in the last 12 years, has been governed entirely by Boyko Borisov and Yordanka Fandakova. Those are the facts. Tell me, who should take the political responsibility? You! Because you are so determined to govern the state that it is not clear how far the Bulgarian citizens will go! Do you hear the demands of Bulgarian citizens? Do you hear the demands of these grieving families? Do you hear the demands of all normal people who live and pay their taxes in Bulgaria? You don't even want to invite the Bulgarian Prime Minister to parliament. You don't want to invite him, not call him. He doesn't know and hasn't set foot in this room! This, if it is not an attitude to parliamentaryism, but to state health, tell him! There is no way that a prime minister in a normal parliamentary, democratic republic can not come to Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, he is afraid of parliament, he is afraid of what will be interpreted later, because he wants to say one thing, but no one actually believes him anymore! And you're the ones who protect him here. [[Comments from GERB: "This is what we are working on. "]] But people see people see! The way in which you are defending him is unpardonable, absurd, even with frequent violations of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. That's what you do. The Prime Minister, your chairman of your parliamentary party, this man, does not know and has not set foot in this Chamber for more than one year and has not set foot in Parliament for two years at all? Now that's sacrilegious, and it can't go on any longer! The Bulgarian people deserve an explanation, deserves to know who is responsible for all the damage and outrage you have done! He deserves to know because it's your responsibility! Yours! You're in charge! The whole system of the state and the responsibility is all yours! People know it and instead of this person coming here and telling the truth to the Bulgarian population, you do not even want to let it happen by voting. I feel like you don't want to know what the truth is. You may be talking here in the couloirs, but you are saving it to the Bulgarian people. The Bulgarian people deserve to know what is happening at every moment in the country. This is the idea of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that is the idea! Each MP is here to express the will of the voters as a whole and not of individual voters, and this is the population of Bulgaria. You don't give it a chance. You have brought Bulgaria to a level of corruption of terrible proportions, this is what Europe tells you, you sort of sweep it under the carpet, life goes on, but your life continues, people live in poverty and more and more tragic accidents happen to them. He even had one yesterday, but no publicity was given to him, and he was in the center of Sofia and it happened before my eyes. That's why it's also because of neglect and neglect on the part of an institution in front of its building. That's why we want answers. It is not only because of BSP, because of Bulgarian citizens we want answers and we must get them. We all have to want them, all of us, and they have to get them, because that's how a parliamentary state works. Not by calling, not by hiding the Prime Minister and carrying responsibility, because this town has been run by you for 12 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u150	The weather, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u151	Whoever is in charge of the city must bear the responsibility and leave immediately, as well as, of course, free from its presence on the political stage and political party GERB, which is the collapse of Bulgaria and this is the collapse GERB. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing another veto of the President, the 27th in turn, the 28th is the next item and it is directly about the issues of the rule of law. The rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, is a concept that goes through all spheres of public and public life. In a country where there is a rule of law, there are no stripped cables. In a country where there is a rule of law, everyone is responsible for their actions and omissions. And now that we are going to consider whether the Attorney General is subject to control in relation to his unlawful actions, we cannot fail to note that he is somewhat hypocritical, given that the National Assembly has just demonstrated that he does not maintain control over those who are his guardians. In essence, even this issue, this small part of the whole rule of law principle, which is to be able to prosecute anyone, including the Attorney General, you can't or won't decide for three years. This law, which was returned by the President, is another attempt. You never understood what you wanted to do and how you wanted to do it, and the President gave it back to you very correctly. Because what you are proposing was defined as absurd, as extravagance, as an incomprehensible concept of the entire Bulgarian legal community, by European observers, by anyone who has formally stated an opinion to the National Assembly or informally in the public debate, who is accompanying the topic. The President also recalls the opinion of the Supreme Judicial Council, and the opinion of the Supreme Judicial Council, and the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office itself, and makes a successful attempt to enrich these motives with five other groups of motives.................................................................................. I will not dwell further on these motives, first because they are clearly written, second because we have been tired of repeating them to you by this and other laws for four years. It is also very shameful what is happening in our communication with the Venice Commission and with the bodies of the Council of Europe. A hundred times you offer them something, a hundred times your people answer the same thing, and I'm afraid this time will be another episode of this drama. The Kolevi case started since 2009, only this issue is part of a much wider one, about how the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office works and what is the role of the Prosecutor General in it. To bring up only the question of his prosecution and try to solve it in the simplest way, by saying: we will simply make another such prosecutor, is not serious! Worse, it will certainly be ineffective and I have no point in convincing you more, as I see in your eyes, you understand it very well. From this debate, however, let us see if there can be any sense, as far as everything has already been said, everything is clear in the specific bill, but let us explain the problem itself, because if you do not put the problem correctly, you will never find the right solution. The big problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that our prosecution is functioning in a way that actually allows interference in the internal conviction of the ordinary prosecutors. If there wasn't such a problem, there wouldn't be any problem with the investigation of the chief. Why? Because, as the Constitutional Court told you in 2020, On your request, nothing prevents every prosecutor from investigating, including the chief. The obstacles come de facto and they can be removed with the relevant legal changes, and I will tell you in our opinion which, but must be put in full. The question of the practical non-violence of the Prosecutor General cannot be resolved unless it is legally specified what exactly the methodical management it carries out is. It is obvious that the constitutional legislature has not made this concept procedurally so. Except it also appears in the Code of Criminal Procedure. What happens in practice is the question you need to ask yourself if you want to seriously solve the problem. This problem cannot be solved unless a clear framework is made: what is the supervision of the legality that the prosecutor carries out. Why? The Constitution in its article. 127, c. 1 and 3 clearly explains that supervision of legality concerns investigations, executions of penalties and other enforcement measures. In practice, however, it seems to me that the old 1971 Constitution has been functioning, providing for general supervision of legality, which allows the prosecution to rule on a whole bunch of questions from the cost of water, through pedestrian paths to the way certain officials and regulators do their job. It is natural that this method of work leads to a radically different function that the Prosecutor General performs, from that which is laid down in our constitutional framework. And last but not least. If it is not terminated in any form and with the necessary changes in the actual influence of the Prosecutor General at the Supreme Judicial Council, and in particular in his Prosecution College, it is then given the opportunity to influence the career development of every prosecutor and this naturally leads to influences. This whole volume of questions you have avoided them skillfully for four years, avoiding them with all sorts of finers reaching even to the Constitution to our basic law. The only thing that bothers you is to place them and decide. I would have thought that you couldn't, only this cannot be accepted for the simple reason that there are already enough opinions from the international institutions in which they have described from So it's not that you can't, it's that you don't want to! This bill won't solve the problem. It will create another one. We will become the first country in the world to appoint a prosecutor, a special one, of the highest rank, to investigate only one person in five years of time at the top of the judiciary. In other words, we will be ridiculous! We're convinced that you can't, you won't, and you won't solve this problem. The only thing you can do is leave so you don't interfere with others who want to do it. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u154	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u155	Dear Members of Parliament, there is a lot of talk and a lot of talk on this bill, but, unfortunately, you didn't hear anything. In spite of the stubbornness of the Constitutional Court's decisions, you have submitted, you have voted on this bill, and it seems that, even now, despite the veto, you will again support it. The president's veto is a chance for you to fix this nonsense. You are turning our entire legal system upside down, a chance for you to remove this exotic, incomprehensible to any legal system, a prosecutor for the investigation of the Prosecutor General, who is part of the executive system of the Prosecutor's Office, but has special powers. You have not taken into account any opinion of the Supreme Judicial Council, the prosecution itself, the Supreme Judicial Council, the entire legal community, which clearly and categorically tell you what Frankenstein is doing, what difficult problems you will create with this law and will not solve any problem. Yes, you will! You will create, for example, a fast track for career growth of investigators at the Special Prosecutor's Office. All this is clearly evident in the motives of the President, which we support, which we have told you both at first and second reading, we are telling you and now we are telling you the reasons that have been spoken by the entire legal community, but you have not heard. You're self-sufficient. This bill once again shows clearly the ugly contours of the collapse GERB. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u156	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the basis for each legislative initiative should be given a problem to have an analysis, impact assessment, where this problem really is, what gives rise to it, how the bill solves it. I haven't heard from the government once to point out where there's actually a problem with the Chief Prosecutor's figure? It's not about one person or another. Practice has proven that this problem has stood for decades. It is deep and systematic, it has been referred to as such by European institutions and has become the subject of resolutions, has become the subject of international scandals, of numerous opinions of the Venice Commission, but not once have the government said where the problem is with the figure of the Prosecutor General with its powers and at all. When we examined the Prosecutor General's report, we never once heard criticism from you, not once did we hear you point out a single problem. So today's decision you're offering us is nothing more than a blur of the Venice Commission's eyes, and you've become experts at it. In the words of the Prime Minister, you lied to them by 200, once again by introducing a hollow figure, which will, of course, not solve any problem, as we warned you with the new anticorruption body, a collection of old authorities, which is appointed by the same Assembly and the same majority. Now another figure, which is appointed by the same majority and the same people, but for the same purpose of not doing the job, the status quo to keep its security and nothing to change. And this should make it clear to the Bulgarian citizens that this is another exercise, which aims only to buy time before international organizations and to give you some more. But I take over and stand by my words and sign for them there will be no result! And I don't know why you're so angry at this phrase, the collapse GERB, because this is the last legislative collapse you're doing in this National Assembly. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u158	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u159	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Most likely this Chamber of the National Assembly examines the last presidential veto...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u160	The last one!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u161	...the last presidential veto on our legislative activity and I will allow myself to determine, at least for myself, this veto on these legislative amendments perhaps as the most meaningful. Because there is no doubt that the introduction of the figure of a prosecutor to monitor the activities of the Attorney General cannot be defined in any other way than anti-constitutional. The purpose of the Bulgarian Constitution and the principles on which it is built are based on a basic principle in the construction of individual branches of power and this is the principle of separation of authorities. The separation of the authorities, as is understood today in the Bulgarian political reality, is at least weird. The issue of the structure of the judiciary would have defined it among the first three issues which were the subject of attention to this Chamber of the National Assembly. The whole question, which the Bulgarian public does not understand, is what are the reasons for this fierce struggle on the courtside of the political authorities? If the judiciary is independent, the way it says in art. 117 of the Constitution, why the Bulgarian Parliament, protesters outside the building of the National Assembly, parties, international institutions and everyone else are dealing with this topic?! The Bulgarian Constitution turned 30 years old. Why is it that only the judiciary is the most imperfect of all the authorities and is the focus of the political debate in Bulgaria now one or more mandates?! Because, honourable Members, in our political reality, things usually never come up with their real names. Because the independence of the judiciary is used by corporate authorities. Because that constitutional guarantee, which is provided for its independence, namely the professional growth, are the internal clear mechanisms of constructing the different levels of the judiciary, the prosecution, the courts. All other professional guarantees for the functioning and independence of that power, such as professional independence, individual qualities, hierarchy growth, professional competence as a criterion for the growth of the hierarchy, all of this does not exist, but it also applies to other types of authorities, honourable Members of Parliament. This also applies to the Bulgarian Parliament, this applies to the executive authority, where positions, positions are allocated to personal relationships, to the preferences of this or that, to political appropriateness. We find ourselves in a generic archaic political system, honourable Members, which unfortunately could not simply become a modern system in the European sense. I don't know if it's a cave-in, but it's falling downhill with terrible force, because in the same principle, Parliament and the judiciary are being constructed. On the same principle are the candidates for ministers and deputy ministers, senior positions in the state administration...................I dare not pronounce myself for the army, the military will say there how generals rise and how their titles are assigned to them. This is the Achilles' heel of the Bulgarian political system. It is not merely moral, it should not be subject to external monitoring, but should be found as a result of the general political and constitutional effort. It's not about the Attorney General, it's not about what it says in art. 117 I would not agree here either whether it is a question of interpretation, what it means, how the Prosecutor General methodically runs the prosecution. The question is much deeper, much more complex. I see no attitude in political parties to resolve this constitutional issue because it is a constitutional issue. Because the question is, if the judiciary is independent, why is the National Assembly exercising on it!? If the figure of the Attorney General is one that is chosen by the Supreme Competent Body in the area of the judiciary, and this is the Supreme Judicial Council, what do we want from the Prosecutor General within his 7-year term?! And why are the political authorities of the state constantly dealing with the chief prosecutor?! What are the reasons for this because he is not doing his job because he is being bribed because someone is using it? What are the reasons for this pointless constitutional scandal? What are the constitutional arguments, honourable Members? Without making the question clear, it cannot be resolved, because the question is not about control, because the question is not: exactly who is taking up this position at the moment. The question is: is Bulgaria a constitutional state, or is it not a constitutional state? And if Bulgaria is a constitutional state, then the division of the authorities should be a division of the authorities and the National Assembly cannot constantly deal with the Prosecutor General and the Supreme Judicial Council, to divide the colleges, to gather the colleges, to say who is up and who is not up, to read declarations! The authorities are therefore independent to work independently of each other within their professional and constitutional competences and to represent at the same time the single power in the Bulgarian state! This is what Parliament cannot achieve. Watching the work, watching the speeches, the positions of the parliamentary groups, I mean, I'm skeptical of whether this thing can be resolved in any way. Therefore, any unresolved issue will be used by the external forces of Bulgaria to suppress the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian government, by external institutions at any moment when they want this or that from Bulgaria! Therefore, we, the MPs, do not mean only this Chamber of the National Assembly, which concludes its work.... we are the people who are called to solve this issue from the point of view of the Bulgarian state interest! And that is why I support the veto of the President, because GERB is currently doing a tactical, I would say, maneuvering to external pressure! But I am not convinced that the next government of Bulgaria will not do the same, and the next majority will not do the same, although those who claim to become a majority at the moment often take similar positions; and that these issues are used only to come to power of one political party or another, without taking into account the state interest, the authority of the state institutions! I regret that we must end in such a tone and in such a sharp debate the current work of this Parliament, but I believe that GERB is currently implementing an anti-constitutional in their spirit, in their own sense and in their content amendment! There is no place for such a figure in the Bulgarian Constitution! At the same time, the opposition, whoever it was, must stop dealing with the judiciary, because the judiciary is defined in the Constitution as independent and its only parameters are its professional competence, the way the individual levels in the judiciary function! This is not the subject of square democracy, it is not the subject of choice by the crowd of the Prosecutor General, his deputies or the Supreme Judicial Council! We will become a modern state when everyone is minding their own business and everyone extends according to their competences, honourable Members. Political parties are in the National Assembly to represent the political interests of Bulgarian citizens in the field of legislation and to make laws that satisfy the interests of the majority of Bulgarian people! Not to deal with constitutional repairs every day, every week and to explain to international institutions what wonderful intentions we have to adjust ourselves in a way that even they do not know what they want from us!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u162	Get it over with, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u163	Thank you very much for your attention. Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u164	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I will refer specifically to the reasons put forward in the President's veto. I find the same as unfounded, inconclusive, incomplete, and in one part contradictory. I'm starting backwards. It is written as a motive for the return of the Law, a disregard for the principle of the adoption of the laws after public consultation and, notice, instead of talking about the specific law, there are quite other legislative acts, draft laws that have been proposed since 2019 to date. In practice, there are no grounds and no arguments as to why it was missing or in what way no public discussion of this law has taken place, which, of course, does not correspond to the truth. In today's debates there were quoted by the Presidential Council, the Supreme Judicial Council, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the public domain there were opinions and opinions received on the bill by representatives of the legal community, so we cannot in any case say that the principle of the adoption of the laws has been ignored after public discussion. This was carried out and such opinions were given in the course of the procedure for the adoption of the Bill. Next, the President points out that the principle of independence of the court has been violated, based on the thesis that the Specialized Criminal Court is an emergency court. This, of course, does not correspond to the truth for the simple reason that the judgment itself, which was cited in the ground, No 10 of 2011, in constitutional case No 6 of that year, in practice declared and stated that the Specialized Criminal Court was not an extraordinary court and did not violate the provisions of the Constitution. Moreover, in 2017 the Commission adopted a decision on the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter "the EEA Agreement'). It is rightly stated in the reasoning that the circle of crimes investigated by the Specialized Criminal Court was extended, with those carried out by MPs and magistrates, while this law also complements those carried out by the Prosecutor General or one of its alternates, claiming that the Court thus becomes exceptional. This would have been true and the President would have been sincere if he had made a request to the Constitutional Court to declare an unconstitutionality of the Specialized Criminal Court in 2017. However, it appears that then the Conjuncture was in agreement with the President and he did not make such a request. To date, we do not have a ruling of the Constitutional Court that the Specialized Criminal Court is the unconstitutional Court, we have a decision which, at this time, constitutes the permanent caselaw of the Court, namely that this Court is not extraordinary, but special, once, in view of the subject matter of the cases which it investigates, and the second time, in view of the persons. With regard to the other arguments, the fact that the obligation to conduct an effective investigation is being violated and that there would possibly be a dispute about the case of a local and family, this is not in practice the case, and it is evident from the practice of the Specialized Criminal Court. Such questions and similar cases have not come up, so we do not expect in this case to have any different practice than what is happening so far. Moreover, I believe that there are in fact sufficient guarantees in the Law to carry out precisely an effective investigation with an opportunity if the prosecutor investigating the Attorney General cannot carry out one or another action, he can assign it to investigators to carry out this action. Also irrelevant is the argument for violating the principle of independence of prosecutors. There are sufficient guarantees within the judiciary both in the nomination procedure and in the selection procedure of the Supreme Judicial Council, with a qualified majority provided for, with the possibility of nominating candidates. So I do not see how this argument of the President can be justified in the provisions of the Law. With regard to the thesis expressed both in these debates and in the general motive of the president's veto, that the so-called complex approach must be sought, I can say that the time for this has been missed by rejecting the decision to convene a Grand National Assembly to adopt a new Constitution. The only way within this constitutional model to solve overall problems related not only to the status of the Prosecutor General and his powers, but also to the activities of the Prosecutor's Office, generally going through constitutional changes. The only possible changes and the only possible solution is the current law, which is in line with the constitutional framework that is currently in force. If we wanted and had the will and, in particular, our opposition colleagues, to make some decisive reform in the prosecution, the moment was missed by rejecting the proposal that we tabled with our colleagues from GERB to convene a Grand National Assembly and adopting a new Constitution, which would enable these conceptual problems, which were discussed before me, to be resolved. We will not support the veto on the arguments that have been put forward, we will again support the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u166	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! For the first time since the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Kolevi v. Bulgaria is being delivered, we are currently debating seriously in relation to the Law on the Supplement to the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to draw attention to the Members of the National Assembly that this topic has been the focus of the attention of both the current National Assembly and the previous National Assembly and the Bulgarian public, but it was only today that a law proposed a possible solution was adopted. We have heard from the previous speakers that our European partners have made numerous recommendations, with concrete proposals. Yes, we have received numerous recommendations from both the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe, but let me draw attention to the fact that all these recommendations, honourable Members of the National Assembly, concerned serious changes that must be made in the constitutional model! To recall in 2015 was the last amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in the part of the Court of Justice. In the Bill which was tabled and which was adopted, as the Constitution enjoins, however, this topic was not affected. It was also not affected in any proposal tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Presidential Members on this topic. So, honourable MPs from BSP for Bulgaria, let's be honest and tell Bulgarian citizens that in order to achieve the judicial reform we all want to achieve [[What's she like?]] The debate must be held within the framework of amendments to the Constitution! And here I would agree with what Mr. Zablyanov said, yes, we must have a debate on amendments to the Constitution, but can we, by putting our hand on our heart today, say that we will achieve this consensus, honourable MPs?! In fact, let's get back to the topic of veto with which the Law on Supplement to the Code of Criminal Procedure was returned. I will not repeat what fellow Christian Mitev said. I just want to pay attention to some of the circumstances. Apparently, by drawing up these motives, their authors have missed many important amendments to the Bulgarian legislation. In the autumn of 2016, after the change I spoke about in the Constitution since the end of 2015, and in implementing recommendations that we received from our European partners then, in accordance with the adopted updated Strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, Strategy adopted by the National Assembly, it was quite clearly determined that the prosecution was no longer a centralised structure. It maintained its unity necessary to implement its constitutionally envisaged powers, honourable Members. However, the prosecution split with its pyramid structure, where every prosecutor was subordinate to the prosecutor above, and all prosecutors to the chief. In this way, the changes that have been made in the legislation in force have ensured this independence in the work of prosecutors as part of the judiciary. At the moment, there is no possibility of giving instructions beyond the legally defined cases. Let us note that it is only about the application of the Law. And this is a kind of guarantee of decision making entirely by internal conviction on the basis of the facts of the Law. Nor can the reasoning be shared that, in fact, with the introduction of judicial control over all the acts of the Prosecutor in the investigation against the Prosecutor General, we affect the independence of the Prosecutor himself in the investigation, as well as of his colleagues. Dear Members of the National Assembly, provided that such a specific figure is concerned, it is impossible that it, as part of the Prosecutor's Office, may be subject to appropriate control in relation to the decisions being taken. That is why we have complied with some of the recommendations we received in the debate on this bill and introduced this control, including with regard to the refusals to initiate criminal proceedings. To conclude, honourable Members, I would like to state our firm position that we will vote for the adoption of the Law because our position is clear from the introduction of this bill. Within the framework of the current Bulgarian Constitution, given that we could hardly reach a constitutional consensus, this is a possible legislative solution. I call on this House to vote on the adoption of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Honourable Members, I shall re-vote the Law supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by the National Assembly on 29 January 2021. Mrs. Angelkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u170	One person voted online. Vote 204 and 1 online.. become 205 votes:.... 124 in the Chamber plus 1 online............................................................................................... The motion is accepted. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within 7 days of receipt of it under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. We continue with the second item today's agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TERRITORY CONSTRUCTION OF 27 JANUARY 2021, RETURNED FOR A NEW DISCLOSURE WITH SAY No 36 OF 4 FEVRUARS 2021, OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TANK. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. With the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, Mr. Veselinov will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u171	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 36 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 5 February 2021, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area adopted by the National Assembly on 27 January 2021 and the reasons to the Decree At its meeting held on 11 February 2021, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed Decree No 36 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 5 February 2021, on a return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area adopted by the National Assembly on 27 January 2021 and the reasons of the Decree. The Commission meeting was attended by Mrs. Ivanka Ivanova, a legal advisor in the administration of the President of the Republic; representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; of Sofia Municipality and of professional and civil organizations. Mrs. Ivanka Ivanova presented to the Commission the President of the Republic's statement and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President returns the provisions of § 11, § 30, to the National Assembly for a new discussion. 6, § 35, § 46, p. 3 (on the new para. Art. 16 of art. Directive 2006/112/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2006 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 334, 27.11.2006, p. 1). In his motives, the President says he supports the legislator's efforts to improve the current legislation on the structure of the territory, investment design and construction. Welcomes the creation of a single public register for a structure of the territory, municipal registers for the properties which are subject to alienation and the introduction of an opportunity to appeal against the common planning plans in implementation of Constitutional Court Decision No 14 of 2020 on constitutional case No 2 of 2020. Shares the main part of the reasons set out by the Government in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on a structure of the territory, including the need to reduce the administrative burden for citizens and businesses, to fill certain legal gaps and to create legal prerequisites for exercising more effective control by the competent administrative authorities; In addition, the President considers that certain provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area remove the regulation from fundamental constitutional bases and reduce the intensity of the protection of the rights of citizens and legal persons. According to the President, by § 11 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, a new para is being created. 3 in art. 39 of the Law on Construction in the Area, which provides that the change of purpose of a building subject to education, science, health or culture requires prior written consent from the minister concerned. Upon hearing, the Minister shall be obliged to express written consent or refusal within 14 days. The refusal should be motivated. The proposed change is made without compelling reasons and is at risk of hampering law enforcement. Such concerns also apply to the amendments introduced under Paragraph 35 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Area concerning the permissions to amend the detailed planning plans when seeking a change in the purpose of regulated land estates of the State and municipalities which are subject to education, science, health or culture, as well as to sports sites. Here again, in the decision of the Minister, the principle of tacit consent adopted at the time is amended as part of the procedure for change of purpose. According to the President's motives, the principle of silent consent has been recognised as an important management decision to reduce the administrative burden for business and to combat corruption. This principle is also a means of facilitating the communication of citizens and legal entities with the administration and this amendment takes place a retreat from a conquered standard. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Construction of the Area introduces an opportunity for judicial appeal of the general planning plans (§ 30, item). 6 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area), but according to the President this possibility is unduly limited both during and from the point of view of the circle of authorized entities. The new al. Article 12 127 of the Law on Construction on the Area limits the period of appeal to 14 days from the promulgation in the Official Journal of the State Gazette of the act of approval or adoption of the general construction plan and the right to appeal will have only the owners of real estate directly affected by its predictions. The President considers that the assessment of the existence of an impact on the general design plan should belong to the court as part of the specific proceedings in which legal interest should be demonstrated. In this light, it finds that the imposed by § 30, t. 6 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Area restriction is unjustified and potentially jeopardises the fundamental constitutional principles for judicial review of the acts of the administration and the right to protection. According to the new para. Article 16 148 of the Law on Construction in the Area (§ 46, p. 3 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area) a building permit in a regulated land estate will only be issued under a detailed development plan applied with regard to regulation, including street regulation linking the site to the street or road network and providing access to the land property concerned. The President states that the idea of the legislator to allow the start of construction after implementing regulation should be supported. The application of street regulation is, however, the responsibility of the municipalities, which have the right to alienate property falling within the street regulation, for equal compensation for owners. The President considers that the new framework does not contain guarantees that this responsible task of municipalities will be strictly carried out, within time and in general interest, and instead creates prerequisites for limiting the right to build different entities. Under Paragraph 49 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Area relating to the Appendix in para. Art. 5 of art. 154 of the Law on Construction in the Area, the President considers that the prohibition provides grounds to believe that until its entry into force, the orders to supplement the issued building permits gave rise as a legal effect to the extension of the permits, and this does not find support in the current law. Representatives of civil and professional organisations have expressed support for the President's motives regarding the contested texts. On the part of Sofia Municipality there was strong support for the adopted amendments to the Law and arguments were put forward in support of the contested provisions. According to the MPs, the President's motives in one part are unacceptable and unfounded, and in another are contradictory. On the one hand, the President welcomes the introduction into the Law of the possibility of contesting the general planning plans, which so far does not exist, on the other, considers that the circle of persons who can challenge them is narrow. It should be borne in mind that the circle of interested parties cannot be left to the judgment of the Court. In the provisions in force of the Law on Construction in the Area, interested parties who may challenge the detailed planning are fully specified. Such an approach has also been taken by the legislator with regard to the general planning plans, taking into account also the Constitutional Court Decision No 14 of 2020 on Constitutional Case No 2 of 2020. According to the provisions of art. 103a, para. 1 of the General Development Plan shall comply with the predictions of the completed detailed design plans approved by the date of issue of the permissions for the development of the common construction plan. A change in the purpose, manner and nature of the construction of land properties for which an approved detailed development plan is available is allowed only for the construction of sites of public state property or public municipal property, as well as for the protection of public interests.. Protecting the environment and human health, protecting agricultural, forestry and protected areas and protected areas. It is these persons whose property with the general planning is envisaged to be different from their current regime and thus restrict their right to ownership that they are interested in contesting them. With regard to the changes made by § 11 and § 35, it should be borne in mind that these are not new provisions, as stated in the reasoning, as they are from 2009. An amendment has been made which introduces the official coordination of the change of purpose and the coordination regime has dropped the private property properties, as well as sports facilities and private property, thereby reducing the administrative and financial burden for citizens and businesses. The President's motives regarding the challenge of § 46 shall not be shared. 3 of ZYD of ZUT that the new framework he welcomes does not contain guarantees that municipalities will strictly fulfil their obligations to apply street regulation. The amendments to the Law on Municipal Property, made in the Transitional and Final Provisions of ZID of ZUT, introduced the obligation for municipalities to maintain a register of properties which are subject to alienation. In the register will necessarily be entered the site for the construction of which the property is intended for alienation and the detailed development plan on the basis of which the property is alienated. The supplement under § 49 does not create a regime other than the one before, and it shares the President's understanding that the regime is still such. However, due to the controversial accidental practice of the court, as well as in separate municipalities, the supplement brings clarity and prevents any abuse in the practice of implementing the Law. During the discussion in support of the president's veto, a statement was made by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes, 7 votes against, and no votes, is abstentioned, suggests to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area adopted on 27 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Shishkov, come in. Colleagues, we rested an hour ago and the rest will be after the vote on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! We are witnessing another presidential veto imposed within the current mandate. Returning laws from the presidential institution seemed to be self-inflicted and filling out statistics. However, what is different in this veto is that the President has repeatedly stated that he supports efforts to change legislation in the area of the structure of the territory, and at the same time returns several texts without clear motives and without specific proposals for clarification. I will allow myself to quote literally texts from the veto itself: I support the efforts of the legislator to improve the legislation in force in the area of the structure of the territory, investment design and construction. I welcome the establishment of a single public register for the structure of the territory, municipal registers for the properties which are subject to alienation, and the introduction of an opportunity to appeal against the general planning plans in implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision. I share the main part of the reasons set out by the Government in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Structure of the Area, including the need to reduce the administrative burden for citizens and businesses, to fill certain legal gaps and to create legal prerequisites for exercising more effective control by the competent administrative authorities. However, I will allow myself to comment on the details of all the texts returned by the President, and I am aware that the matter is extremely dry and uninteresting, but for the sake of being objective, I will make comments on each of the texts. As regards the wording of § 11 and § 35. The two paragraphs are identical and the main objective of the amendment is to reduce and fix deadlines for the decision of the minister concerned, which is, of course, for the benefit of the interested parties, as well as the introduction of official coordination, which reduces the administrative burden. The basic concept of the norm is maintained by introducing another relief, in line with the proposals of the representatives of the industry, namely for changing the purpose of private property sports sites, the requirement for coordination with the Minister, as has been so far, is also a huge step in overcoming unnecessary administrative procedures. Similarly, the rules in § 35, where the reduction of administrative burden is even more tangible, are determined. The Minister's opinion will only be required in the event of a change in the detailed planning plans of property owned by the State or municipalities established for objects of education, science, health or culture, as well as for sports facilities and facilities. From this hypothesis, all private properties are once again dropped, which is also a huge step forward, and is also a proposal from branch organizations. With regard to the President's concerns regarding the withdrawal of the silent consent and its replacement by the substantive ruling within half a reduced period, they are unfounded. Silent consent is not a panacea for the fight against corruption. It solves problems in part, but in itself, without being bound by other norms, it cannot achieve the necessary effect. In this case, we are talking about replacing one institute with another, with the replacement being entirely for the benefit of the interested parties. With regard to the returned texts concerning the appeal of the general planning plans, I would reiterate that the President welcomes this measure, which is in the implementation of a Constitutional Court decision. Of course, the appeal period was an occasion for comments and numerous discussions, and there could always be sufficient arguments for the appeal and against the appeal. However, I cannot agree with the President's claim that the assessment of the existence of an involvement of the General Planning Plan must belong to the court. It's legal nonsense and absurd. The circle of stakeholders is determined by the Law. Such is the philosophy of the Law on the Construction of the Territory in all its provisions and this is the norm that follows it too. The Court shall determine the admissibility of the appeal as well as the persons concerned on the basis of the Law. It is definitely not true that the restriction imposed is unjustified and potentially jeopardises the fundamental constitutional principles of judicial review of the acts of the administration and the right to protection. On the contrary, the hypothesis in the Bill clearly defines the circle of stakeholders, and it is wide enough and guarantees the right of ownership of Bulgarian citizens. With regard to the returned provision in art. 148, para. 16, namely, a building permit to be issued after implementing regulation, here again I would like to emphasise the President's support to this norm. I quote literally: The idea of the legislator to allow the start of construction after the implementation of regulation should be supported. " However, this is the text that raised the most comments and doubts about problems in its implementation. Here I could share that much of the concerns of the professional community have their reasons, because private cases could indeed arise in the implementation which, after the necessary analysis, be corrected, but in any case, should be given a chance to this text. Among other things, no alternative texts by the professional community were proposed during the discussions, none by the President. It is obvious that it is difficult to solve this problem, but also the time in which some of the regulation plans have come into place cannot go on, it loses its meaning by preparing and approving such ones. Therefore, it is necessary that this bold step be taken, supported and carefully followed and analyzed its implementation. With regard to the texts in art. 154, para. 5 again completely vague and incomprehensible are the President's motives for returning this provision. The aim of the change is to end a vicious practice and misinterpretation by some administrations, especially after the caselaw was established. In no case do the President's reasoning find support in the law in force. There is no way for a future norm to have a legal effect on the actions already carried out. My fellow Members, I will allow myself a few final words, as this will most likely be my last statement under the Law on Structure of the Territory in this National Assembly. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all industry organisations, who have become an active participant in the drafting of the Law in recent years, although their proposals have not always been accepted unconditionally. Communication with the industry is a step in the right direction and I very much hope that this line of conduct will be continued in the next parliament. With regard to the Law, I believe that the guild has already matured on the idea of adopting a brand new law. This law was written more than 20 years ago and in most of its texts are archaic and not applicable. With all due respect to the authors of the Law, some of whom I know personally, I believe he played his important role in the development of the country and it is time to be sent to a well-deserved holiday, as happened with the ZTSU 20 years ago. As often my children joke with me that I am from the last century and I cannot understand them, so the Law is incomprehensible to many of the young colleagues. It is archaic philosophy and changed social relations that imposes the many patches that have been made in recent years. But we all know that an old building, no matter how much we towel it, will always have leaks and problems. Each patch creates an additional ulcer. Therefore, personally, I fully support the concept adopted by the Chamber of Architects for a new law, which is based on very different principles and plays, which will change diametrically investment design and construction in the country. I conclude my speech wishing that this will be the main task of the next parliament and I wish for the fruitful work of the future MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u175	Madam President, honourable Members! At the beginning of my speech, I will call on you to support the President's veto. Why? The President does not, in principle, deny these texts in his motives, but insists that they be put to a wider public discussion. A short time ago, our colleague did an analysis of the motives that the President proposed as justified for the return of the Law and maintaining this veto. You said good words about the branch organizations, you praised them, but you didn't comply with the texts they objected to. You should have analyzed their objections as well. Moreover, a concrete majority in the adoption of the Law against themselves was not humiliated to make the relevant proposals, and this is what you found earlier that, despite the objections, they hardly agreed with the texts that were laid down in this law. What caused the veto? From the objections of the Chamber of Architects, of the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Planning, of the designer branch organizations, of the House of geodesists. I just don't know how the Diocese Council of the Armenian Church didn't go against this law, apparently it doesn't know what kind of trouble it's gonna cause. You said, Mr. Shishkov, give this text a chance. What does it mean? So let's try this text, and when we make a mistake, we'll probably cancel it out of popular practice in the legislative work of this National Assembly in the last four years. I want to move on. What are we doing? The Constitutional Court ruled on the non-pity of common planning. Surrounding this decision, however, and pretending to be great Democrats, we give only the people whose properties are affected the opportunity to appeal to these common planning plans. What about the overall impact on this general design plan, for example, in preserving the clean air, clean water and order, a number of other things that are related to the quality of the life of an ordinary citizen? In other words, it is deprived of fundamental constitutional rights to be able to mourn in the appropriate order what is envisaged in these common planning plans. For the silent consent, you said it was not an element of the fight against corruption. And is delaying files an element of corruption, is it a signal to anyone that they should take other actions, as is usually the case in life? And you won't deny all that. And with regard to changing the purpose of buildings from sports, education and other activities, I would like to give you an example. For years in Bulgaria, buildings of schools over two thousand by one statistic, in the last ten years are 800, stand as monuments of stupidity and destruction. If anyone hasn't seen them, order them, I'll be his tour guide, show them halfway across the country and show them to them. Why is this happening? This subsequently becomes a heavy burden for municipalities that have to take fireproof measures for these buildings, they have to guard them, they have to throw money into the sand, because the costs of such buildings are like pouring water into the sand, it will go nowhere, it will sink and bureaucracy sits tight for years and prevents municipalities from selling them or seeking another solution for their future. They are in areas where there is no population, the population is extremely ageing, the population is practically gone. And what are we keeping these monuments for? I have repeatedly asked the Minister of Education why this is happening. If, for example, the mayor of a municipality has such a school, he goes and asks the minister for consent. But he asked him, "What are you going to do there?" He doesn't know what he's doing there. It must first release the status of this building as an educational infrastructure and then, in the appropriate order, after a competition, of a concession and so on, decide how this building should be committed, sold or otherwise sold. He is practically placed in Paragraph 22.. they want him something that will happen in the future, to present him in advance! It's one of the big gaps. I hope in the new LU, where these points are affected, indeed, if there is one, this thing will be changed, because I light in this mandate and in these legislative decisions on this particular issue do not see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u176	You've strayed slightly from the veto, Mr. Genov, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u177	Did you just notice? Whoa!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u178	I have long noticed it, however, because of my excessive sympathy for you, I have decided not to restrict your freedom of speech. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines to Mr. Genov's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. That's why I see people without masks. Please, put it on! Mr. Veselinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with the fact that this bill amending the Law on the Construction of the Area includes, I think, exactly 96 paragraphs. This is perhaps the biggest change of the LU in the direction of reducing administrative burdens, both for citizens and for legal entities, and when we talk often about reform or lack of reform, I believe that this is a bold attempt at reform in this particular area. We have relieved very many citizens with regard to complementary construction, where no projects will be required with regard to sheds, wells and so on, where construction authorisation will not be required at all in terms of change of purpose, where so far complete sets of projects have been requested, even without carrying out construction activities. That is one thing, I can say, a very good law for both citizens, and with regard to administrative service and control, this is also recognised by the President in his motives. In fact, these few points, which he disputes, do not question them in substance again, but because of certain fluctuations and, I dare say, a misunderstanding of the texts or the history of the texts that have been adopted. Firstly, I would like to say a few words regarding the lack of public discussion. This bill was tabled in mid-summer and was adopted at the beginning of the year " mid-January," that is, during all this time, the Commission on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government was holding a debate with all stakeholders - both formal debates in the framework of Commission meetings and debates outside Commission meetings, where the different professional communities can safely express their opinions, a large part of the texts that NGOs proposed were adopted. That is, in my view, in this regard, we have had exemplary behaviour as a legislator, and we may not have accepted all the arguments of non-governmental organisations, at all, of people who are professionally involved in this area, but in any case we have heard them, assessed them and accepted what corresponds, of course, to our internal belief. I don't share the thesis on the concrete majority. I think that the meeting took place in a collegiate spirit and in the adoption of many texts, including by colleagues from BSP. Everything that was useful was accepted. I think that's always been the policy of our committee. With regard to the vicious practice of MPs between first and second readings to make legislative proposals outside the texts. I think that in this regard both the Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly are clear and they give the Members of the National Assembly rights to a legislative initiative when they are within the framework of this law. We have not opened any other laws, we have not resorted to ways that are unusual parliamentary practice. However, I do not believe that the legislative chance to reopen the debate in view of the short term of life of this National Assembly. If we do not repeat the Law now, nor will this change happen, for which the President may insist, but on this, we will have the damage that these texts, which are, by design, and according to him, good, and as a good direction, will not act. This, of course, applies to the appeal of the general planning plans, which we must note that we have actually interpreted the wording of art. 103a of the Law on the Construction of the Area. We have fully complied with the Constitutional Court's decision, which, in its motives, is based on this wording and says, of course, that the detailed arrangements in force are being implemented and, when there is an amendment, a restriction on the owner of these parcels, it should have, the legislator should have, to give it the opportunity, to appeal to its interests concerned. So we one-to-one have transferred the Constitutional Court's thesis into the Law. Whether the deadline should be 14 days or a month, I think it is not so important because, if we do not accept, we do not reaffirm now with our decision this text will simply remain the lack of an opportunity to appeal at all. So in my opinion, this is a very strong motive for the need to support the Law in its current form and, life and health, if the next National Assembly wishes to deal again with these hypotheses, to do so, of course, within the framework of the normal legislative initiative. Frankly, a lot of the motives I had prepared, Mr. Shishkov said, so I'll save it. In general, the law is good. With regard to the thesis that changing the purpose of school buildings is defined here, I would like to say categorically that this is not the case. On the contrary, here we have a very fast procedure in which the owner of the building writes to the minister, receives a 14-day response and we actually have no delay here. Others are the regulations which create an obstacle to municipalities, but they are not within the scope of this law. That's what I wanted to say in a nutshell. My opinion, as well as the opinions of the institutions that worked under this law, namely the Ministry of Regional Development, the DNCK, Sofia Municipality, is in one direction the Law should be supported. Not just give the lyrics a chance to work, but these are good texts, in a good direction. We cannot allow the continuation of building permits in the naked field, so to speak, when people, for example, buy something in a picture that should be an apartment, then face the harsh reality that there is no way to reach it. This is one of the assumptions that is being appealed, and I think it is absolutely correct. We, as legislator, have found a solution to this hypothesis. If this decision needs to be refined and further worked, I say again, the legislator in the next term can rework it. My call to all MPs is to reject the veto and adopt the Law because it gives additional administrative relief to citizens and companies and further creates guarantees for control.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u181	My line is to Mr. Vesselinoff. If this is the case for schools, Mr. Veselinov, explain to me why there are two thousand buildings that are currently crumbling and resemble creepy ghosts - because of this simplified procedure that there is, because of this quick statement that goes to the owner, or for other reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u182	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Veselinov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u183	I'll take a joke. Perhaps they are still waiting for the silent consent of these municipalities, while there is a clear deadline here and is introduced for the first time as a procedure. The truth is that the legal framework of the Ministry of Education is an obstacle to the realization of these schools and this has nothing to do with the Law on Construction in the Area.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u184	Thank you. It's Mr. Nenkov's next speech. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The issue of the Law on Structure in the territory that we are discussing today, and the veto imposed by the President, I can qualify it with more subjective motives for his return to parliament to re-examine it than objective ones. And although in recent years the President has shown that he does not respect the Bulgarian Parliament, we have nevertheless quite carefully read its motives and treat it with the necessary seriousness. Of course, the Law on Structure of the Area is not the most political law, it is not a law that causes the most interest from society, the media, but ultimately it is perhaps one of the most essential laws that directly influences the lives of every citizen, of every single person who is willing to do business. And there probably isn't one person in this room or outside of it who hasn't faced what the law says. I therefore believe that this is indeed an essential, fundamental law. The President's motives will start from there, clearly show that the President and his experts accept the vision and philosophy of the Law. Because of what my colleague Zarkov said earlier: about twenty-eight vetos or something like that, I'm beginning to think that this veto mechanism is rather a search for some subjective element for political gain than a real concern from the Presidency about whether the Law is good or not. If carefully, and I said just now that we have carefully read the motives, even in the very preamble of the motives, it is said that this is the right step. Mr. Veselinov also mentioned a moment ago that it was not about one or two paragraphs, but it was about over 90 paragraphs, for which for a very long time we have worked very hard to achieve the best solutions where possible, where we do not seek consensus. In fact, some of the texts have been delayed too much for this purpose. I cannot agree, I cannot agree with the fact that there was almost, first of all, not enough public discussion. Perhaps the Presidency is not aware of how these debates have been held, because all industry organizations have been present many times, both formal and informal, in the meetings of the Commission. We have returned to some texts that we had even adopted in the second vote, just to find some compromise or at least try to do so. I dare say that we have made a good law, which, of course, time will show whether or not it has its defects. Of course, no one claims perfection, and if it were that simple, there would probably be no need for parliament to sit constantly, but only when necessary. There is therefore no way to accept the thesis that these texts have not been adopted with broad public consultation. The second point, which I question in terms of the reasons by which the Law has been returned, is that almost between the first and second voting texts have been included, which the MPs have no right to do so. However, by this logic, we can actually challenge or say: well, then why does the president veto? Same logic. It is the right of each Member of the National Assembly to make such proposals, even the Rules of Procedure, to make such proposals in the Commission itself. So I cannot agree with one such motive that if you see between first and second votes there is no way to make such proposals. I will now go through the four paragraphs that have been returned, but before that I would like to say that the Law itself regulates very important steps in overcoming certain administrative obstacles for citizens and businesses. Therefore, the most elementary... with regard to the most famous paragraphs. For example, when people are remodeling from a hairdresser's lounge to some other kind of business, not to require projects, not to go through this long procedure. The creation of such a register for a structure in the territory is a very important step in e-government. Moreover, if we look at the fullness and accordingly, the paragraphs that are subsequently returned by the President, the same Single Information Register will serve as a basis for people to take account of and know, more or less, when will the respective territories destined for street regulation be alienated. So the Law concerns very important, very essential elements, and indeed this is one of the most serious changes that have been made in recent years. It wasn't for a reason that for almost a year we prepared this law. Now I'm going to go through these four paragraphs, which have already been shared by the negotiators. By § 11 why is the silent consent sought? I believe that in both ways, whether there is a silent consent or not, there is ultimately always a corruption risk. But in the end, we introduce a much clearer set of rules on how to make such adjustments, so that there are specific deadlines within which the respective minister in charge may have the opportunity and the obligation rather to refuse and that he is motivated or to authorise the change of purpose. This, in my opinion, is entirely for the benefit of the citizens. In § 30 for the possibility of appealing the general planning plans. Colleagues, so far there has been no such possibility, and the fact that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court and we have fully complied with it is exactly so. In his motives, the President says the following: that Parliament should not, by law, determine stakeholders who may appeal to the general planning plans and quote a member of the Constitution accordingly. Only when we open to art. 120, para. 2 of the Constitution, it says that any administrative act can be appealed by the interested parties or by those explicitly mentioned in a law. We cannot expect, then, that the court, without having a legislative basis, may determine or not determine which parties are concerned. Moreover, my understanding of the general planning plans at all for a device in the territory should ultimately have an appeal. There must be this element, but it must still be from people or organisations that are directly related to the respective change of territory. It cannot, should not, and, unfortunately, often speculate on this possibility to appeal certain administrative acts by people who have no bearing at all on the relevant administrative act, moreover, of course, this slows down to a large extent the investment processes in the country. I can't agree to that motive. § 46 for street regulation. This may be the most interesting paragraph. I dare say that this paragraph, which gives the opportunity, which actually says that you cannot have a building permit unless street regulation is applied. What it means in practice is that this paragraph protects citizens. Because this paragraph guarantees that no citizen will buy a corresponding home in one picture and then turn out to have neither street nor appropriate infrastructure. He goes out to protests and says: "No one has made us the street! " - Yes, but to make the street the municipality must first be alienated. Therefore, this text is a guarantee. It's not made that much for business, it's made for citizens. And by connecting it with another paragraph, which is not, of course, a veto object, which says that the object cannot be put into operation if there is no such infrastructure already built, I dare say that this is exclusively for the benefit of every Bulgarian citizen who wishes to buy the corresponding dwelling. Yes, many people say: the problem is more in Sofia. Yes, it is, but Sofia is also the biggest investment interest. There are probably over two million people living here, so the seriousness requires that we also approach the texts that we apply quite responsibly. But excluding Sofia, in the end every citizen needs this thing, every citizen wants to live in a normal environment. You can't get to your apartment on a mud street. So for me, this is the right option, perhaps for the future, perhaps the next National Assembly should consider some mechanism that has very precise and clearly defined rules.......................in what deadlines this street should possibly be alienated. There is more predictability, of course, for investors and respectively for municipalities to seek the financial mechanism how to secure this. And on the last paragraph, which was referred to in § 49, under art. 154, para. 5 in relation to whether, in the event of a change of the investment project, this would automatically permit several more years of the project to renew the construction permit, respectively. I dare say that the President's arguments are not valid, because so far, if you carefully read para. 153 and 154, you will see that there is a very clear and categorical definition of the conditions under which you can renew your building permit... only with an explicit request to the authority that issued it or the change of the investment project in the course of the construction does not in any way alter the duration of the construction permit. However, since there is certainly a controversial practice, we, as legislator, are obliged, and this has been done many times by Parliament, to give a very precise and legal definition, so as not to come to such contradictory practices, I speak from chief architects and from different types of courts. Colleagues, I'm going to ask you all to back up the law. A great deal of work has been done to create it. I think it is aimed entirely at citizens, at easing the administrative burden, at easing the various procedures. And another important thing that I almost forgot to mention, much better defined in a construction process who is responsible for what and what his powers are, so that we really have a much better investment climate and everyone knows their responsibilities. I call on you to reinstate the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u186	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. It's Mr. Bonev's next speech. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, we fully support the presidential veto imposed in the section on the four paragraphs, as well as the President's actions on the protection of the public interest. We have heard speeches in support of reducing the administrative burden, the philosophy of the Law, we have heard the mention of repealed laws, we have heard that the ZUT is no longer fulfilling its purposes. Yeah, the ZUT is one of the most correct laws over 110 amendments there are in the Law on Structure of the Area. It may not be perfect, but over the years it has proven to function and that the entire investment and development process in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is taking place on the basis of it. For the veto veto. Two are basically the paragraphs that are the subject of the veto. One paragraph is about the so-called street regulation and if it is not of interest to all Members of the National Assembly in this House, only after maybe one or two weeks will most of us face precisely the need to make investment intentions to build, if you will, and garages in our own properties, but this will not be allowed to them. They will not be allowed due to the fact that they will be obliged to execute at their own expense a street which is the duty of the municipality or the State. And I do not see how to reduce the administrative burden of establishing the rights of every Bulgarian citizen at his expense to fulfil the duties of the municipalities. This is perhaps the most scandalous and controversial text of the 96 paragraphs adopted by the ZUT. Yes, there are good suggestions. And in the veto it is described that there are texts that might give rise to something else. But what we see, what we have heard, namely, that: let us accept it, then we will see what the demand will be. This is not an approach, this is not the way to structure this whole process. There is no way through the problems of Sofia Municipality to throw into chaos investment design throughout the country. It is clear to everyone that apartments are bought by picture, only that everyone makes their choice. You can't buy an apartment in a picture with a clear mind that there's no street in front of it. And there's no way you can get the owner, the contracting entity, the investor or any of the investment process to build facilities for operating companies. How do you prove that one street is complete? In case of asphalt, maybe?! What if it's gravel, what if it's a different faction? So, I call on you, show some sense, support the presidential veto. A veto that is necessary. We still have technological time to make the appropriate adjustments so that we can ultimately guarantee the rights of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u188	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there lines? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Ending Debate
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u189	Colleagues, please take your seats. We will wait for our colleagues to take their seats.. Let us allow all colleagues to express their votes. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area adopted by the National Assembly on 27 January 2021. Mrs. Angelkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u191	Vote 179 MPs and one voice remotely..it becomes 180: for 121 in the hall plus one remote..it becomes 122, against 57, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Thus, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area has been re-approved. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within seven days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Colleagues, half an hour's rest. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u192	Everyone, please take your seats. We're going to continue our work. We move to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FILM-INSTRUCTION, No 002-01-68. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020, adopted at the first vote on 4 December 2020. The Committee on Culture and Media will be presented by Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Film Industry Act No 002-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020, adopted in the first vote on 4 December 2020. The Law on the Film Industry amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal from the National Representative Velislava Krasteva. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in the relevant systematic locations. Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 17. A proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place. A proposal from the MP Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... Art. 3. (1) This law aims at validating the Bulgarian film industry as the leading cultural industry of Bulgarian culture through: 1. sustainable increase in the production of Bulgarian films and films with Bulgarian participation, including series; 2. creation of conditions for state support of the Bulgarian film industry; 3. providing conditions for the creation and dissemination of the highly artistic works of Bulgarian film works; 4. preserving the existing values of Bulgarian film culture by creating the necessary conditions for the preservation and presentation of the cinematographic heritage; 5. development of European and international cooperation in the field of film industry; 6. Expand the audience's access to film creation and popularization of Bulgarian cinema in the country and abroad. (2) The basic principles of state policy for the development and support of the Bulgarian film industry are: 1. equal treatment and protection of the right of free expression of artists and professional organisations and legal persons with activity in the field of film industry; 2. protection of intellectual property in the field of film industry; 3. support and promote the creativity of new talents, young authors and prominent artists in the field of film art; 4. accessibility, publicity and transparency of the state support of the film industry; 5. protection of the rights and interests of the spectators. Under § 2, there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2: ..................................................... Article 4 is amended as Art. 4. The state conducts a policy for the support and development of the Bulgarian film industry in cooperation with artists, professional organizations and legal entities with activity in the film industry. Under § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 9. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." it provides a reasoned proposal to the Minister of Culture for the amount of State support for the implementation of the national policy in the field of film industry; b) the current t. 2 becomes t. 3; c) the current t. 3 becomes t. 4 and in it the words........................................................................................... 19th para. 1 and the register of state support for production, distribution and showed the films....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 15, para. 1 and a register under art. 19th para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (d) the so-called t. 4 and 5 are respectively t. 5 and 6; (e) the current t. 6 is going to be t. 7 and is amended as follows: "7." interacts with professional organisations and legal entities with film industry and collective management companies in the film industry in the country; (f) Previous t. 7 and 8 are respectively t. 8 and 9; (g) the current t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 10 and in it the words the professional and professional organizations of filmmakers are replaced by the professional organizations in the field of film industry. (h) the so-called t. 10 " 13" becomes respectively. 11 (i) the current t. 14 becomes t. 15 and in it the words "Bureau MEDIA" "Bulgaria" are replaced by "Creative Europe" - "Creative Europe" - "Media" - "Creative Europe." 2. In para. 5 words................................................................................. 26, para. 1, t. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 26, para. 1, t. 1.. 4 and Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Toma Bikov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The following advisory and expert bodies shall be established to the Executive Director of the Agency: 1. National Art Commissions for Project Assessment: (a) under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 as follows: (aa) for feature films; (bb) for documentaries; (c) for cartoons; (b) under art. 26, para. 1, t. 6 as follows: (aa) for feature films within the meaning of § 1, point 32 of the additional provision; (bb) for documentaries within the meaning of § 1, point 32 of the additional provision; (c) for animated films within the meaning of § 1, point 32 of the additional provision. 2. National Commission for evaluation of projects for reimbursement of expenditure under art. 26, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. National Committee for the Distribution of Films under Art. 26, para. 1, t. 3; 4. National Commission for Festivals and Cultural Events under art. 26, para. 1, t. 4; 5. National Committee for Categorisation; 6. National Technical Commission; 7. Financial committee; 8. Admission committee. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Toma Bikov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 5: .................................................................................. Article 9 is amended as follows: Art. 9. (1) National Council for Cinema shall be established to the Minister of Culture as an advisory and expert body. (2) The National Film Council shall be appointed for a period of two years by order of the Minister of Culture and shall consist of 13 members, including a Chair. In the composition of the council on a proposal of professional organizations and legal entities entered in the register under art. 19th para. 1 includes representatives in the field of production of gaming, documentaries and cartoons, including series, distribution, promotion and show of films. The Executive Director of the Agency shall be appointed as Chairman of the Council. (3) For members of the council shall be appointed persons with higher education with an educational and qualification degree of Master who have at least 5 years of professional experience in the field of film industry. The same person may not participate in the National Film Council for more than two consecutive terms. (4) The National Film Council shall assist and advise the Minister of Culture by: 1. develop and propose to the Minister of Culture for the Promotion of the National Program for the Development of the Film Industry; the program is for a period of 5 years and contains analysis and assessment of the state, objectives, priorities and measures for achieving them, the necessary resources and sources of funding; 2. give an opinion on proposals by the Executive Director of State support under art. 6, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. develop, discuss and propose draft regulations in the field of the film industry; 4. Offers Bulgarian film for presentation of European and world competitions and nominations. Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Toma Bikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Maria Tsvetkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6: ........................................................... Article 10 is amended as Art. 10. (1) National artistic committees shall be appointed by order of the Executive Director of the Agency for a period of 6 months. Each of the committees under art. 8, para. 1, t. 1 (a) (b) and point (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) shall consist of 7 members with proven experience in film production, of which two directors, producer, screenwriter, operator, actor and film critic, entered in the register under art. 15, para. 1 and determined by lot of the register. Each of the committees under art. 8, para. 1, t. 1 (a) (b) (b) and (b) (b) (b) shall consist of 7 members with proven experience in film production, of which two directors, producer, two writers, operator and film critic, entered in the register under art. 15, para. 1 and determined by lot of the register. Each of the committees under art. 8, para. 1, t. 1 (a) (b) and 1 (b) (b) (b) (c) shall consist of 7 members with proven experience in animated film production, of which two directors, two producers, a screenwriter and two artists in animated cinema, recorded in the register of art. 15, para. 1 and determined by lot of the register. They shall examine and evaluate projects under the criteria under art. 27, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 5 or 6 and qualify them as state aid by a reasoned decision for each project. (2) The National Commission for the Evaluation of projects for reimbursement shall be appointed by order of the Executive Director of the Agency for a period of one year. The Commission consists of 5 members, of which one expert from the Ministry of Culture, one expert from the Ministry of Tourism, one expert from the Agency and two producers entered in the register under art. 15, para. 1 and determined by lot of the register. It shall carry out a verification of projects for the existence of the cultural criteria under art. 35f, para. 2, p. 2 and gives an opinion approving or not approving any project for reimbursement. (3) The National Committee for Film Distribution shall be appointed by order of the Executive Director of the Agency for a period of one year. The Commission shall consist of 5 members of which 4 members proposed by legal persons entered in the register under art. 19th para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 and determined by lot of the register, and one expert from the agency. It examines and evaluates projects according to the criteria under art. 27, para. 4 and ranked them for state support with a reasoned solution for each project. (4) The National Commission for Festivals and Cultural Events shall be appointed by order of the Executive Director of the Agency for a period of one year. The Commission consists of 5 members, of which one expert from the agency, one producer and one director entered in the register under art. 15, para. 1 and designated by lot of the register, and one representative of professional organisations and legal persons entered in the register under art. 19th para. 1, t. 3 and 4 and determined by lot of the register. It examines and evaluates projects according to the criteria under art. 27, para. 5 and 6 and ranked them for state support with a reasoned solution for each project. (5) Where the composition of a commission cannot be completed under the conditions laid down in para. 1 "4', the quota concerned shall be filled in at random by lot with a person in the relevant register. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. Under § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 8: ................................................................................... Article 11 is amended as follows: Art. 11. (1) The National Committee for Categorisation shall be appointed for a period of two years by order of the Executive Director of the Agency. It is organized in 5 compositions consisting of 5 members. (2) Each Chamber of the Committee under para. 1 shall consist of: 1. expert from the Ministry of Culture; 2. an educator with 5 years of teaching experience appointed by the Ministry of Education and Science; 3. a film critic entered in the register under art. 15, para. 1 and determined by lot from the register; where this condition cannot be fulfilled, the quota shall be filled in randomly by lot with a person in the register; 4. expert from the agency; 5. a psychologist with 5 years of professional experience proposed by professional organization of psychologists in Bulgaria. (3) The National Committee for Categorization defines and offers the category of films, including series, which are to be distributed and/or displayed in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs to create a new § 8a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 12 is amended as follows: Art. 12. (1) The National Technical Commission shall be appointed by order of the Minister of Culture on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Agency for a period of two years. It shall consist of 5 members of which: 1. two image experts; 2. two sound experts; 3. an expert in cinema and video technology. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 1 and supports it under para. 2. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (2) The National Technical Commission shall assess the technical quality of the completed films, including series, received state support under this law, and shall give recommendations for their preservation by the National Film Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u194	That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u195	I just want to do a security clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u196	You're a little late, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u197	No, I did it on purpose.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u198	Okay. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u200	Access mode in the hall. Vote, please, for Deputy Minister Rumen Dimitrov. Vote 100 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dimitrov, please take his assigned seat in the hall. I am now opening discussions on the name of the bill, as well as paragraphs 1 to 8 and a new § 9. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, for the record, I would like to declare any personal interest and possible conflict of interest, as I am a filming actor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u202	Personal interest is enough, you have no conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u203	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a historic moment for Bulgarian cinema. This law has not changed substantially since 2003. After the changes in three different schemes the annual budget for Bulgarian cinema will exceed 40 million. lv. I am grateful to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs for the sign and the desire for care for Bulgarian cinema. [[GERB raging]] This bill guarantees much more work for talented Bulgarian artists and for all people who work in the industry, and much more and better Bulgarian films, I am confident of that. For more than two years I have worked for this cause, namely this bill to happen, and in the best possible way. The bill not only increases the money for Bulgarian cinema, it strengthens the control over the financing, the quality of the films, changes the way for the appointment of the artistic committees, which will lead to the selection of better and diverse scenarios and will enable more Bulgarian directors and producers to be financed. Through control, the bill greatly reduces the chances of corruption in the film industry. This bill gives direction to cinema, which has high artistic value, but is also directed to viewers. Because I'm convinced that any art should be directed...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u204	Mr. Budinov, excuse me, but we are at the second reading of the specific texts if you have suggestions or arguments on them. Your speech is suitable for first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u205	Dear Mr. President, it is aimed at the philosophy of the Law and at all the members who...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u206	You missed that, you should have done it in the first vote. Now what paragraph are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u207	All the paragraphs so far have been affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u208	At the same time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u209	I just want to say a few more words because I think this is really a historic moment for Bulgarian cinema. I would especially like to congratulate all colleagues from absolutely all the political parties represented in the 44th National Assembly, with whom we worked together as a team. Colleagues, thank you for showing visually and fully how the Union makes the power, thank you for your unification, tireless work and your love for Bulgarian cinema. I thank the legislative referees of the National Assembly for all the great work and understanding of Iva Miteva and Anna Emanuilova. I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media the big, global artist Vejdi Rashidov! Thank you, Eyebrows, for always seeking the dialogue and respecting the opinions of all artists and all working in, to put it mildly, the particular guild. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u210	I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u211	Good, because it's really important, Mr. Chairman. This bill is a sign that politicians have the will to make culture a priority. I hope that in the next National Assembly this will continue even more strongly and I say to you: there is a great sense here, in this Chamber among the MPs, that there are also people of art. At the risk of overdoing it, I will say: I love you and today I am incredibly happy! Today is a big day for Bulgarian cinema and Bulgarian culture...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u212	Mr. Budinov, I'm imposing a disciplinary measure on you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u213	Thank you for your attention. Don't be shy and vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u214	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Rashidov! I'm making Mr. Budinov's line at two points. First of all, every actor has filmed or is likely to film, so this personal explanation that Mr. Budinov does not participate in the vote is absolutely irrelevant. The fact that he's making some movie that's going to the media right now is not an argument at all. Things are much more serious here. They're legislative, and they have nothing to do with who, where they're filming right now. Secondly, I am extremely tired of the rabble, which was the main thread in Mr. Budinov's speech with thanks to the Prime Minister, to the government of the Republic of Bulgaria, naturally and legally to the chairman of our committee, the world artist Vecdi Rashidov and not a word about how consent was achieved in the Commission to move things from a difficult and critical point of view to a legislative fact. I am disappointed and ashamed of your speech, Mr. Budinov. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u216	Are there any other lines? The line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u217	I would also like to say something about this. Indeed, the Commission has agreed with all the political forces with a very good will on the part of all, including organisations and associations involved in film production, a large part of them, and all have made huge efforts and enormous efforts in such a short time to amend this law to make it practical because at first reading we all had a lot of comments on the Bill. I will take advantage of thanking not only on my behalf, but also on behalf of GERB members in this committee, especially to colleagues from the opposition of BSP and the DPS, with whom we have reached a consensus. Such consensus is very rare.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u218	Mr. Bikov, you're making a statement, not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u219	I'm sorry I strayed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u220	What was the disagreement on the substance of Mr. Budinov's statement after repeating his these? Take a statement, make a statement and state your position. Will you have the back? Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Mr. Rashidov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues! Look, no offense, it's for gratitude, because there's reason to thank, and it doesn't happen every day in this room. As President of the Commission, I will take a few words to make a summary of a difficult bill. We have witnessed an unprecedented law for the last 30 years, which for the first time provides Bulgarian film production funds that have not been used before. When I took over the Ministry of Culture 10 years ago with a movie budget of about 9 million. BGN, although in the first days of my post I had ordered 2 million for Bulgarian cinema, I was surprised that a group of people protested to the Ministry and that there was such a protest after I had given the budget such funds. Of course, I was surprised by that. Later I found out that this protest was a racketeering for some millions for two sessions signed with a contract without financial coverage, colleagues. When we left for Bulgarian cinema budget funds of about 16 million. 200,000. lv. And on top of that, today we have the pleasure of the National Assembly adopting a law with which Bulgarian cinema will have another 25 million. lv. for the creation of good Bulgarian films "a total of 41 million." BGN, and for greater access of artists from all generations, for more films, so that Bulgarian cinema can develop and reach the highest forms of European and why not world cinema. Colleagues, that is why I say unprecedentedly, because with this law there will be 41 million. lv. About the movies. This fact is not a random reaction of the Bulgarian government, but is a process that we have followed for almost a year and a half. It is thanks to Mrs Gergana Passy's initiative to create a wide public forum with colleagues from the film industry, to which I was kindly invited and to whom no representative of the management of the Ministry of Culture was unknown. Thanks to this extraordinary public discussion, I believe that today we can congratulate ourselves with success at the adoption of the Law. Colleagues, with an apology, I will allow myself to thank the Committee on Culture and Media because you deserve gratitude...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u222	Mr. Rashidov, these thanks somehow don't add up to the second reading of the Law. So far, you've been extremely precise and detailed under § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u223	Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u224	Maybe at the end of the day, after the Law's over.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u225	We're talking about morality here, and it's nice to thank people for their work. This is not about first and second readings, but about Bulgarian cinema. If you'll allow me as chairman to finish my thanks and I'll end up blaming myself on this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u226	I'm going to punish you until then. [[Laughs, laughs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u227	I'll buy you a drink. They just brought me a nice box. [[Laughter]] I will thank the Committee on Culture and Media for their tireless work. There are some subtleties I'll allow myself to say in this gratitude. Today I can thank all parliamentary groups, as Mr. Budinov and Mr. Toma Bikov did, including the opposition, which with great responsibility approaches this bill. This shows something very important. The colleagues are manifesting wisdom and national responsibility when a law is adopted, which I could say is historical, as Budinov said, and is for a change in Bulgarian cinema. Bow down, fellows! Thank you for the unity we have been talking about in this room for years! That's what happened. I would not forget Finance Minister Kiril Ananiev and thank him for this 41 million, for his kindness, understanding and professional work on financing film production. And last but not least, I will say Prime Minister Borisov, which will turn you on for sure, who has always had unreserved confidence in me before and now, because I have never failed him and the results we achieve are rooted in this trust. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] This bill guarantees not only the funds, but it guarantees by modern rules, guarantees more serious control over the state funds, greater sustainability of Bulgarian cinema and more democratic forms of distribution of public finances. Unlike the already outdated Law on the Film Industry, which, as a well-oiled machine, has created convenient forms and practices of management for some people incompatible with time, the new law provides a new form that will have more money for cinema production and more transparent reporting, guarantees for...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u228	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u229	I'm done. I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u230	If you continue, I will impose disciplinary punishment on you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u231	Depends on the punishment...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u232	You may continue, but nevertheless I am forced, because of the serious deviation from the second-vote texts, to impose a penalty and disciplinary measure on you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u233	Mr. Chairman, I will obey, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u234	Go on, you can talk for another 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u235	Colleagues, you see, not only are BSPs stopping, but me, but I'm not mad. Thank you. Colleagues, it's a difficult bill, half-finished when it came, and one month the really parliamentary group and the Commission were working tirelessly. That's why I'm saying we passed a law that... Let all Bulgarians be proud of the good Bulgarian cinema, because Mr. Simeonov knows better than I how important the spirit is, especially in the restaurants at the sea when we have programs and singers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u236	You have 33 minutes left.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u237	Should I talk?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u238	You can speak in a specific paragraph, not in general.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u239	Thanks, I won't talk anymore. Thank you all! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u240	Are there lines? I can't see. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the bill, as well as paragraphs 1 to 8 inclusive. They voted 102 MPs: 100, none, abstention 2. The name of the bill and paragraphs 1 to 8 have been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mr. Ivan Chenchev for a new § 8a. They voted 96 MPs: 12, against 5, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the new § 9 as amended by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 9 has been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u241	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Toma Bikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 13 is amended as follows: Art. 13. (1) The Financial Commission shall be appointed for a period of one year by order of the Executive Director. The Commission is organised in two configurations. (2) The first composition of the Commission for the financial assessment of the projects under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 consists of 7 members with proven experience in the organisation and financing of production, distribution or exhibition of films of which: 1. three experts from the agency, film specialists; 2. three experts entered in the register under art. 15, para. 1 determined by criteria laid down in the Rules of application of the law and by lot of the register; where this condition cannot be met, the quota shall be filled in randomly by lot with a person in the register; 3. one expert from the Ministry of Culture. (3) The second composition of the Commission for the financial assessment of the projects under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 shall consist of 5 members of which: 1. two experts from the agency sone lawyer and one financier or economist; 2. two producers entered in the register under art. 15, para. 1 and determined by lot from the register; where this condition cannot be fulfilled, the quota shall be filled in randomly by lot with a person in the register; 3. an accountant with at least three years of professional experience in the film industry. (4) The Financial Commission shall: 1. in the first Chamber organize and carry out a financial assessment of the projects examined and assessed by the committees under art. 8, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4 designated as State aid under the State aid schemes under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6; 2. in the second Chamber shall carry out a financial assessment and approve the amount of expenditure of projects examined and assessed by the Committee on Art. 8, para. 1, t. 2 which are to be recovered under a State aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. in both configurations in accordance with their competence perform a verification of compliance with the conditions of the schemes under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1... 4, 5 and 6 and with Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 and verification of compliance with the conditions of the scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 5 and by Commission Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013 of 18 December 2013 on the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to de minimis aid (OJ L 352/1 of 24 December 2013) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 140 Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 13a: Art. 13a. (1) The admission committee shall be appointed by order of the Executive Director of the Agency for a period of one year. The Commission shall consist of 5 members of which three members entered in the register under art. 15, para. 1 and designated by lot of the register and two experts from the agency. (2) The admission committee shall carry out a verification of compliance of the project approved for financing with the finished film, respectively a series. The verification shall be carried out according to the criteria laid down in the Rules of Implementation of the Law. A certificate of completed cultural product shall be issued in conformity. (3) In the event of non-compliance, the Executive Director of the Agency shall, on the basis of a reasoned report of the Commission, set a time limit for its removal. In the event of non-compliance, the producer may not apply for State support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1 for a period of 1 year. Under § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Toma Bikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 10, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Article 14 is amended as follows: Art. 14. (1) Two months before the expiry of the term of office of each of the bodies referred to in art. 8, para. 1 shall determine the new members of the committees. (2) The powers of the members of an authority under art. 8, para. 1 may be terminated early by resigning or if they are unable to fulfil their duties for more than two months or in the event of death. (3) In the cases under para. 2 within one month the Executive Director of the Agency shall appoint a new member for a period until the end of the term of office of the exempted member. (4) The order under para. 1 for the holding of lots for the appointment of members of the committees shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (5) The orders by which the members of the bodies under Article are appointed. 8, para. 1 shall be published immediately on the Agency's website. Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from the MP Toma Bikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 15 is amended as follows: Art. 15. (1) The Agency shall establish and keep a register of experts participating in the committees under art. 8, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8. (2) In the register under para. 1 are entered directors, producers, writers, operators, actors, film critics and animated film artist who meet the following requirements: 1. directors, producers, writers and operators shall have a minimum of two feature films or series and 5 years of experience in film production; 2. for the committees under art. 8, para. 1, t. 1 letter "a", essays "in" and "b", essays "in" the directors, producers, writers and artists in animated cinema to have a minimum of 2 animated films and 3 years of experience in animated film production; 3. actors have a minimum of 5 roles in feature films or series; 4. Cinema critics in the past 5 years have at least 10 publications in specialized editions with a profile of art. (3) The conditions and arrangements for entry in the register under para. 1, for its conduct, for carrying out the financial assessment of the projects, for the organisation of the activities of the National Council for Cinema and of the committees under art. 8, para. 1 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 17 is amended as follows: Art. 17. (1) Every year, the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria provides funds for state support under this law and funds for funding of national festivals organised by the Agency. (2) State aid to the film industry under this law shall be granted under State and minimal aid schemes within the framework of expenditure established under the budget of the Ministry of Culture with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria under the budget programme for supporting film art. (3) The funds for State support under para. 2 shall be programmed separately for: 1. Priority state support under the film production scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1; 2. State support under the reimbursement scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. State support under the distribution scheme of films under art. 26, para. 1, t. 3; 4. State support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 4 for festivals and cultural events. 5. State support under the schemes under art. 26, para. 1, t. 5 for promotion and display of films; 6. State support under the scheme for the production of series under art. 26, para. 1, t. 6. (4) The annual amount of funds for a scheme: Article 1 26, para. 1, t. 1 cannot be less than the sum of the average budgets for the previous year respectively of 12 feature films, 22 feature documentary films and 250 minutes animation; Art. 2. 26, para. 1, t. 2 shall not be less than the funds determined under the scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 for the production of feature films, not taking into account the means of distribution of films, festivals, cultural events, promotion and display of films; Art. 3. 26, para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 is part of the scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 and shall be 15 per cent of them; Art. 4. 26, para. 1, t. 6 cannot be less than the sum of the average budgets for the previous year of 15 full-length documentaries. (5) State support to the film industry for a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 and 6 shall be provided after securing the annual amount of the funds for a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Toma Bikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Asya Peeva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 13, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 18 is amended as follows: Art. 18. (1) The funds referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3 and Art. 17, para. 4 t. 1 shall be spent on state support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 which is not less than 85 per cent for film production and for activities under art. 28, para. 1, and they include: 1. to 5 percent for films under art. 30a; 2. not less than 10 per cent for debut films; 3. to 20 per cent for films under art. 28, para. 1, t. 2 when funding is provided by a foreign co-producer. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be allocated to support the production of gaming, documentaries and animation films in a proportion equivalent to the specified amount of annual subsidy under art. 17, para. 4 t. 1 for each type of film. (3) The funds referred to in art. 17, para. 4 t. 3 are allocated as follows: 1. under the State aid scheme referred to in Article 1. 26, para. 1, t. 3 to finance the distribution of films 5 per cent; 2. under the State aid scheme referred to in Article 2. 26, para. 1, t. 4 for financing of festivals and cultural events 5 per cent; 3. under the State aid scheme referred to in Article 3. 26, para. 1, t. 5 to finance promotion and show of films "5 per cent," of which 90 per cent to show films and 10 per cent for promotion of films. (4) The funds referred to in art. 17, para. 4 t. 4 shall be spent on state support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 6. (5) The annual budget of each scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 " 3 and 6 shall not exceed the dimensions specified in art. Point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014. (6) The annual budget of the scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 4 may not exceed the dimensions specified in art. Article 4 (1) (b) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 652/2014 Under § 14, there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... Article 19 is amended as follows: Art. 19. (1) The Agency shall establish and maintain a single public register of: 1. independent producers; 2. suppliers of film production services; 3. film distributors; 4. persons showing films on the territory of the the country; 5. the cinemas; 6. film productions carried out by foreign producers on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, including co-productions with Bulgarian producers; 7. films received for distribution and display in the country; 8. projects created jointly with the Bulgarian National Television; 9. projects which have received State aid in applying under State aid schemes under art. 26, para. 1; 10. professional organizations and non-profit entities with activity in the film industry. (2) For registration under para. 1, t. A sample approved by the Executive Director of the Agency shall be submitted to the Executive Director of the Agency. (3) The registration under para. 1, t. 7 "9" is carried out by the agency in a professional capacity. (4) On registration under para. 1, t. 4 are also subject to persons registered as traders under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union or of another State of the Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation. (5) The terms and procedures for the registration and deletion in the register shall be laid down in the Rules of Implementation of the Law. Under § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 15, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 19th para. 1, t. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, (b) c. 1 in the beginning shall be added to the list and a dash shall be inserted after the words "production activity" and a comma shall be added to the list of activities as a provider of film services and the word "production activity" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of 3. In para. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are 4. The creation of para. 4. . (4) The application for entry in the register under art. 19th para. 1, t. 10 contains: 1. name of the legal person and unique identifier; 2. goals, activities and experience in the field of film industry; 3. membership; 4. Website. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18. According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MP Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 which is reflected in art. 17, para. 5 a t. 1 is withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 17, para. 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 1.In para 1: (a) c. 1 after the word "films" shall be added "with the exception of those" t uc the following point (b) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." State aid scheme for reimbursement of film production costs, including series, subject to the requirements and time limits of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014; c) the current t. 2 becomes t. 3 and after the word "films" shall be added "with the exception of those referred to in paragraph 1. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (d) a new item shall be created. 4. "4." State aid scheme for festivals and cultural events subject to the requirements and time limits of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014; (e) the current t. 3 becomes t. 5 and is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. Minimum aid scheme for promotion and display of films, except those under point (c) 6, subject to the requirements and time limits of Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013; f) Created t. 6: It's six. State aid scheme for the production of series, subject to the requirements and time limits of Regulation (EU) No 652/2014. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: . (5) For State support under the scheme under para. 1 may not apply: 1. a member of a committee under art. 8, para. 1, t. 1.. only before the committee in which he participates and until the expiry of his term of office; 2. a member of a committee under art. 8, para. 1, t. In the event of an early termination of his term of office only in front of the committee in which he participated and until the expiry of his term of office; 3. A person for whom the conditions for a related person are available the meaning of § 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Commercial Law by Member of a committee under this law only before the committee in which the member of the committee shall participate; 4.Employee of the Agency. 3. Allinei 6 and 7 are canceled. 4. In para. 8 and 9 words. The text of this Decision is attached to this Decision. 5. They're creating an al. 10? 14:...?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u242	Wait, there's some confusion here. The points are: 1, 2, 3, 4. We're going back to three. Maybe they need to be renumbered. The pure editorial dots are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 "from 1 to 7. All right, keep up the al. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u243	. (10) No reimbursement of costs under the scheme under para. 1, t. 2 for costs for which other State or minimal aid, irrespective of its source, has been received. (11) The same project may be applied for aid under more than one of the schemes under this law if: 1. support is for different eligible costs; 2. support is for the same whole or in part overlapping eligible costs, provided that the accumulation the aid does not exceed the highest applicable intensity and the highest applicable amount of aid. (12) In the cases referred to in para. 11, p. 2 State aid intensity for a film project, including a series, shall be determined in accordance with art. 28, para. 3, taking into account and receiving State aid from local, regional or national sources in the country or from sources of the European Union or the European Economic Area until the date of granting State aid for the same project under this law. (13) The order and mechanisms for granting and controlling each State and minimum aid shall be laid down by the rules for implementing the law and shall ensure compliance of each project approved for support with the conditions of the aid schemes and with the applicable regulations. (14) The directors, producers, writers, operators and artists in the animated cinema who received state support shall be entered in the register of art. 15, para. 1 if they meet the requirements for entry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u244	Do you have any statements on the read paragraphs?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u245	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to extend the hours until 3:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u248	Thank you. Is there a counteroffer? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 78 MPs: 65 against 5, abstention 8. The proposal for extension of working hours to 15:00 is accepted. Statements on the read paragraphs? Mrs. Tsvetkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! My statement is under paragraphs 14 and 17. What we have proposed by the United Patriarchs on the change of the Law between first and second readings are a number of changes, but what I want to highlight is art. 17, para. 5. We from "United Patriarchs" propose state funding to be a priority for the production of Bulgarian films. What do I mean? For the first time with the proposed changes, the series will be subsidised by the state, but under a separate scheme which enters from 2022. The most important thing is that this will not be at the expense of the subsidy for the production of gaming, documentaries and cartoons, which was the apple of discord. For the first time a scheme for financial incentives is introduced by the state to recover a certain percentage of the costs of production of films and series produced on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. They will be able to benefit both Bulgarian and foreign productions, which will attract investments in the Bulgarian economy, will reveal jobs and professional growth for Bulgarian actors and artists. However, what we insist on from the "United patriots" is that these incentives, which foreign productions will be able to benefit from, will be granted only if the subsidy for the production of Bulgarian films provided for in the Law is provided as a priority. I am pleased that the proposal has met support from the article, as well as from all Members of the Parliament in the Committee on Culture and Media. After violent disputes in the guild, with a very positive attitude on the part of the MPs and with our desire to really be useful to this law, after a series of difficult workshops, day-to-day work and a lot of effort, we have indeed succeeded with the efforts of all stakeholders to reach an agreement that is not very small. Thank you for the work of the Union of Filmmakers, the Association of Film and Television Producers, the Union of Artists in Bulgaria, producers, directors and writers, operators, representatives of the gaming, documentary and animated cinema, the Bulgarian cinemas, the deaf community in Bulgaria, the National Film Centre, the director Andrey Slabakov, a MEP who really made an immense effort and advocated not only to be exquisite...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u250	By the lyrics, Mrs. Tsvetkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u251	...higher budget, but higher criteria to make more quality cinema. Of course, there was no way that this bill, which we are currently voting on, could be a fact in this form if it wasn't for the Directorate of Employment and Law of the European Union and especially for Director Iva Miteva, who, with her professionalism, helped to successfully finalise the Bill. I am pleased that in the end we united in the name of the development of Bulgarian cinema and placed responsibility over party differences and interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Tsvetkova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 10 to 19 with the new numbering of the Commission Report. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs with a new numbering from 10 to 19 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u253	Proposal by the MP Toma Bikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, i.e. 2 is generally reflected in art. 27, para. 1, t. 5. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26a, para. 1 Finally, a project of a director, which is not incomplete within the meaning of the Copyright Act and related rights film of the same kind with a subsidy, is added. Under § 18, there is a proposal from the MP Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Toma Bikov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 18, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Article 27 is amended as follows: Art. 27. (1) Any project applying for State aid under a State aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 or 6 shall be assessed as a cultural product according to: 1. its cultural, artistic and creative qualities with focus on the originality of the topic, the artistic value of the scenario, the creative methods used for a film story, The playwright structure, the main characters, the director's explication and/or visual concept, the creative potential of the project in the context of European cultural diversity; 2. its viewing potential and the possibility of cultural impact; 3. the correspondence between the scenario, the proposed artistic solutions and the economic justification of the proposed budget; 4.The justification of the financial plan and the production strategy; 5. for projects under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 the Agency's official assessment of criteria laid down in the Rules for Law Enforcement on the basis of: (a) the experience and professional achievements of the producer; and The director, the recognition of their previous works by viewers; b) realized at least 7500 paid views in the country and abroad for a previous project for a feature feature film; c) distribution of feature feature films at small in 25 percent of the existing cinemas in the country; (d) official selection or awards from Class A or B festivals; 6. for projects under art. 26, para. 1, t. 6 the experience and professional achievements of the producer and director and the achieved rating of their prime secret works or number of paid views in platforms for access to audiovisual works included in a catalogue; 7. the project's distribution and marketing plan; 8. promotion of Bulgarian culture, public development, historical heritage, traditions and opportunities for tourism. (2) The provisions of para. 1, t. 2 and 5 do not apply in the case of state support for debut Bulgarian films. (3) Any project applying for State aid under a State aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 For reimbursement of costs shall be assessed as a cultural product according to the criteria under art. 35f, para. 2, p. 2. (4) Any project applying for State aid under a State aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 3, is assessed as a cultural product according to: 1. the aesthetic and emotional influence of the film, its ability to actively engage the audience's interest, The power of history, the acting, the director, the camera and the scenography; 2. the distribution and marketing plan; 3. the professional experience and recognition of the producer and the director; 4. the professional experience of the distributor; 5. presented national and European values. (5) Any project applying for State aid under a State aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 4 The festival shall be assessed as a cultural product according to: 1. the artistic value and originality of the content, taking into account the cultural and geographical, genre and species diversity, the included educational and professional events, the presentation of modern trends in the development of the audiovisual industry; 2. the potential to reach the audience, for the development of film culture and the availability of communication and marketing strategy; 3. the importance of the festival for the development of the Bulgarian film industry.. goals, expected results, sustainability and continuity; 4. the organisational experience of the project management team; 5. the justification of the budget, the financial plan and the production strategy. (6) Any project applying for State aid under a State aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 4 For cultural event, it shall be assessed as a cultural product according to: 1. selected film projects and films with the artistic value of their content, in the context of European cultural diversity, genre and species diversity, the presentation of contemporary trends in the development of the film industry; 2. the development of European and international cooperation in the field of cinematography, the creation of conditions for co-productions; 3. the expansion of the audience's access to film creativity and the promotion of Bulgarian cinema abroad; 4. the creation of professional educational practices, the improvement of professional qualifications of experts and artists employed in the film industry, the presentation of Bulgarian talents on the international stage; 5. the sustainability and continuity and organizational experience of the team and the quality of management of the event. According to § 19 there is a proposal from Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 19, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 28 is amended as follows: Art. 28. (1) State support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 shall be provided for projects for: 1. production of Bulgarian feature, documentary, animated and debut films; 2. cross-border productions and films produced under the conditions of co-production with States Parties to the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Co-production (revised) 30 January 2017, Rotterdam, ratified by law (GB, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). , hereinafter referred to as the "Cinematographic Co-production', and with other countries with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded agreements in the field of the film industry and audio-vision; 3. production of films under the conditions of co-production with the Bulgarian National Television or with another television operator with national scope; 4. scenario writing activities; 5. Pre-production activities to create a film. (2) Financial support within the maximum intensity under para. 3: 1. of projects under para. 1, t. 1 shall not be less than 30 per cent of the average budget for the corresponding type of film for the previous year, with the exception of low or micro-financing projects; 2 times para. 1, t. 4 and 5 may not exceed 5 percent of the average budget for a feature film for the previous year. (3) The intensity of the State support for the production of films under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 may not exceed 50 per cent of the eligible costs, except in the following cases: 1. for pre-production and film creation activities up to 100 percent of the eligible costs; 2. for difficult films, up to 80 percent of eligible costs, except for the first and second feature film by a director and low-financing film, for which the funding is up to 90 percent of the eligible costs; 3. for cross-border productions is up to 60 per cent of the eligible costs, for this part of them, which refers to the Bulgarian participation. (4) In the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be spent at least 75 per cent of the allocated State aid for the production of films under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1. (5) The Agency may require that up to 160 per cent of the aid provided for the production of a film be spent on the territory of the country. (6) The maximum costs related to the obligation to territoriality of expenditure under para. 5, may not exceed 80 per cent of the total budget of the film. Under § 20, there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 1, item 1. 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 20, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In para. 2, p. 2 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u254	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the following texts: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 20 with a text on the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 18, which becomes § 21; the version proposed by the Commission, for the texts of § 19, which becomes § 22, and § 20, which becomes § 23. Vote 74 MPs: 72, none, abstention 2. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u255	Proposal by the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs: A new Section IIa is hereby established under the name of the State Support for the Production of Series (Articles 31b and 31c) : Art. 31b. ... (2) The financial support of projects under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall not be less than 30 percent of the average budget for the corresponding series for the previous year. ............................................... The Commission does not support the proposal for art. 31b, para. 2 and supports it in general in the rest. The Commission proposes to create a new § 24: .................................................................................. Section IIa with Article 5 shall be inserted in Chapter 5. 31b and 31c: "Department IIa" State support for the production of series Art. 31b. (1) State support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 6 shall be provided for projects for: 1. Bulgarian series with duration from 6 to 14 episodes per season with duration of each episode over 40 minutes purely programming time, and for Bulgarian animation series with total duration of the series no less than 24 minutes, which are produced by independent producers; 2. cross-border series productions with a duration of 6 to 14 episodes per season with a duration of each episode over 40 minutes of pure programming time, and for Bulgarian animation series with a total duration of the series not less than 24 minutes, which are produced by independent producers under the conditions of co-production with States Parties to the Convention on Cinematographic Co-production and with other countries with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded agreements in the field of the film industry and audio-vision. (2) The intensity of the State support for projects under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 may not exceed 50 per cent of the eligible costs. (3) In the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be spent at least 75 per cent of the allocated State aid for the production of series under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 6. Art. 31c. (1) State support for projects under art. 26, para. 1, t. 6 shall be provided after a contest, announced by order of the Executive Director of the Agency. The terms and procedures for holding the contest shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (2) The independent producers whose projects for series have been approved for funding shall be entered into a state aid contract. (3) With the contract under para. 2 State aid shall be granted within the meaning of the State aid law and the date of its entry into force shall be considered as the date on which the aid was granted. The Commission proposes to create a new § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the text before t. 1 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Chapter Five, the name of Section IV is amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 28. Under § 24, there is a proposal of the National Representative Toma Bikov, made in accordance with Article 24. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 24, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) State support for showing films under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 is up to the arithmetic sum of two components. The first component shall be calculated as a product of the average screening revenue in the relevant cinema area for the last 6 months preceding the date of the application for support and the number of screenings of the film concerned for the reporting period for which the application for support is submitted. The second component amounts to 50 percent of the total revenue from tickets sold in the relevant cinema or cinema complex for the relevant film for the reporting period for which the application for support is submitted. State support for films under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall be increased by 20 per cent if the cinematographer applying has achieved the double size for the provided in art. 44, para. 1 sentence second time to show Bulgarian films. The total amount of State support may not exceed the amounts set out in Article 3 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: (3) State support for showing films under para. 1, t. 3 is in size up to the arithmetic sum of two components. The first component shall be calculated as a product of half of the average projection revenue in the relevant cinema for the last 6 months preceding the date of the application for support and the number of screenings of the film in question for the reporting period for which the application for support is submitted. The second component is 25 percent of the total revenue from tickets sold in the relevant cinema or cinema complex for the relevant film for the reporting period for which the application for support is submitted. State support for films under para. 1, t. 3 shall be increased by 20 per cent if the cinematographer applying has achieved the double size for the provided in art. 44, para. 1 sentence first time to show European films. The total amount of State support may not exceed the amounts set out in Article 3 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013. 3. In para. 4 the figure 4. In para. 5 the word "festivals" is replaced by "show of films." 5. The creation of para. 6: For State support for show shows, cinemas may apply which have conducted not less than 150 commercial screenings indoors or 30 screenings outdoors for the previous six months of the reporting period for which the application for support is submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u256	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported part of the proposal of the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. They voted 63 MPs: 13 against 1, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 24 with a text on the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 25............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Vote 79 MPs: 74, none, abstention 5. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u257	Under § 25 there is a proposal received by the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs: In § 25, in art. 35d, para. 1 After the words "Bulgarian movies" the words "series" are added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 30. Under § 26, there is a proposal received by the National Representative Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 26, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... Chapter 5 shall be created with art. 35f " 35i: ? Chapter Five?? Refund costs for film production, including series. Art. 35. (1) The reimbursement of expenditure incurred for the production of films, including series, shall be carried out under a State aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2. (2) For reimbursement of expenses under para. 1 may be applied with a work to be: 1. meet one of the following categories of film: (a) a feature film lasting over 70 minutes; b) a documentary lasting over 60 minutes or a documentary series lasting each episode over 40 minutes; c) animated film or animated series with a total duration of more than 24 minutes; (d) a film intended to be broadcast on television or on platforms of more than 70 minutes duration, or a series with a duration of each episode of more than 40 minutes; 2. to be defined as a cultural product on the basis of cultural criteria included in a test: (a) the cultural, artistic and creative content, the creative method used, the plot of the script and the image of the main characters in the context of European cultural diversity and values; (b) an assessment of creative cooperation and the use of local resources; c) events, images, works or their authors directly related to culture, history, mythology or religions in Bulgaria or Europe, as well as an event of global significance; (d) a Bulgarian or European architectural, cultural or historical landmark or geographical location, reflecting significant Bulgarian or European values; (e) the use of innovative approaches, techniques and technologies with regard to the creative and/or technical process of operation; (f) the language of the final version of the work.. one of the official languages of the European Union. 3. to be created in whole or in part in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. be intended for public display and/or broadcast. (3) For reimbursement of expenses under the scheme under para. 1 may apply: 1. a producer or co-producer who acquired rights to the script of the work under para. 2, p. 1, or 2. a supplier of film production services which has a contract with a producer who has acquired the rights to the script of a work under para. 2, p. 1 for the purpose of producing this work. (4) The candidate under para. 3 must: 1. to have the quality of a legal person registered with the activity of producing films under para. 2, p. 1 under the Bulgarian legislation, or under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union, or of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, or under the legislation of a third country, and in the latter case the registration was made at least two years before the application for reimbursement; 2. to produce a work by para. 2, p. 1; 3. to be entered in the register under art. 19th para. 1; 4. in a period of 5 years until the application for reimbursement of expenditure under the scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 have produced at least one piece in whole or in part under para. 2, p. 1 which is shown in cinemas and/or is broadcast on television and/or accessible to subscribers on platforms for access to audiovisual works included in a catalogue or shown at at at least one international festival. (5) A producer or a supplier of film production services may apply for reimbursement, which does not meet the requirements of para. 4 t. 4 but with regard to it one of the following conditions is fulfilled: 1. is the founder or legal representative of the legal person under para. 4; 2. up to 10 years before applying under the scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 his executive director or manager has created and/or participated in the creation of at least one work under para. 2, p. 1. (6) Where a candidate under the scheme under para. 1 there is no registration, including of a branch under the Bulgarian legislation, it is obliged to register before the date of payment of the State aid under this chapter. (7) In the case of a co-production candidate under the scheme under para. 1 can be this co-producer who has registration under Bulgarian law for the purpose of producing a work under para. 2, p. 1. (8) In the case of production where none of the producers has registration under the Bulgarian legislation or under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union, or of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, under the scheme under para. 1 can apply for foreign producer through a supplier of film production services registered under the Bulgarian legislation, which will be a candidate in the procedure. (9) Candidate under the scheme under para. 1 may only be a producer, co-producer or supplier of film production services which meets the criteria for an independent producer within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 39 of the additional provision. Art. 35g. No reimbursement of costs under the scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 for projects which: 1. could lead to a violation of the authority of the Republic of Bulgaria or the Bulgarian nation against the rule of law or constitutional principles, invite to war, racism, acts of nationalism, religious hatred and national separatistism or promote discrimination; 2. contain elements of a pornographic nature or language, undermine the dignity, honour of citizens and are directed against their privacy, directly or indirectly instigating aggression and propaganda of a political or religious nature; 3. are sports events, games or competitions; 4. are tuk-show, reality show, script-free or live-type programs; 5. are TV series of the type of daily drama, situational comedy; 6. are demonstration programs for different hobbies or projects; 7. are works of advertising and/or promotional nature, regardless of the duration, carrier or how they are used; 8. represent filmed material for internal use which is not accessible to the general public. Art. 35z. (1) For reimbursement of expenditure may be applied only with a project which meets the requirements for eligible expenditure under art. Article 54 (5) (d) of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014. (2) Costs shall be subject to reimbursement: 1. in the amount of 25 percent of all eligible costs incurred for the production of a work under para. 2, p. 1 related to the supply of goods and services provided in the Republic of Bulgaria by natural and legal persons registered under the Bulgarian legislation; 2. at the amount of 25 percent of all eligible costs incurred for the production of a work under para. 2, p. 1 related to services provided in the Republic of Bulgaria by natural persons registered under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union, or to another Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement or to the Swiss Confederation whose income generated by a source in the Republic of Bulgaria is subject to a final tax under Bulgarian law. (3) Eligible costs on the basis of which the amount under para. 1 should not exceed 80 per cent of the total production budget. (4) Recovery of funds under the scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 is only for eligible costs incurred entirely in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 35th. (1) The conditions for implementing the scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 and the procedure for reimbursement shall be laid down by the rules for implementing the law, subject to the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014. (2) For applying for reimbursement of expenses under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 a fee of an amount fixed in the tariff under art. 25. Under § 27, there is a proposal received by the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 27, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 9 the words of the films shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 t. Four is canceled. 3. In para. 4. (a) in the text before t. 1 the words of the films shall be deleted and the following the words shall be added to the movie, including the series. (b) c. 3 after the words (c) c. 4 is added after the words....... or D+.......................................................................................... 4. In para. 6 sentence first the words Under § 28 there is a proposal of the National Representative Maria Tsvetkova, made in accordance with Article 28. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 28, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence is created second: "In the distribution of films duplicated in Bulgarian, as well as in Bulgarian films it is necessary to have subtitles in Bulgarian for people with hearing loss. 2. In para. 3: (a) To be created t. 3a: In the category "C" + "C" is not recommended for persons under 14 years of age; (b) To be created t. 4a: 4a. in the category "D+" is not recommended for persons under 16 years of age; "D+" is not recommended for people under 16 years of age; "D" is not recommended. 3. A new para is being created. 6: In the case of films, category "C+" and "D+" in the cinema hall no persons under 14 years of age are allowed, respectively 16 years of age, except with an adult. 4. Previously on AMC's... 6 " 9" became respectively. 7.. 10.... 10............................................................................. According to § 29 there is a proposal received by the MP Evgeni Budinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Evgeni Budinov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 29, which shall become § 34: ................. Article 44 is amended as follows: Art. 44. (1) Not less than 15 percent of the total annual time in each stand-alone cinema and cinema in a cinema complex shall be intended for display of European films. The time for showing Bulgarian films cannot be less than 6 percent of the total annual time in each cinema, evenly distributed in all time zones, and not less than 15 percent of the Bulgarian films shown should be programmed in the most visited time zones. (2) Cinemas by para. 1 shall not require payment of remuneration for the display of a virtual copy of films within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 2 of the additional provision. (3) Cinemasalon, which does not meet the requirements of para. 1 sentence, second, shall not apply for State support under art. 35c, para. 2. (4) Full-time films received state support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 shall be made available for distribution in the cinema halls no later than two years after the completion of the film. There is a proposal of the MP Toma Bikov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 35: .............................................................................. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 30 be rejected. Proposal by the MP Ivan Chenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Velchev made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Maria Tsvetkova and Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." "Film" is the final product of artistic and specific technical activities, the result of which is the creation of a work consisting of a series of related images fixed on a material medium and perceived as a moving picture, loudly synchronised or not intended for distribution, display and transmission. According to their kind the films are: feature, documentary and animated, and according to their duration the films are short, feature and series. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) the point (s) is amended as follows: s) has at least 75 points according to Annex No 1 for a feature and animated film and at least 65 for a documentary; (b) in point (c) the words "20 per cent' shall be replaced by "10 per cent'; the words "10 per cent' shall be replaced by "5 per cent'; and the words "10 points' shall be replaced by "30 points'. 3. Points 3 and 4 are amended as follows: "3." A film that meets at least one of the following conditions: (a) European elements shall be at least 50 points in accordance with Annex 2; (b) It is produced for the most part by one or more producers from countries Parties to the Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction. 4. The Debut film is: a) A playful debut film, which is the director's first feature feature film with a duration of over 70 minutes; (b) a feature debut film, which is the director's first feature documentary with a duration of more than 60 minutes; c) Animated debut film, which is the director's first animated film with a duration of over 5 minutes. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the words "Preparation, photos, installation, sound, and transmission" shall be replaced by "Development," preparation, photos or animation and postproduction." 5. A t is created. 8a: Eight o'clock. The transmission of a film on screen or on television or on platforms for access to audiovisual works included in a catalogue, for commercial purposes in any way, by means of any device, at any place accessible to an unlimited circle of persons. 6. Points 14 "16" are amended as follows: It's 14 years old. The average budget of a feature film is a budget of a feature feature film, calculated on the basis of the expenditure reported for the completed films and the budget expenditure of the films in production for the previous year, including the distribution and display costs of 10 per cent of the amount of the budget calculated according to the official inflation index for the previous year. Minority co-productions, debut films and low and micro-financing films shall not be taken into account. 15. The average budget of a documentary is a budget of a complete documentary, calculated on the basis of the expenditure reported for the completed films and the budget expenditure of the films in production for the previous year, including the distribution and display costs of 10 per cent of the amount of the budget calculated according to the official inflation index for the previous year. Minority co-productions, debut films and low and micro-financing films shall not be taken into account. 16. The average budget of 1 minute animation is an average budget of 1 minute animation calculated on the basis of the expenditure reported for the completed animation films and the budget expenditure of the animation films in production for the previous year, including distribution and display costs of 10 percent of the budget amount calculated according to the official inflation index for the previous year. Minority co-productions, debut films and low and low films shall not be taken into account. 7. point 18 is amended as follows: 18. It's a full-length movie: 1. a feature or animated film lasting more than 70 minutes; 2. a documentary lasting over 60 minutes. 8. point 23 is amended as follows: "23." A hard film is a film that meets at least one of the following conditions: a) has the only original version in Bulgarian; b) first and second feature film of the director; (c) documentary; (d) short film; (e) a low and micro-financing film; (f) International co-production with a country with limited territory, population and language area (states of the list of the Committee for Development Assistance of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (ODA/CDA)......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 9. They're creating a t. 25 s 39: It's 25. "Low funding' is State aid in the amount of: a) up to 40 percent of the average budget of a feature film; b) up to 60 percent of the average budget of a documentary or animated film. 26. "Micro-financing' is State aid of up to 15 per cent of the average budget for the corresponding type of cinema. 27. It is a film lasting less than 40 minutes. 28. It is a radio or television program in which celebrities are invited for an interview or discussion. 29. It is a TV series in which permanent characters are in a constant series of comedy situations. 30. Today's drama is a multi-series drama broadcast daily on radio or television, which is filmed in a way other than film production. 31. The reality show is a program broadcast on television that has no script, presents interpersonal conflicts, emotional reactions or unusual events. Participants interact with each other by participating in challenges and/or competing for a prize and participation of professional actors is not mandatory. 32. The series is a feature, documentary or animated film containing more than one episode intended for broadcasting. 33. "Provider of film services" is a legal entity that manufactures films in whole or in part, including series, under art. 35f, para. 2, p. 2 and has a contract with a producer to provide film production services. 34. "Transverse Production" is a film production involving producers of two or more countries, parties to the Convention on Cinematographic Co-production, respectively, of the European Convention on Cinematographic Co-production, drawn up in Strasbourg on 2 October 1992. (Rated by law............................................................................................... 30 from 2004) (DV, No. 86 from 2004) , or to other countries with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded agreements in the field of the film industry and audio-vision. 35 "Platforms for access to audio-visual works included in the catalogue" is a system with audio-visual content accessible on the Internet or in other ways that allows users, subscribers of the system to choose and watch movies, including series, at random times. 36. "Festival" is an event which includes in its programme films (game, documentary or animation) which are broadcast to a wide audience, including unspecialized audience and international accredited specialists in the audiovisual field and press representatives, based on certain selection rules adopted by the organizers. 37. "Cultural event" is a professional cultural event organized by professionals in the field of film industry (producers, directors, distributors, sales agents, festival representatives, etc.) related to presentation of film and development projects, seeking co-production partners, distribution, promotion and future festival selections, as well as presentation, exchange and promotion of professional expertise in the field of cinema. 38. "Executive producer" is a natural or legal person who, on the basis of a contract, provides production services for films, including series, under art. 35f, para. 2, consulting, coordinating and responsible for the effective implementation of the set artistic, organisational and financial parameters of the work. In cases where there is a studio or television channel involved, he shall be responsible for the production on behalf of the studio or producer. 39. An independent producer is a producer who is self-employed and economically independent in its activities by any provider of linear or non-linear audiovisual media services and for which the following requirements are met: (a) is not the owner of a provider of linear or non-linear audiovisual media services or of a radio operator or a share of its property, and (b) a provider of linear or non-linear audiovisual media services or radio operator, or related person, is not the owner of such a person or share of his property, and (c) a member of an independent producer's management body or its owner shall not be associated with a provider of linear or non-linear audiovisual media services or a radio operator.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u258	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. You've done very well. Congratulations! Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u259	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Two technical repairs. In § 26, which becomes § 31, our written proposal is only on point. 2 - Technical error in the Report. We support the text, but we insist that it be reflected that we have proposed only the text in writing. 2. And another technical amendment. On the basis of art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose an editorial amendment in art. 35f, para. 2, p. 2 (c) to be uniformed with the provision of art. 27, para. 1, t. Eight that we've already accepted. This is Mr. Budinov's proposal, namely in art. 35f, para. 2, p. 2 point (c) to be amended as follows: (c) promotion of Bulgarian culture, public development, historical heritage, traditions, and opportunities for tourism Thus, the requirements for a cultural test for the production of films and the reimbursement of costs for the production of films will be the same. And a very short statement under § 33, Art. 41. With the change we are about to vote on, the films will now be available to people with auditory loss. I believe that we owed this to the deaf community and are going in this direction as MPs from the Forty-fourth National Assembly with consistent policy after we adopted the Law on gesture translation and changes in this direction in the Law on Radio and Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Tsvetkova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. We will continue to vote on the proposed texts. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Velislava Krasteva. Cancel the vote, please. [[Reference between the President and the National Representative Velislava Krasteva.]] Colleagues, we're going to rewrite the text. Mrs. Krasteva convinced me that the vote was right. Once again, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the Parliamentary Representative Velislava Krasteva is regarding § 25. They voted 94 MPs: 10, against 2, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 30. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Now I will submit one after another the two proposals of the MP Maria Tsvetkova concerning the text of § 26 which becomes § 31. The first is regarding the numbering: "In § 26, art. 31f, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 and which it declared as a technical error. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. And the second editorial amendment under the same § 26, which became § 31, again the MP Maria Tsvetkova. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 26, which shall become § 31, together with the amendments already adopted; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 27, which shall be § 32; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 28, which shall become § 33; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 29, which shall become § 34; the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 35 with the text of the Commission; the proposal of the Commission to reject the text of the importer for § 30; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 31, which shall become § 36. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u261	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ Annex 1 to § 1, point 2 points (a) and (b) are amended as follows: Annex 1 to § 1, point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 letters (s) and (s) in (s) and (s) shall follow the text of the Annex. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... Annex 2 to § 1, point Point 3 (s) is amended as follows: Annex 2 to § 1, point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 letter................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 34 be rejected. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. There is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 39: .............................................................................. In the case of an exceptional epidemic situation, where the visit to the cinemas has been suspended as a temporary anti-epidemic measure, the average screening revenue shall be taken as a basis when calculating the components for a base in the relevant cinema for the last 6 months preceding the date of termination of the visits. Under § 35 there is a proposal from the MP Velislava Krasteva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 35, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Council of Ministers shall establish the rules for the enforcement of the law and the Rules of Procedure of the Executive Agency. (2) The State aid schemes under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 shall apply after the rules laid down in para. 1 in accordance with this law and informing the European Commission in accordance with the order and within the time limits laid down in art. 9 of the State Aid Act and Art. Point (a) of Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014. (3) The amendments provided for in this Law for the State aid schemes under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 and 3 shall apply after the Rules of Procedure under para. 1 in accordance with this law and informing the European Commission in accordance with the order and within the time limits laid down in art. 9 of the State Aid Act and Art. Point (a) of Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014. (4) The State aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 6 shall apply from 1 January 2022 after the Rules of Procedure under para. 1 in accordance with this law and informing the European Commission in accordance with the order and within the time limits laid down in art. 9 of the State Aid Act and Art. 11 point (d) of Regulation (EU) No 652/2014 Under § 36, there is a proposal from the National Representative Asya Peneva, made in accordance with Article 36. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. (1) The State aid schemes under art. 26, para. 1, t. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (2) The State aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 5 shall apply for a period not exceeding the period of application of Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013. Under § 37, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kalin Velev, made in accordance with Article 37. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 42: .............................................................................. Until the appointment of the new members of the bodies under art. 8, para. 1 Previous Members continue to exercise their powers in the current order. ....................... 38........................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2021. Proposal by the MP Maria Tsvetkova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 38 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u262	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 32, which shall become § 37; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 33, which shall become § 38; the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer in § 34; the text of the importer for the name of the division; the draft of the Commission for the creation of a new § 39 by text under the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 35, which shall become § 40; the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 41; the draft version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 42; and the proposal of the Commission for § 38 to be rejected. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADVOCATURE COMPLIANCE. Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Law Enforcement, No 154-01-12, submitted by Iglika Ivanova-Subeva and a group of MPs on 3 February 2021, adopted at the first vote on 12 February 2021. Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. Proposal from the National Representative Simeon Naydenov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 7 shall be added at the end, or otherwise, in accordance with the authority of the occupation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, which shall be § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall be § 4 and the words "the content act' shall be replaced by "the content act'. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58a, para. 3 in the text before t. 1 after the word The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall be § 6. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the following 1. In para. 1 in the first sentence, the first sentence shall be added by the lawyer who formed the single law firm and the second sentence shall be added to the act of incorporation. 2. In para. 3 in a sentence third, after the words "the manager of the company', is added by the lawyer who formed the sole lawyer. " The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 2, p. 1 shall be added at the end of the entry into force of the act. 2. In para. 3, p. 1 shall be added at the end of the entry into force of the instrument. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall be § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall be § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall be § 12, and the words "heir" is not a lawyer and does not ask for a successor is a lawyer and asks for a lawyer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall be § 13. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77a, para. 3 in the text before t. 1 after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-17.u264	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the text of the importer for § 1; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a text on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 2 which becomes § 3; the text of the importer for § 3, which becomes § 4 with the proposal for an amendment made by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with a text on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 6; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with a text on the Commission Report; § 7 with a text on the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 8 with a text on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, which become paragraphs 9, 10 and 11; respectively, the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 12 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 9, which becomes § 13, and the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 14 with a text on the Commission Report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Next regular plenary sitting on 18 February 2021 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
