ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I present to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for February 10, 2021: "1." Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. A resignation was given by the MP Valentin Nikolov on 8 February 2021. 2. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2021 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers ssa Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tzipov on 15 January 2021. The first vote was adopted on 22 January 2021. 4. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. Importers stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2021. 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. The Council of Ministers received a first vote on 20 January 2021 on 30 December 2020. 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2021 7. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The Council of Ministers received a first vote on 20 January 2021 on 29 December 2020. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions. The Council of Ministers received a first vote on 28 January 2021 on 20 January 2021. Point 1 for Thursday 11 February 2021 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. The Council of Ministers received a first vote on 5 February 2021 on 29 January 2021. Point 2 for Thursday 11 February 2021 10. Second vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products. Importers suppose Julian Angelov and a group of MPs, on 18 December 2020. He was accepted at the first vote on 21 January 2021. Point 3 for Thursday 11 February 2021 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. Importers suppose Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 14 January 2021. 12. Draft Programme for the Development of Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2032 and Draft Decision for the adoption of the Programme and for the determination of the number of the Armed Forces. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 1 February 2021 13. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Health Insurance Act. Importers supplied by Daniela Daritkova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 3 February 2021. Point 1 for Friday 12 February 2021 14. First vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Law Enforcement. Importers "Izlata Sabeva" and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 3 February 2021. Point 2 for Friday 12 February 2021 15. Second vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. Importers "Menda Stoyanova" and a group of MPs on 29 January 2021. The first vote was adopted on 5 February 2021. Point 3 for Friday 12 February 2021 16. Parliamentary control after the legislative part of the meeting on Friday 12 February 2021 Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u2	Agenda procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u3	First we will vote on the agenda and then I will give the floor to a procedure. Vote 162 MPs: 126, against 21, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u4	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! As early as January 21st of the BSP parliamentary group, we introduced the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code concerning the electoral rules, namely the introduction of video surveillance at the end of the election day and counting the ballots and reporting them in the relevant protocol, as well as clearing the electoral lists by means of active registration. On the one hand, you of the ruling majority claim to want transparent, fair elections. On the other hand, as of January 21st, we have already been the month of February "almost the middle, this law has never found a place in the Legal Committee or in the Parliamentary Hall. Madam President, you, as President of the National Assembly, have this responsibility to see this law in the Chamber on sufficient time to be able to implement the proposals in the Chamber. There have been many cases when laws tabled by you by the majority responsible are introduced the previous day, say on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, they are already in the National Assembly at first reading. This practically shows that this saying: "Don't listen to what I'm saying, but watch what I'm saying! " It is obvious that you do not want transparent, fair elections, a real debate on election day technology, about transparency and ensuring proper reporting of results. Because this is the debate that we want to challenge in this National Assembly, at the end of this National Assembly, through these proposals in the Election Code. You take it according to your old custom, everything that is lobbyist, which should pass in two days, the real proposals concerning the future of Bulgaria, because the elections depend on this thing somehow remain in the background. Please organise the legislative process so that this important law, given the upcoming elections, really enters the Chamber to be discussed here as is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I want to assure you that the moment you submitted this bill and came to me, if not on the 21st, at least on January 22nd, I distributed it to the committees entirely within the time limit given by the Rules. As far as I know from Mrs. Alexandrova, she expects opinions and then the bill will be reviewed in the Commission. Dear MPs, today we celebrate 142 years from the convening of the Constitutional Assembly in Veliko Tarnovo. This is the birthday of the Bulgarian Parliament, an important date for the restored Bulgarian state, for its construction, management and development. It gathers representatives of the Bulgarian people from all parts of Bulgaria who are clearly aware of the importance of their mission in the old capital city. There were both sharp clashes and fierce disputes and opposition in the Chamber at the time, but also unification in the name of the homeland. In their work, the founders' fathers put on a revival flame, and in it is an expression of years of accumulated political energy, and above all is their will to create. They knew very well that it depends on them what the Bulgarian state will be about whether it will be part of the modern world, will the Bulgarian people receive new horizons. Conscious of their responsibility, they accept our first Constitution, called Tarnovo, which establishes a democratic basis for social and political life and gives way for the European development of Bulgaria. It is worth it today, 142 years later, to recall the words of Ekzarh Antim I at the opening of the Founding Assembly: The success of the work for which we are gathered depends on the political wisdom that we will show. Dear colleagues, the 44th National Assembly is at the end of its term. Soon the voters will give their assessment of how we worked, did we meet their expectations, did we respond to their problems, did we find the right solutions? But whatever weaknesses and mistakes we may have made, I think that we have not strayed from the right direction for Bulgaria to be part of the family of democratic and legal states seeking peace, freedom and prosperity. Thank you. Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]] Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 3 February 2021 to 9 February 2021: A bill to amend the Law on Countering Corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property. Importer "Milko Nedyalkov." It is allocated to: the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Anti-Corruption and Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. A bill to supplement the Health Insurance Act. Importer Daniela Daritkova. The Committee on Health is the lead. A bill to amend the Law on Radio and Television. Importers "Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It has been assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Sea. Importers "Izlata Sabeva" and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is distributed to the Committee on Culture and Media. A bill to supplement the Penal Code. Importers are Iglika Sabeva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to amend the Code of Penal Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to: the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. A bill to amend and supplement the Roads Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is allocated to: the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Report on the Commission's work on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2020. Importer "The Commission for Countering Corruption and Defeat of Illegally Acquired Property." It is allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Messages: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 5 February 2021 a Decree No 36 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area was adopted by the National Assembly on 25 January 2021 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government to report to the MPs the President's decree and the reasons for it. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew from the Ministry of Defence of Azerbaijan. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 8 February to 14 February 2021 for two flights for the purpose of carrying goods from Spain to Azerbaijan. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearance should be granted to the State concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 5 February 2021 with entry No 103-09-5 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. Information has been received from the National Statistical Institute on Consumer Observation January 2021. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Resigned by MP Valentin Nikolov, 8 February 2021 Application by Valentin Nikolov "Member of the National Assembly of 23. MIR "Sofia Region": "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I would like to be suspended as a Member of the National Assembly by decision of the National Assembly. I'm gonna read you the official too. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Valentin Alexiev Nikolov as MP from the twenty-third electoral region of Sofia. Please, voting mode. Vote 175 MPs: 172 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Valentin Nikolov exits the hall. Applause by GERB.]] Second point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO GENERALATE STATE MONEARY PRACTICES TO THE BULGARIAN STATE AND THE NATION. The report will introduce us to the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u6	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision on the award of state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 102-03-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2021. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 4 February 2021, the Draft Decision for the award of state monetary awards for special services to the Bulgarian State and the nation was discussed, No 102-03-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2021. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov The draft decision was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov. The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Persons for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. The law regulates state monetary prizes for special merit to be: life, periodical and one-off. By Decision No 89 of 1 February 2021, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to give life of 700 BGN. monthly state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation, for outstanding achievements and overall contribution to the culture of: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man - Atanas Stefanov Kurtev, piano player, piano teacher and musicologist; "Vladimir Markov Gazhev "A journalist, music critic, publicist and writer; Georgi Todorov Chapkenov, co-author of the crest of the Republic of Bulgaria and author of the Statue of Sofia. Izhak Samuel Finzi an actor; "Kolyo Georgiev Kolev" - writer and playwright; "Laska Georgieva Mincheva" director; Tsvetana Georgieva Maneva an actress. The funds necessary for the payment of lifelong state monetary prizes for special merit shall be paid through the budget of the Ministry of Culture. As a result of a vote held unanimously with 13 votes for the Culture and Media Committee, the National Assembly proposes to adopt a draft decision to award state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 102-03-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2021. I can read the solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u7	Yeah, that'd be nice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u8	Madam President, colleagues! Project! DECISION granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Individuals for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation HAS DECIDED He awards state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation lively in the amount of 700 BGN. monthly by Anton Nikolov Donchev, Professor Dr. Atanas Stefanov Kurtev, Vladimir Markov Gadzhev, Georgi Todorov Chapkenov, Itzhak Samuel Finzi, Kolyo Georgiev Kolev, Laska Georgieva Mincheva and Tsvetana Georgieva Maneva for their outstanding achievements and their overall contribution to culture. Instructs the Minister of Culture to implement the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u9	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking this statement to ask Mr. Rashidov a question. Dear Mr. Rashidov, on 3 February 2021 the Council of Ministers submitted to the National Assembly another draft for a decision to award state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian state and nation for the award of 65 distinguished Bulgarian artists. Information has appeared that you have requested updating of the list from the Ministry of Culture and I would like to ask you: why today will we not accept such a list and these deserving artists receive a reward? I'm doing it as a statement, but I hope you'll answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Simov. [[Noise and lines.]] As a line please, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u12	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Simov, your question is quite legitimate. There was a list that we all thoroughly reviewed in the Committee on Culture and Media. Here is the place to thank your colleagues from the Left, because we all very well sat down to work on this proposal of 65 big Bulgarian names, which have a very great merit to the Bulgarian culture. Unfortunately, I returned this list to the Ministry because in it, as we looked at it, we all found duplication of names to which such awards were given, and made some minor mistakes. I hope by the end of this term that the Ministry will succeed and correct this list, which I find somewhat unacceptable, as this concerns the lives of extremely many people who have given much more to the state than they will receive. These are the idols of the Bulgarian people. I have always said this bill was created by me and Totyu Mladenov precisely because the Bulgarian great artists do not deserve humiliating old age. I hope that, by the end of our mandate, we will all adopt this proposal together and they will receive their funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Simov, the back? There won't be. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say that we from the BSP parliamentary group will, of course, support the Project for a decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation, but I would like to say two words. Don't you think it should be considered a common, comprehensive system for all those people who actually stay in misery? I will give an example of the case of Philip Trifonov, who himself requested help from the Ministry of Culture, which was refused several years ago. All these people who have received so far, there is no one who does not deserve it, naturally people like Chapkenov, Itzhak Finzi, Laska Mincheva, Anton Donchev and my girlfriend and favorite actress from whom I learn, Tsvetana Maneva, of course, but we wish there was a little more publicity. This committee, which is from the Ministry of Culture, I found out that it was a secret, no one knows who is involved in it. Yes, they reply that this was done in order not to know these names, so that they would not be abused and so on, but since there are worries among the public, I think there should be more publicity and more clarity about exactly who these pensions are given to. The main thing that I want to say is that a more comprehensive system for the pensions of my colleagues is to be considered not only artists, but artists at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. - What's the line? Are there any lines to Mrs. Yotova's statement? I can't see. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u16	Madam President! Mrs. Yotova, I fully agree with what you're saying, one hundred percent. I would even be happy and pleased with that if we all, who are members of the same committee, promote this thing more. To explain to you how this award was created and why it is called a reward. It could also be called a pension, it could be said aid, although the media very often are wrong...................... it is a reward, and that of many worthy Bulgarian artists. When the first term of office was a minister, a unique problem appeared. The three of them died in poverty, wonderful Bulgarian musicians. One didn't wait for the pension. I'm so sorry. That was the reason to think about it: why, as a lifetime, are these our heroes famous, favorite singers, actors, writers, poets, artists, why do these people live in some kind of poverty and misery? That's when I realized that the pensions were 180 leva. Of course, it doesn't matter whether they pay or not, they are the ones to whom the state owes them that they have created the concept of the person and they are the people who create the identity of this country. You know that without names such as Alain Delon, Yves Montan, Simon Signore and those, taking Cesar, Armand France is a 60 million-dollar country inhabited by 60 million French speakers, the states make them the great men of the nation. In this sense, we sat down with Totyu Mladenov and made a bill. We made awards first that they deserve not to be humiliated. Secondly, I have the right to say that every Bulgarian citizen has given something to the world and it is his fundamental right. But not everyone sings like Lily Ivanova, right, it's the only one? That's why we decided to give them prizes. Third, 700 leva. are funds which the GERB government decided to release as prizes so that we do not take them and 300 levs. a pension that the nice get because they really don't get. And so we managed to get.700 BGN and 300 BGN in order to have money for medicines, to live their old age in a dignified way. Then I remember that we all unanimously adopted this bill, both left and right, and others, all of them. That was wonderful. It is wonderful that we are still in full consensus with all of you today, not politicizing people's fate, and once again accepting some awards. Unfortunately, they're a little bit more than I'd give. Because, I'll tell you, when I awarded Jocko Rossic, the nice guy came no more seeing, getting old. How long did Jocko Rossic live for a year, two years, and the nice one go away? Well, one Velko Kanev was sick, I sent him to Berlin, took his pension for eight months. So it's nothing at sea and I'm glad in the future if we improve the Law. Thank God we created this bill, because before that, without the state, there was nothing. Nothing! And now it's still a good help. So thank you all for these awards.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I vote on the draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Vote 137 MPs: 135, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item three of the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTERATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING CODEX People's representatives Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov were brought in on 15 January 2021. The first vote was adopted on 22 January 2021. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u18	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 154-01-4, submitted by Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov on 15 January 2021, adopted on the first vote on 22 January 2021. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Administrative Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u19	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 100 MPs: 93, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u20	Proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), . (6) Where the competent court cannot deal with an administrative case, it shall be sent to an equal court next door by: 1. if a regional court is competent, the case shall be submitted by the administrative court concerned; 2. if an administrative court is competent, the case shall be sent by the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 135 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) Disputes of jurisdiction between district courts dealing with administrative proceedings shall be settled by their general administrative court. If they belong to the areas of different higher administrative courts, the dispute shall be settled by that above administrative court in whose area the court which was last to accept or refuse to examine the case. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6, and in it the words "al." 3 under para 3 respectively. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Three, four, or five. 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7, and in it the words "al." 3 or 4 is replaced by....................................................................................................... Three, four, or five. 5. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8..................................................... Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 137 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: . (3) Where the service is carried out electronically, the communication containing information on the withdrawal of the subpoena, message or paper shall be deemed to have been served on the day of its withdrawal from the addressee. If the communication is not withdrawn within 7 days of its dispatch, it shall be deemed to have been served on the first day following the expiry of the withdrawal period. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 " 5" becomes respectively. 4.... 6..........................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u21	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the new paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. They voted 112 MPs: 87, against 3, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u22	Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by the "Certainment of procedural actions' Art. 142b (1) The Court shall ensure that the proceedings are carried out in a professional capacity. It shall indicate to the Party what the irregularity of its procedural action is and how it may be removed by setting a time limit for the correction. Corrected procedural action shall be deemed to be on a regular basis as from the time it is carried out. (2) At a hearing, the parties shall carry out procedural actions orally and, in other cases, in writing. (3) A procedural action made through obscene words, insults or threats shall be deemed not to have been completed. Proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced . (3) Where the court rejects the proceedings or terminates the proceedings, the defendant shall be entitled to costs unless the defendant has given his conduct to bring the case, including a legal advisory fee determined under art. 37 of the Law on Legal Aid. (4) Where the court rejects the challenge or terminates the proceedings, the right to costs shall also be borne by the parties to whom the act is favourable. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 is The Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction in the case before the Court of Justice of Art. 143a. (1) The sitting shall be chaired by the President of the Chamber, who may impose fines for: 1. infringement of the order at the hearing; 2. failure to comply with the orders of the court; 3. use of obscene words, insults and threats to the court, a person from the administration and those involved in the proceedings. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced . (3) The complaint may not contain obscene words, insults or threats. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 158, para. 1 after the words Proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, but proposes to reject it, as it is reflected in its systematic position as a new § 6. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 212 is . (3) The complaint may not contain obscene words, insults or threats.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u23	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly established paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, the rejection of the proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid for the creation of a new paragraph............................................................................. 171a, because it has gone to its systematic place, and the creation of a new § 10. They voted 104 MPs: 78, against 4, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u24	Paragraph 1 "Instruction text'. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... "Treaty check and eligibility of the cassation complaint or protest Art. 213a (1) The Judge-Rapporteur in the Court of First Instance shall carry out a verification of the regularity of the cassation complaint or protest and if they do not meet the requirements of art. 212 and 213, leaving them motionless and sending a message to the challenger to remove irregularities within 7 days of receipt. Where irregularities are not resolved within the time limit, the Court of First Instance shall return the complaint or protest. (2) The cassation complaint or protest shall be left without consideration by the Court of First Instance on the grounds of art. 215. (3) The Court of First Instance shall decide on the claims for reimbursement of the period of cassation, on the exemption from the State fee, and on the applications for legal aid under the Law on Legal Aid and Applications under art. 166 and 167. (4) If the cassation complaint or protest is regular and there are no grounds under para. 2, the court shall send a copy together with the annexes of the other parties which may submit a reply within 14 days of receipt. The answer may not contain obscene words, insults or threats. (5) After the submission of the reply or after the expiry of the period under para. 4 cases shall be sent to the court of Cassation. (6) The President of the Court of Cassation or its alternates, respectively, the Chair of the department shall exercise control over the verification carried out by the Court of First Instance of the regularity and admissibility of the appeal or protest, such as: 1. if non-compliance with the obligations under para. 1 leave the cassation complaint or protest without movement or send the case to the court of First Instance with specific instructions; 2. if not implemented within the period given instructions for removal of irregularities or any of the grounds under art. 215, the cassation complaint or the protest shall be left untrialed and the proceedings in the case shall be suspended; the court shall also have the same authority in the proceedings. (7) The acts under para. 1 sentence, 2nd, para. 2 and para. 6, p. 2 and acts refusing to exempt from a State charge may be appealed by a private complaint, with no State fee due. A copy of the private complaint shall not be presented if the decision is given prior to the service of a copy of the cassation proceedings. The order of the court of appeal shall be final. (8) Where a decision of a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court is contested by the cassation complaint or protest, the powers under para. 1, 2 and 4 shall be exercised by the Chair of the compartment concerned. (9) In the cases under para. 6, p. 2 and para. 7 costs may be awarded with the order or order if requested and evidence of their payment is provided. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 12. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 13. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 14, with the words "art." 213 (c) shall be replaced by the following: 213 a.m. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 15. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 16. Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. The additional provision establishes a point. 9, 10 and 11: Nine. Incensory words are obscene and inappropriate words used by a party or its representative in the proceedings; 10. Instructions are words or behaviour insulting or affecting the dignity and name of judges or participants in the proceedings; 11. In order to prevent their work, the threats are threatened by words and behaviour which instill fear for judges, administration and participants in the judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u25	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote: the version of § 1, which shall become § 11; the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 12; the text of the importer for paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6, which shall become paragraphs 13, 14, 15 and 16, respectively, and the newly created § 17. Vote 101 MPs: 84 against 9, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u26	"Transitional provision." Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. The complaints brought to the Supreme Administrative Court until the entry into force of this law are dealt with in the current order. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Civil Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 431, para. 4 in the first sentence, the first sentence shall be added as well as when the information is received in accordance with the Law on Electronic Governance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 501a al. 1 is amended as follows: s (1) A movable and immovable property, available securities, a separate part of an undertaking, as well as the rights to industrial property on which implementation is directed, may be sold under the rules of electronic public tender. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions shall be made: (a) in para. 2, in the first sentence, the first sentence shall be added to no more than 48 hours. (b) A new para shall be created. 5. On the first working day following the end of the bidding, the court contractor shall verify all the circumstances of the tender and draw up a protocol with all the details of the requests for participation, authorised and unauthorized bids for the reason, submitted bidding proposals, the existence of technical malfunctions during the bidding, declaring as a buyer the bider who has offered the highest price. By signing the minutes of the court contractor, the electronic auction shall be deemed to be closed. The minutes shall be announced immediately to the bids on the single online platform. c) the current para. 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7; (d) the creation of para. 8. A subsequent electronic auction shall be held under the conditions of art. 494 at the written request of a party in the enforcement proceedings
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u27	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the version of the name of the division; the version of § 7, which becomes § 18 of the Commission Report, and the new § 19. Vote 87 MPs: 77 against 4, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. We're done with that, too. Moving on to point four: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CLEANNESS OF ATMOSFER AIR. Importers are Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2021. Report from the Commission, please come in, Mr. Raykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 154 01-8, submitted by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2021. At a regular meeting held on 4 February 2021, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined at first reading a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 154-01-8, submitted by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2021. The meeting was attended by: Ministry of Environment and Waters
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u29	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u30	On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. He stressed that the submitted bill aims to ensure the effective implementation of the measure to reduce emissions from the transport sector through the establishment of low emission zones. It is proposed in the National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality 2018 " 2024," adopted by Decision No 334 of the Council of Ministers of 7 June 2019. The new provisions allow temporary prohibitions for public use of roads, sections of roads or certain areas of the road network to be introduced. The introduction of temporary bans on the use of municipal roads will result in limiting the movement of polluting vehicles, which will reduce emissions from this source and consequently the concentrations of particulate matter in cities in the days with increased levels of pollutants in the ambient air. Each municipality will be able to implement the measure after a decision of the relevant municipal council, defining the type of most contaminating vehicles and the order to limit their movement. The proposed amendments and the intended fines and charges for offenders and users aim at reducing traffic and redirecting to public transport or the use of cleaner and more environmentally friendly vehicles, thereby significantly improving the quality of urban air. Measures have already been taken to introduce motor vehicle ecotiquers to determine the environmental category of each vehicle, depending on its actual emissions of pollutants in the ambient air. This is one of the possibilities for the practical implementation of the measure by limiting the entry into certain areas of the cities of the most contaminating vehicles. The measure will apply to municipalities where road traffic is more intensive and means of transport have a greater impact on air quality. The introduction of the area will significantly reduce the number of passing cars, eliminating old and polluting cars, which will lead to a significant diversion of transit traffic. The opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water was presented by Mr. Ivan Angelov, who expressed the principle support of the Ministry for taking measures to improve the quality of the air. On behalf of Sofia Municipality Mr. Zafir Zarkov thanked for the proposed bill and stressed that the new regulations allow for the development of municipal regulations through which municipalities will be able to introduce low emission zones according to their needs and the challenges they are facing. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Manol Genov and Ercan Ebatin. Support was given to the Bill, taking into account that a European practice was introduced in this way, which would lead to a reduction in fine dust particles and improved air quality in large cities. The topic with the introduction of fines and sanctions was discussed and the national representative Stanislav Ivanov stressed that they are in line with the law. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water unanimously with 19 votes for abstention and non-restraint proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Air Cleanliness, No 154-01-8, submitted by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Rykov. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Motives of an importer come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u32	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Air Cleaning Act, which entered into force in January 2019, introduced provisions which largely contributed to the municipalities having greater operational autonomy to implement direct measures to limit and prevent two of the main sources of air pollution. This framework, although giving certain powers to municipalities and local authorities, does not allow for a comprehensive, complex and effective implementation of the measures introduced so as to achieve a real and lasting effect leading to improved air cleanliness. These proposals are aimed at supplementing the already existing mechanisms for limiting and preventing two of the main sources of air pollution, thus aiming at removing clarity, accuracy and consistency of the rules and also enabling municipal councils and mayors to implement more effectively the measures and restrictions to exercise strict control in respect of their compliance. The proposals are related to the need to create a legal opportunity to implement and use modern automated equipment or monitoring and control systems to limit air pollution to two of the main sources of pollution and effective control. In addition, a form of interaction and exchange of information between municipalities and individual departments is provided, which will help to achieve better coordination in carrying out their functions and powers. The proposal for amendment and addition to art. 41a is dictated by the need to create a legal opportunity to impose fines when the legal order established with regard to ambient air quality is violated. Effective stations may have a strong deterrent effect which, in turn, has a direct positive impact on the implementation of local policies related to improving air cleanliness. In addition to the above, it is necessary to clarify that according to the National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality emissions from the sector In this regard, measures are proposed in the Programme to reduce emissions from the transport sector. One of the measures is the establishment of low emission zones. The introduction of temporary restrictions in the movement of motor vehicles will reduce emissions from this source and thus the concentrations of fine particulate matter in cities, on the days with increased levels of pollutants in the ambient air. As the measure is applicable to large cities, each municipality will be able to apply it after a decision of the relevant municipal council, defining the type of most polluting vehicles and the order for their movement. The proposed amendments, in view of the penalties and fines envisaged for offenders and the principle possibility of charging charges from use, aim at reducing traffic and redirecting to public transport or the use of new and environmentally friendly vehicles, which will significantly improve the quality of air in cities. The introduction of ecostikers is one of the options for the practical implementation of the low emission zone introduction measure to limit entry and passage into certain areas of cities of polluting vehicles. In municipalities where road traffic is more intense and the means of transport have a greater impact on air quality, the traffic limit in low emission zones may not be year-round, but due to significantly higher concentrations of air pollutants during certain months. In terms of domestic heating. Under the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, low emissions areas for domestic heating may be introduced by limiting the use of certain fuels or certain heating appliances throughout the municipality or of individual parts thereof. From the point of view of the control of compliance with the regime introduced in the low emissions area for domestic heating more acceptable and practically applicable is the option with the introduction of a restriction on fuels used, as it is sufficient to control the technical means of smoke from chimneys without having to enter the housings of citizens. In addition to this approach, it will be easier to control compliance with the commitments not to use solid fuel for heating when replacing household heating appliances under different programmes that are already being implemented. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! I don't know who's present at the Ministry of Environment and Water to congratulate my colleagues. As you can see, colleagues, we in the Commission have, in principle, supported the amendment to the Atmospheric Air Cleansing Act, but accept this agreement or this goodwill at a purely technical and operational level. That is to say, you have our support with regard to the creation of emission zones to increase control over the cleanliness and quality of the atmospheric air. The further and further up we go into the discussion on the principle policy on air quality, the more you will hear our clear remarks, our clear objections and our concerns about the framework of the policy on the protection of air quality. Keep in mind that not only in the discussions with the dozens of representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria. We know that Bulgaria is in a penal procedure with regard to air quality. Are we sure that the measures proposed in this way also help how they help the air quality to get even better? We don't know that for sure. We have to guess because I think there should be a mid-term assessment of the National Air Management Program based on mid-term assessments and action plans of the individual municipal programs. We cannot draw new paths without making at least a medium-term assessment of the road to this point in terms of strategies, national programmes and management plans. If we don't do this and if it's not lodged here at the base of this document, we'll shoot one shot, but it won't go in the right direction. Why am I saying this? Keep in mind that the question I ask and which most Bulgarian citizens ask: did the air become cleaner in Bulgaria, respectively in Sofia as the largest city, to a large extent the question is rhetorical because the answer is cruelly clear to Bulgarian citizens! Sofia in the middle and at the end of last year several times passed Delhi in dirty air. Sofia was the city that headed, as momentary values of air quality, the worst ranking on dirty atmospheric air in the world, not just in Europe. So it's logical to assume that this question is rhetorical. The answer is one thing: the measures that have been carried out so far have not resulted in improving the quality of the atmospheric air precisely because they do not lie on the basis of a manageable, predictable, logical, if you want a scientific and management approach. It is clear to us that the pressure from the Commission and the European Union is serious because Bulgaria continues to be a hot spot on the weather map. This fact obliges us to further refine our actions. Secondly, bear in mind that by attempting to transfer responsibilities with regard to air quality control and management from the national framework to the municipalities, yes, they are an environmental authority, without being secured by a clear mechanism and financial, and technological, and administrative, we are making a rather amorphous proposal, to put it mildly. That is, we are giving a front to the European Commission, which will not work effectively, will not be useful in the volume in which we want, only to be able to report that we have made any changes. I ask for a much, much deeper approach, for a much more serious analysis! After all, we know that the pressure to absorb this serious money from the air management programs is great, but I ask you to be most responsible: let's not do it like highways, let's not do it like roads, let's not do it as repairs! Let's do it from the beginning in such a way that we can be proud of what is happening! There is progress in the implementation of air quality measures, but is this the right approach, is the hundreds of millions being given for electric transport and electric vehicles the solution? Are there other approaches, are there other technologies, are there other ways? So accept our support at the Commission for Goodwill level, for moving forward in the direction of concrete measures, but accept our reservations regarding the framework for air quality management, which for us has been vicious for years. If there is an agreement in the National Assembly, we must come to some more sensible decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Danchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u36	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kostadinov, Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Kostadinov, in your speech you made an address, one request to the importers of changes in the Atmospheric Air Cleanness Act, namely: to this text of the Bill to give an assessment of the National Programme for the Fight against the Dirty Air, to what has been done under this programme so far and possibly to the results achieved, and to give a specific report on the implementation of measures to overcome the problem of the dirty air and you mentioned the clean air in Sofia. I support this request of yours, and I would say that it would be good for the importers and the portfolio committee to which the bill is assigned to ask the Ministry of Environment and Water for the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water on this issue, to seek these two analyses from both the Mayor of Sofia Municipality and the Ministry as an authority under this programme. I would say that especially for Sofia Municipality it will probably be difficult to make such an assessment and such an analysis, because at the very least you should have indicated that there are insufficient measurement stations in Sofia of the Executive Environment Agency for Air Quality. So it's really very difficult to do an analysis of what the state of the atmospheric air is and what part of the year is going on. What we know is that citizens, so to speak, have also been organized through various applications, by handy means and materials themselves explore air cleanliness. What we see and know for sure is that every winter.. especially at the end of December and in January, the air in Sofia and in other major cities remains poisonous. That's why there's this penal procedure that you mentioned. So I ask you to insist once again on these analyses and to really look for the form with which especially in Sofia and in other major cities the air will become as clean as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u37	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Kostadinov, such statistics are actually made. It works, it's public, and anyone can meet it. What I can say is that in 2008 28 of the municipalities -- that is, all municipalities in Bulgaria -- did not meet the criteria for the average daily and average annual rate of particulate pollution with 10 microns, and ten to eleven years later -- in 2019, are 13 municipalities. That is, about half of the municipalities have already complied with these norms, which is a clear indication that the measures taken are working. For each of us, as you said, it is clear that in the largest cities, such as Sofia, more efforts are required and these proposals are precisely in the direction of being able to help with air purification in Sofia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! To the honorable Mr. Shishkov, you may not have heard me, I spoke a little quickly, it may have been vague. I myself said that progress has been made and he is visible. There is a trend to which we have been walking for years, and it improves the quality of the atmospheric air, but we often also apply such techniques that should no longer be applied. I give an example with Sofia to move a station that gives hot results and glows in red from one place to another to start data in the European Environment Agency that has already solved the problem, this is not an approach. There are many such examples in Ruse and many other places. So there's progress, obviously moving forward. With regard to Mr. Danchev's line, I would suggest it, but, frankly, I hadn't thought of that topic because, Mr. Danchev, I don't believe that if we buried our head in the sand, we would breathe cleaner air. It must be very clear the commitment of the national authority, the one who conducts the environmental policy, the Minister and the Ministry of Environment and Water, and the partnership with municipalities. If we don't make this mechanism work and effective, and we just transfer functions from one place to the other, we still won't have a result. That was more my message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Mrs. Vassileva, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I take the floor to express my full support for the bill, which has been tabled by colleagues Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs, to amend and supplement the Law on Air Cleanliness. The specific bill was supported by the Commission for the Environment and Water by all MPs, and I think that this only proves clearly enough for itself the importance of the subject, because we all know that air cleanliness is directly related to human health. As for the discussion on what has been achieved so far, I think we should take account of what has been done over the last few years. Air cleanliness has been formulated as an undisputed priority by the government and the portfolio ministry, and you know that in the last few years alone, a number of measures and actions have been taken not only from a legislative point of view, because we, too, have made a number of legislative changes in the direction of tightening control, in the direction of limiting the pollution caused by the fuels used for domestic heating, changes that aim to refine the responsibilities, the commitments of municipalities, a clear description of the actions to be taken and the measures. One of those measures that we introduced was the commitment of municipalities to define the so-called low emission zones if there is a disturbance in the quality of the air in certain areas of the settlements. This is the effort that fellow Members have undertaken with their legislative initiative to clearly and specifically regulate the possibility for municipalities, through their own regulations, to define such areas with the introduction of specific measures addressed specifically to specific conditions in cities and pollutants, and in particular where there is a need to limit the movement of motor vehicles. With regard to what has been achieved, I think that no one can deny the fact that, yes, there is a positive trend, yes, there is still much work to be done, although the results, the data that are registered by both the Environment Executive Agency and the European Environment Agency speak for themselves about what they have achieved, namely at the moment from the 28 agglomerations in the penal procedure, 9 cover the mid-day norm, 19 in the past year were in line with the requirements for the average annual norm. Many investments have also been invested in improving urban transport systems and in measures relating to the replacement of the fuel base of individual households. Of course, like I said, there's still a lot of work to do and it needs to be done. As far as specific impact analyses and assessments are concerned, I think that each of our colleagues can get acquainted with both national programmes that have only been adopted in the last two years, namely the programme by 2024 to improve air quality in the country and by 2030 to limit air pollutants. In this sense, I would like to appeal to a responsible attitude and, of course, support from all MPs for the measures that we all together as a society must make to improve the quality of the atmospheric air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Vassileva, yes, you are absolutely right. You must take appropriate measures to improve the level of air cleanliness. Perhaps one of the failures we see is that, in discussing this law, it was right for this expert to attend the minister, but this is understandable. The only thing that, Mrs. Vassileva, I address to you is yes, it is good, we have to do it, it has to happen, but it seems that financial security for the municipalities is missing, even in the budget. So by establishing their rights and activities to carry out municipalities, we must also provide the necessary funding. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u45	Thank you. Hole, Mrs. Vassileva, come in. I ask the MPs to put on their masks!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Bonev! I fully agree with the fact that the measures to be taken in implementation of both the National Programme and the municipal programs, because municipalities also prepare their municipal programs and lay down specific measures, responsibilities and commitments in them, must be financially secured. Of course, within the limits of their capabilities, municipalities allocate funds, you know that very well, but you also know that under the Operational Programme "Environment" in the first programming period, serious funds were allocated for the replacement of vehicles in urban transport. You know the initiatives for improving the urban environment through the Operational Programme "Regional development and investment" in Sofia Municipality, you also know about the efforts that were made during the second programming period, as I quoted with specific projects that were supported, to municipalities, namely for the preparation of their municipal programs, for the implementation of measures to replace the stoves, which are used for domestic heating with more ecological fuel. Of course, this will continue, continue during the new programming period, including the establishment and sustainability plan, there are specific measures that are linked to improving energy efficiency and this has a direct impact on improving the quality of the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness, No 154-01-8, submitted by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2021. They voted 105 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item five of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF CIVIL AIRCRAFT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. Adopted in first vote on 20 January 2021. The Second Reading Report will introduce us to Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u48	Madam President, thank you. If you allow me, a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Maria Kaleva Head of the Department of Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u49	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 89 MPs: 83, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u50	The Law on Civil Aviation is amended and supplemented by the Law on Civil Aviation. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following 1. In para. 4 after the words "the Regulation (EU) 2018/1139" shall be added as well as the implementing regulations and delegated regulations adopted on the basis thereof and the word "theirs" shall be replaced by "theirs." 2. The creation of para. 5. s (5) The Directorate-General for Civil Aviation is the competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 376/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the reporting, analysis and follow-up of civil aviation events, amending Regulation (EU) No 996/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2003/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Regulations (EC) No 1321/2007 and (EC) No 1330/2007 (OJ L 122/18 of 24 April 2014). , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 376/2014.' The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Point 2 is repealed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "normals, rules and procedures" shall be replaced by "normals and rules." 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the words "the permissions and licences under this law" shall be replaced by "the authorisations, certificates, licenses and examination of declarations." 4. They're creating a t. 18 and 19: 18. lay down by regulation the conditions and procedures for reporting, analysis and follow-up of civil aviation events; 19. in agreement with the Minister of Home Affairs and with the Chairman of the State Agency The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, i.e. 3 concerning para. 8, the words "in accordance with the' shall be replaced by "in the application of'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, i.e. 1 the words "synthesis' shall be replaced by the text before the letter "s'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16e, para. The airport operator's decision under art. 6 shall be added at the The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16f The following 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. The first sentence is amended as follows: The applications for the issue of licences, authorisations, certificates, certificates, certificates, declarations or other documents shall be submitted to the Directorate-General for Public Aviation Administration and shall be dealt with within 30 days. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The Director-General of the Directorate-General for Air Transport shall be able to authorise officials to issue or withdraw authorisations, certificates, certificates, certificates, declarations or other documents. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u51	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the text of the importer for the name of the Law; the version of § 1 and § 2 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 3 with the corresponding amendment; the text of the importer for § 4; the text of the importer for § 5 with the corresponding change; the version of § 6 of the Commission Report; the version of § 7 of the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for paragraphs 8, 9 and 10. Vote 84 MPs: 74, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u52	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 11: ..................................................... Article 1 (1) (a) is replaced by the following: 16c and 16c: Art. 16 with The Known Sender develops, implements and maintains a security programme approved by the Director-General of the General Directorate of the Air Administration. Art. 16. Security officers shall be appointed after: 1. have successfully completed a comprehensive inspection carried out by the State Agency "National Security" according to the criteria set out in the National Civil Aviation Security Programme; 2. access to the security areas of the civil airports of the security officers carrying out their duties at the airport shall be agreed with the Directorate General of Border Police. 3. are approved by the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation by the criteria set out in the National Programme for Civil Aviation Security Training and Certification. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 12 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 15, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 2, in the text before t. 1 the words "Foreign aircraft" shall be replaced by "Interest aircraft." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 15, and shall be replaced by the text before that. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u53	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the version of § 11 of the Commission Report; the rejection of § 12; the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 12; the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 13; the version of § 15, which becomes § 14 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 15 with the corresponding change; and the text of the importer for § 17, which becomes § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u54	88 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 12. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u55	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 18, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 after the word......................................................................................... 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the word "opening" shall be replaced by the issuing of certificates to training organisations and the "opening" shall be replaced by the word "opening" shall be replaced by the issuing of certificates to training organisations. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 after the word "supplier" is a comma and is added to the training organisations. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the words the crew members shall be added to the cabin crew attestations. 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 after the words the crew members shall be added to the cabin crew attestations. 6. They're creating a t. 7? 11: "7." the conditions and arrangements for issuing a certificate to an approved training organisation; 8. the conditions and procedures for issuing a certificate to a cabin crew training organisation; 9. the requirements to be met by the AeMCs and AeMCs; 10. the arrangements for the approval of language competence assessment organisations for civil aviation needs; 11. the requirements to be met by the declared training organisations. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 19. Under § 21, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 21. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 2 words to the aircraft type air navigation manual shall be replaced by an approved by the Director-General of the General Directorate of the Air Administration. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 22, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "flight spaces" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2: (a) points 2 and 3 are amended as follows: "2." international general aviation service airports; 3. airports for general-purpose aviation services against payment or without payment, as well as for the technological needs of the owner without payment; (b) To be created t. 4. "4." airports other than commercial air transport, with aircraft with a maximum take-off mass of less than 5700 kg for payment or without payment, as well as for the owner's technological needs without payment; the limit for maximum take-off mass does not apply to piles. 3. In para. 4 the words, as well as those serving international services, shall be deleted. 4. Alinea 7 is canceled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 24, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 43h: Art. 43z. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall determine the types of air traffic services, including flight information services. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 25, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: . (1) The General Directorate of the Civil Aviation Administration shall certify the suitability of civil airports and navigation facilities. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) The conditions and procedures for attesting the suitability of airports, navigation systems and facilities, as well as the requirements for those sites, shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29 which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u56	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for § 18, which shall become § 17; the text of the importer for paragraphs 19 and 20, which shall become paragraphs 18 and 19 respectively; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 21, which shall become § 22; the version of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 22; the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 24 and 25, which shall become 23 and 24 respectively; and the text of the importer for paragraphs 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, respectively, which shall become paragraphs 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 respectively. Vote 89 MPs: 78, none, abstention 11. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u57	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 33, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 in a sentence, first after the words................................................................................................................... is added...................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 36, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 The special purpose flights shall be carried out by the State-owned operator a legal person led by a Director-General who is a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, whose maintenance shall be made up of budgetary resources and revenue from their own activities. The provisions of the Administration Act do not apply to the State Service Operator. 2. In para. 3 the words "Avio Squad 28" shall be replaced by "State Operator." 3. In para. 4 the words "Avio Squad 28" shall be replaced by "State Operator." 4. In para. 5 the words "Avio Squad 28" shall be replaced by "State Operator." 5. In para. 6 the words "Avio Squad 28" shall be replaced by "State Operator." 6. In para. 8 all over the word "Avio Team 28" is replaced by "State Operator." Under § 37 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 37. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 37, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4. (a) c. 1 the words "airports' shall be deleted; (b) point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. issue of certificates of aviation training centres, certificates of approved training organisations, certificates of an approved language competence assessment organisation for civil aviation needs, and examination of declarations under Commission Regulation (EU) No 2018/1119 of 31 July 2018 amending Regulation (EU) No 1178/2011 as regards declared training organisations (OJ L 204/13 of 13 August 2018) and Regulation (EU) 2018/1139; (c) c. 9 the words "Signature of national air operator certificates for specialised operations and permissions to carry out high-risk specialised commercial operations' shall be replaced by "Signature of certificates to aviation operators, permits for high-risk commercial operations, national certificates for air operator, a list of specific approved operations' and the words "al'. Each Member State shall ensure that the following conditions are met: the following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (d) point 13 is repealed; (e) points 21 and 22 are amended as follows: ..21. confirmation, recognition or re-issue of licences, certificates, attestations, certificates, authorisations, declarations and certificates, including issued by a third country; 22. carrying out compliance checks, re-certification, certification or amendment of licences, certificates, certificates, certificates, authorisations, approvals or declarations; (f) point 27 is amended as follows: "27." issue of an AeMC certificate or AME, approval of an organisation conducting aviation medicine courses, review of a declaration of professional professionals; (g) create a t. 28 s 32: It's 28. carrying out theoretical examinations of aviation personnel and issuing certificates of successful theoretical examinations; 29. issue and extension of the validity of the approval for the use of a simulator or simulator; 30. issue of approvals to a regulated agent (regulated agent), known consignor, regulated provider of flight goods, and designation of an air carrier as an air carrier of cargo or mail carrying out carriage from an airport to a third country to the territory of the European Union. 31. approval of security programmes for operators and persons obliged to develop, implement and maintain a security programme; 32. registration of an operator of an unmanned flight system according to art. 14 (5) of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/947, issue of a certificate for the operator of a light pilot-free flight system (s), authorisation for use in a specific category; authorisation for the operation of an unmanned flight system in clubs and associations of aircraft modeling, as well as examination of declarations, under conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down in art. 16a, t. 19............................................................................................ 2. The creation of para. 9. The airport charges referred to in paragraph 1 (a) and (b) of this Article shall not apply to the airport charges referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 and interest on them determined by the order of the ordinance under art. 122, para. 1 are public government claims when collected in the cases under para. 5, t. 1 or when they are collected at a civil airport for public use, State ownership which is enjoyed by an airport operator, a commercial company in which the State is the sole owner of the capital.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u58	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 31; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 33, which becomes § 32; the text of the importer for paragraphs 34 and 35, which becomes paragraphs 33 and 34; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 36, which becomes § 35; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 37, which becomes § 36. Vote 87 MPs: 82, none, abstention 5. The proposed texts have been adopted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u59	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for points 1 and 2 and shall not support it. 3 and proposes the following version for § 38, which becomes § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words of the Minister of Finance shall be deleted. 2. In para. The second sentence is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u60	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 38, which shall become § 37. Vote 84 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 5. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u61	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 41. Under § 43, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 43. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organisation and the activities of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 4 the words "alcoholic or other tranquilizer' are replaced by "reactive'; (b) c. 5 the words "alcoholic or other tranquilizer' shall be replaced by "actively'; (c) point 20 is amended as follows: It's 20. allow to conduct or operate a flight with an unmanned controlled aircraft in the airspace of the Party without the appropriate authorisation, where required, and/or in breach of the applicable regulatory requirements, the procedures in its documentation. 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 1 after the words................................................................................................... (b) c. 3 after the words (c) c. 4 a comma is inserted after the words........................................................................................................... (d) c. 7 a comma is inserted after the words........................................................................................................... (e) create a t. 14? 17: It's 14 years old. an aerodrome operator, ground handling operator, regulated agent (regulated agent), known consignor, air navigation service provider and air operator who hires or entrusts a person at national or local level to perform the functions of a security officer, in breach of the requirements of art. 16th; 15. an aerodrome operator, ground handling operator, regulated agent (regulated agent), known consignor, air navigation service provider and air operator who allows natural persons to carry out or to be responsible for carrying out security checks, access controls or other security controls before having successfully completed an overall inspection by the State Agency; 16. an aerodrome operator, ground handling operator, regulated agent (regulated agent), known consignor, air navigation service provider and aircraft operator who allows a person who has not successfully completed an overall check, without accompanying, to air cargo and mail, to mail and air carrier material, to flight supplies and goods intended for aerodromes to which the required security controls have been applied; 17. airport operator, ground handling operator, regulated agent (regulated agent), known consignor, air navigation service provider and air operator who allows a person who is not approved by the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation (Air Administration) or does not hold a certificate of competence to carry out aviation security training. 3. In para. 6, p. 10 the words "six-year term" shall be replaced by "six-year term" up to two months. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) Punishable with a fine from 3000 to 10 000 BGN. or a penalty of 3,000 to 30,000 BGN is imposed. in person by art. 2 paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) No 2018/1139, which has failed or failed to fulfil its obligations under that Regulation and the delegated and implementing regulations adopted on the basis of that Regulation within the time limit. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 46, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 3 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Point 14 is repealed. 2. A t is created. 14a: 14a. Air traffic flights for specialised operations (AW) or flights other than commercial air transport (CAT) are flights. 3. They're creating a t. 75 - 90: It's 75. The competent authority of the issuing Member State shall inform the other Member States of any change to the information provided by the competent authority of the issuing Member State in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article. 76. "Full legal supplier of flight goods' is a person whose procedures comply with common rules and security standards sufficient to deliver supplies of goods intended for flight directly on board an aircraft. 77. "Field flight information service" is a service-information service and an emergency and announcement service of the traffic at an airport. 78. He is a pilot pilot with training for the post appointed as commander and responsible for the safe conduct of the flight for the purposes of commercial air transport operations. 79. "Aviomedical Expert (AME)'is a doctor who has the necessary qualifications for the pursuit of a medical profession and completed specialist training in aviation medicine authorised by the Directorate General for Transport and Aviation Administration to conduct medical examinations of pilots, cabin crew and air traffic controller (ATC) in the territory of the country, as required by Commission Regulation (EU) No 1178/2011 of 3 November 2011 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures related to civil aviation crews in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 311 of 25 November 2011) pursuant to Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/340 of 20 February 2015 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures relating to air traffic controllers' licences and certificates pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council, amending Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 923/2012 and repealing Commission Regulation (EU) No 805/2011 (OJ L 63, 6 March 2015) . 80. It is a verification of the identity and background of a person, including his or her judicial record, as part of the assessment of whether the person should obtain access without security to restricted access areas. 81. It is an active substance of alcohol, opioids, cannabinoids, sedatives and sleeping pills, cocaine, other psychostimulants, hallucinogens and volatile solvents, excluding caffeine and tobacco. 82. A defined area is defined where aircraft are located for the purpose of boarding or landing passengers, loading or unloading mail or cargo, fuelling, parking or maintenance. 83. The airport is an airport at which traffic control services are provided, whether or not there is a controlled area. 84. The Security Officer shall be a person entrusted and responsible for the security programme of the operator or entity at national or local level and shall comply with the applicable civil aviation security requirements. 85. A commercial air transport is a flight of an aircraft for the carriage of passengers, cargo or mail for payment or other remuneration. 86. A trade operation is an operation carried out against remuneration and/or at the expense of the other party. 87. The airport is an airport intended for the entry and departure of international air traffic and where customs, health, veterinary, phytosanitary and other procedures are carried out. 88. It is an unmanned aircraft and its remote control equipment. 89. The operator of an unmanned flight system (s) shall be any legal or natural person operating or registered to operate one or more BLS. 90. A remote pilot (remote pilot) shall be a natural person responsible for the safe conduct of the flight of an unmanned aircraft by managing its flight indicators manually or when the unmanned aircraft flies in automatic mode (s) following its course and at any time being able to intervene and change the course.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u62	We stop at the "Transitional and final provisions." Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer supported by the Commission for paragraphs 39, 40, 41, 42, which shall become paragraphs 38, 39, 40, 41 respectively; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 43; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 44, which shall become § 43; the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 44; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 46, which shall become § 45. They voted 92 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 19. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u63	"Transitional and final provisions' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission does not support the text of importers and proposes that § 47 be rejected. Under § 48, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 48. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 48, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The aviation operator "Avionics 28" shall be renamed the State Aviation Operator. (2) The activity, budget, assets, liabilities, archive and other rights and obligations of the air operator Unfinished legal proceedings shall be continued by the State Air Operator at the date of entry into force of this Act until their completion in all instances. (3) The work activities of the managers and employees of the air operator "Avionics 28" shall be governed under the conditions of art. 123 of the Labor Code. (4) The State Aviation Operator shall enter into the rights and obligations of the Air Transport Operator under the contracts it has concluded, including operational programmes financed by European Union funds. (5) The Director-General of the Air Transport Operator 28 shall continue to exercise his powers as Director-General of the State Aviation Operator from the date of entry into force of this Act. Under § 49, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 49. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 49, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the owners of the flight sites shall submit an application to the Directorate-General for Aviation Administration for the classification of the airport in accordance with art. 43, para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 49. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. The provisions of § 3, t. Paragraph 21, § 24, § 25, § 26, § 36, point 1 letter.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1 and 2 enter into force 12 months after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u64	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision; the Commission proposal for the rejection of § 47 by importer; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 48, which shall be § 46; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 49, which shall become § 47; the text of the importer for paragraphs 50 and 51, which shall become paragraphs 48 and 49 respectively; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 52, which shall become § 50. They voted 112 MPs: 79, none, abstention 33. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. [[National Representative Stanislav Ivanov raises his hand and wants the floor.]] I've noticed you, Mr. Ivanov, since you raised your hand just keep a little patience. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u65	Dear Bulgarian citizens! Kovid's crisis has its consequences for the economy, for unemployment and low incomes, but it also has its mark on the education system. The crisis has proven the need to use computers, network training, Internet access in every settlement. The future is undoubtedly the digitalization and use of high technology in the training process, but no less important than how our children learn is the question of what they are learning? By preparing our program together with a team of teachers, Chitalishte figures, intellectuals, we reviewed the content of Bulgarian textbooks. There are shocking things inside that cripple the preparation of our children. Do you remember the beautiful poem of Pencho Slaveykov? I'm only going to read you a few lines to remind you of what this is about: First Libby, first Sevdo, don't yearn, don't moan, That Kyle didn't become my father, your mother for us. True words, true love, is there corruption for them? For hearts that love and death is not a parting. Dear Bulgarian citizens, in the 7th grade textbook of Bulgarian schools, this wonderful poem for love is taught as follows: I told her a thousand times that this boy is a jerk and is not for her. I'll split them up at any cost. How come they're not ashamed of love, they're still children?! I have to report it to the principal.! [[Radio.]] Do you remember Elin Pelin's unique account of harvest? Beautiful! "Strengthened reaping boils along the equal Sophia field..." How many words, prayerful and clean, have been plucked from the refreshed village souls! - God help us, let's work... But here she comes... a barefoot kid, and she scared the hell out of her mouth that Penka was dying of heat... Oh, my God! Victim again! If you had hit a city, you wouldn't have killed hearts like that! This account, esteemed rulers, is presented in the 7th grade textbook in the following way as a living situation: Most often until an accident in the workplace leads to pressure, crushing and crushing of something. The second cause of severe trauma is a fall from height. [[Laughter]] Next are electric shocks and earth mass build-up.....In the harvest of Elin Pelin.................................. by Elin Pelin....................................................................................................! Last example of the unforgettable Patriarch Ivan Vazov and the wonderful poem of the Bulgarian language, which can give self-confidence to all of us that he is Bulgarian. A tongue sacred to my ancestors he calls it. Did anyone understand how beautiful, how powerful you are hiding in your speech flexible, belligerent, of ruinous tones what splendor, what expanse and expression alive, and the advantages of the Bulgarian language for the seventh grade sound like this: "Present number two." While traveling, Bulgarians can discuss whatever they want without others understanding them. This is the undoubted advantage of the Bulgarian language. Dear Bulgarian citizens, the textbooks of our students are written complicated and incomprehensible. The historical facts are distorted by political interpretations, the glory of the Bulgarian people is reduced, and the uniqueness of Bulgarian classics, which have been translated into dozens of languages around the world, is reduced to humiliating domesticisms. For this replacement of the truth and humiliation of Bulgaria we Bulgarian taxpayers and citizens pay between 50 and 60 million for textbooks. That has to change, and that can change. We are often asked what we understand by changing the management model. Here's the thing. So far, we are giving more and more money for textbooks, and we are giving more and more money for textbooks. The result of this: one class in our country teaches three different textbooks; the content becomes more complicated and unrelated to reality; the state escapes its commitments in education; private and unknown teams write these things and are not responsible for what our children teach. The final result: Bulgarians are increasingly illiterate. According to the research, nearly 40% of our children are functionally illiterate. And here's how it's going to be: one textbook for one class at a time across the country; a review of the content and bringing it to an understanding and satisfying age of the students and patriotic. [[GERB lines.]] The textbooks will be written by state institutions and the authors will be responsible for what is written. Dear teachers, you deserve extreme respect for your work, but we know that many of you are also dissatisfied with this system of education for our children. Dear parents, the Bulgarian family has always given kindness and pleasure to study their children.. The educated person is a realized person. Together we can help our children to be realized people with self-esteem. Together we can preserve the Bulgarians.. We can make this change. I know we can do this. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u66	Declaration please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Ninova, you started by saying that the pandemic had an impact on all sectors. That's right! The pandemic has taken us all by surprise. The fact is, however, that during this year and last year we all received a different, more real look at the role of teacher, kindergarten, school and university. The fact is that during this year and last year the Bulgarian children and young people asked to return to the classrooms and to the audiences. The fact is that the distance learning that is going on right now has put Bulgaria at one of the top places in education, because many European countries are currently transmitting homework, but they cannot talk about learning in an electronic environment from a distance at all. It is also a fact that it was the Bulgarian teachers who performed a revolution in Bulgarian education, for which I thank them immensely, and all colleagues from GERB. The fact is that parents have also become partners and participants in the educational process - something that we have all been working for for decades, but has never happened. All good things in education. Since you talked about failure, I'll tell you a few numbers. Only for this term of management of GERB and of the United Patriarchs, the funds invested in education, for example, for infrastructure, exceed a billion. [[Applause from GERB.]] The funds for teachers' salaries, because we all talk that the teacher should be supported, but only during the management of Oresharski for the past 10 years have we zero percent increase in uniform cost standards and teachers' salaries. Zero percent in Oresharski time, Mrs. Ninova! I'll tell you: the wages for 2021 are 360 million extra. Four hundred and fifty leva is the minimum salary of the teachers in the beginning of the management of GERB in 2009. Four hundred and fifty leva! Today this minimum wage is BGN 1260 and BGN 1700. is the average salary for teachers! [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I can continue to talk a lot about changes in education, about educational reforms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u68	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u69	You've hit a subject that shouldn't be politicized, Mrs. Ninova. I'll just tell you that you certainly didn't read the Preschool and School Education Act, although it was adopted five years ago. But the textbooks are written by teachers, by teachers; they are appreciated by all teachers; they are appreciated by scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; this is what we bet with your colleagues in the last term before the minister confirmed them. However, what you missed to say about the textbooks and what you wrote in your program is what is the publishing office that will publish this textbook and why you believe that all children in the country are the same. Something else I'm going to finish with because I don't think we should lower the debate on education to the level that you did. One more thing about textbooks. Yes, it is this ruling majority that bet in the curriculum and in the textbooks the study of the history of communism that we owe to the Bulgarian children, to the new generations, because history must be known. Even if you deny it, it's something we've been fighting for for years and it's already a fact. Because, yes, we know that democracy has taken you a lot, but it has taken those young people who today have the opportunity to attend our meeting, gives a lot of people the freedom to choose, gives freedom to live, and we have a duty to ensure that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u70	I'm calling a recess in thirty minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work. Before we start looking at the next item of the Work Programme, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure to shorten the deadline of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on Air Cleanliness to five days.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u73	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 73 MPs: 64 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u74	I haven't been able to vote, Mr. Chairman, I'm asking for a re-vote. Before that, I'm asking for a name check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-10.u75	Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- missing Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov- absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Alexandrov Alexandrov - absent Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- absent Sincerely Vasilev Veselinov- absent Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova- absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- absent Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Rosen Malinov Malinov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- absent Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov- absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov- here Simeon Hristov Simeonov- absent Slavi Dichev Netzov- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva- missing Spas Georgiev Gurnevski- here Save Yanev Panchev- here Stanislav Ivanov Popov- here Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stay Mitev Stoynov- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Stoyan Radkov Bojinov- absent Tanner Mehmed Ali is missing. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Thomas Nikolov Tomov- absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev- absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov- absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent One hundred and eighteen people are in the room. Is there anyone who hasn't checked in? Mr. Panchev, you've been marked. We can't continue the hearing. The next regular plenary session of 9 p.m. on 11 February 2021. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
