ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to make a brief announcement in connection with the fires in the Rhodopes, as I heard yesterday that a Member of the National Assembly again accuses us of bringing the leadership's attention to the fires, but we have not reacted. I would like to make it clear that I reached out to the Prime Minister on Wednesday. He assured me that the situation calmed down that nothing required his presence in plenary, as well as the fire chief or some minister. Yesterday I heard from him again, I am in constant contact and I have made a request at the moment when there is some danger or something important to report to the National Assembly, he should come to the National Assembly with the relevant competent officials and report to the National Assembly. Thank you. Let's start with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u2	May I have the word?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u3	You want the Constitutional floor? On the basis of art. Article 83 of the Constitution and Article 83 of the Constitution. 59 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Minister of Defence wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want the floor in relation to false statements, which were uttered by the parliamentary tribune and subsequently published in the Bulgarian media. What's this about? It is about the fact that the caretaker government and I, as defence minister, have been accused of negotiating for the purchase of aircraft, is responsible for F-16 fighters. What's the truth? The caretaker government neither negotiates to buy new 8 F-16 Block 70 fighters nor has the right to do so. The Air Force Modernization Project is one of the priority investment intentions of the Ministry of Defence. As you know, its realization and implementation of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 7a of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria the two parliaments adopted decisions which approved the Project for Investment Expenditure "Actributing a new type of combat aircraft" and subsequently its update "Accepting a new type of combat plane." This is a decision of the National Assembly, which is promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 51 of 19 June 2018. The main design of the project is the acquisition of 16 aircraft of one type in one configuration. Its implementation is planned to take place in two stages: the first one for the acquisition of 8 aircraft, and the second one for the acquisition of another 8 aircraft. At the beginning of 2019 four contracts were signed between the governments of Bulgaria and the United States of America to purchase eight F 16 Block 70 aircraft and related equipment, services and weapons. Following the deadlines of the planned processes set by the 43rd and 44th Parliament for the acquisition of a total of 16 aircraft, the Ministry of Defence continues the preparation for the implementation of the second stage of the project. Therefore, the only possible approach now is the sending of a request letter and only after receiving the reply from the American side, which would take six to eight months can be prepared Project for investment expenditure with detailed parameters such as price, range, payment method, amount of contributions, delivery deadlines and so on. After the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project by Parliament, of course, in case Parliament decides to approve such a project, it may proceed to the signing of a contract that will be implemented only after the National Assembly approves it and gives it the green light. So in this case, ladies and gentlemen, what the Ministry of Defense and I have done as Secretary of Defense is to send a letter for further information. Without this information, the National Assembly cannot decide whether to buy or not to buy eight more F-16 Block 70 aircraft. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I want to move on. Hence, from this tribune, accusations were made that we almost paid, the caretaker government almost put money in the budget and so on. There's no such thing! We are the caretaker government, the administration must function and the projects for modernization of the Bulgarian Army must move. The final decision on what, how and when to happen, at what cost it is yours to become Members of the National Assembly. I would also like to remind you that when the first F-16 aircraft were bought, an advance payment was made. The decision of the National Assembly was for a deferred payment, nevertheless an advance payment has been made, so very much please do not transfer the problems from the sick to the healthy head. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Moreover, under the terms of the Foreign Military Sales Program of the United States, the sending of such a request letter does not oblige in any way the Ministry of Defence, neither the Bulgarian State, nor the legal or financial State to acquire the platforms and equipment for which it is prepared. This document does not give rise to any commitment either to the Ministry or to the State to sign a contract. I'd like to announce to you that I've made a deliberate request on this particular matter to the American side. I have received an official reply, namely, I repeat that neither the Ministry of Defence, the Government, the State, nor the Parliament, in any way, has Bulgaria engaged financially and legally. The final decision when, at what conditions and at what price Bulgaria will contact its squadron with F 16 Block 70 is within the powers and responsibilities, I repeat: only of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would like to say something else: when the National Assembly decides to buy eight F16 planes from the military's point of view and military planning, it is as if you were allowed to take half a horse. Half a horse doesn't work, ladies and gentlemen. One squadron consists of between 14 and 16 planes. If Bulgaria wants to have the ability to guard its sky, it must have a squadron that consists between 14 and 16 aircraft. I, as Minister of Defence, made a commitment to work to continue the implementation of the projects for modernization of the Bulgarian Army, that is what I am doing. That's what I'm trying to tell you. I mentioned that the previous eight F 16 were paid in advance, the next eight F-16 will not be paid in advance. How they will be paid will you decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u5	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In accordance with art. 59, para. 2 each parliamentary group may express an attitude towards the Minister's statement. You're entitled to two minutes. There is such a people? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u6	Honourable President, Members of the House, Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister, thank you for the clarification regarding the modernisation of the Bulgarian Army, the projects and, above all, the specific project for the acquisition of a new multi-purpose aircraft. It is true that this has already been set before with the decision you have pointed out about a squadron. It is very important in this case that the additional aircraft in the conversation process, depending on the procedures, answers, inquiries and so on, are in the same configuration so that they can perform the tasks. We believe that this project, as well as the other two projects for the battalion battle group and the already launched project for the Navy, are extremely important for the modernization of the Bulgarian Army and the development of its capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u7	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I'll start where you came from. First of all, eight planes are buying half a horse right. In the beginning, when General Rumen Radev was preparing the project in 2014 - 2015 it was written: 8 plus 8 in the second stage. The project is set at 8 plus 8 by the leadership of the Air Force 2014 - 2015, adopted by the management of the Bulgarian Army, by the Ministry of Defence during several mandates. That's why it's 8 plus 8. If you don't know that, at least look at the story. That the next planes will not be paid at once, it is clear. Already in 2019 they were paid at once, for the simple reason that Bulgaria did not have, so to speak, credit history with the United States and for this reason they had to be paid at once, and this already allows for both concessions and a deferred payment by the Department of Defence of the United States. So this is absolutely true. As is absolutely true that for the road map set by the governments of GERB and the decisions of the National Assembly, as you quoted them quite correctly, and that is exactly what we said yesterday. You should be familiar with the statement we made yesterday that you are actually following this procedure. Let's figure out what LOR for LOA you sent. This is a request for a binding offer. Yeah, it doesn't bring any government commitments. Yes, its receipt also does not bind the state, but this is now a draft contract that can be signed after the project for investment expenditure in the National Assembly is approved. Or say it as a simple example. If you enter a mobile operator's store and want an offer for a new contract, they give you. If you sign, it's your decision. You can ask your family if they let you sign it. More or less on a much larger scale, the principle is the same: they send a contract if we sign it, we sign it if not. And the question of money is a bit like Schrodinger's cat. Of course there is no money in the budget now, but they must be foreseen in the long-term financial forecast, because the payments for a possible contract will start from 2024 onwards. I mean, if there's no funding planned for the coming years, then that would be a problem. And that there's no money, of course there isn't, because the payments will be in four years. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u10	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! It is a paradox that it is the political party GERB spoke on this topic. I'm not gonna get into the debate, shouldn't I, shouldn't these planes, which planes, something that's already passed. But given that, thanks to your majority, eight planes have been bought from the poorest country in the European Union on paper that will come in three years, it is a complete paradox, equal to the fact that you are currently asking this question. It is natural that when there are eight plus eight, this is how it should be done, but you should comment on this subject, given that you have put the state into such absurdity, excuse me very much, but at least try to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u11	Mr. Gutsanov? Mrs. Kirova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u12	...lower and lower. It is natural that the procedure must be continued, and it is natural that, when a deal has started, it will be finalized to the end, but see where it should start and under what economic conditions it was signed? [[a line from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov: "Can you address the Minister? "]] There is no such case in the history of military art anywhere in the world, what you have done. You've opened a new leaf. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u13	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Panayotov, I would like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" to express support for the actions of Minister Panayotov as a minister of service who actually implements the adopted by the National Assembly "Program 2020" and Programme 2032. It is a very separate issue, which we will discuss shortly that neither Programme 2020 nor Programme 2032 are good programmes for the re-arming of the Bulgarian Army for many reasons. One reason is that there is no complex approach because the acquisition of the F-16 plane without the prior acquisition of three coordinate digital radars makes the effectiveness of F-16 extremely low and endangers the security of Bulgaria. Continuing the operation of anti-aircraft missile complexes older than me, which are absolutely incompatible with NATO's integrated anti-aircraft and missile defence system, is a real risk to Bulgaria's security. This has been proven, honourable Members, during the operation in Kosovo, when the National Assembly adopted F-16 planes to fly over Bulgaria and all Bulgarian radars, all Bulgarian missile missile complexes to be excluded, as they pose a risk for flying F-16 aircraft and their antiradial protection, which was a precedent. NATO has made commitments to Bulgaria's security without being a NATO member so that we can shut down these systems, which means that the acquisition of the planes that will come 2023, if Bulgaria has no new anti-missile complexes and new radars by then, we will have a big problem. This is just an example of why these programmes, which we will be debating in a moment, are not well thought out either financially or in terms of industrial cooperation or in terms of taking out the old technique, which will be unusable in the presence of the new technique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u15	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u16	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm torn up where to start. Mr. Minister, I listened very carefully to what you said. Of course, you, as head of the Military Ministry and as a minister of service, who needs to make the transition from a regular to a next regular government and cabinet, are right in that the Military Office has to work, the administration to work and have a smooth transition from one to the next regular government. I will remind you of only one fact, because we, in this Chamber, are politicians, the electorate has sent us here to be politicians and, above all, we have to think like politicians, and especially as parliamentarians. The forty-fourth National Assembly began precisely with scandals, accusations without arguments, of course, and the creation of a Commission to investigate the actions of a public office should be acquired n in number of fighters, "Gripen" or "F-16" or any other. I suggest the following: to be moderate in our speeches and not to allow the next National Assembly, because it seems that there will be elections, not to start again with scandals precisely whether these eight new fighters should be acquired. Of course, it is necessary for the modernization of the Bulgarian Army, but in these conditions, I do not know if it is necessary to bother the Bulgarian society with topics at all, I repeat, which are not irrelevant, but I do not know if this is the time to talk about these fighters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u17	Your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u18	There are much more important topics. Of course, I appeal to all the parliamentary groups, so let us be a little more moderate in our speeches and speak with facts rather than accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u19	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I would like to express the satisfaction of your exhibition. As I have heard from the speeches of colleagues, your actions do not in fact cause particular tensions or contradictions in the political forces represented in the National Assembly. In fact, you are following a procedure which started several mandates ago in the National Assembly, which is approved by the Bulgarian Parliament and rather you deserve support for maintaining the consistency of this entire procedure. My remark may be in the direction that you should inform the public and parliament more in time about the steps you have taken. In part, in part, I would have found reason and guilt in the National Assembly, because there was some delay in the formation of the committees, you could have appeared in due time to the Defence Committee and informed the MPs through us the public. Clearly, the reason for this delay was in you. Once again, I confirm that we are satisfied with your response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u21	Thank you. That concludes this procedure. We are moving on to a debate on the questioning of the MPs Velizar Shalamanov and Kaloyan Yankov to the Minister of Defence Georgi Panayotov on the realization of the Program for the Development of Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2032 and an assessment of the implementation of the Program for the Development of Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020. The question by Velizar Shalamanov and Kaloyan Yankov was answered at the meeting on 13 August 2021. At the same meeting 50 MPs from the parliamentary groups of There is such a people and have tabled a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the Draft Decision. The debates are scheduled for today's plenary session. The proposal for a debate on the questioning and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 13 August 2021. A draft decision of 50 Members of the National Assembly, registered at 10:46 p.m. I give the floor to one of the importers to present the proposal and the draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Shalamanov. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, the decisions that we have proposed with our colleagues, and here is the moment to express my gratitude for the support of the MPs from the Bulgarian Democratic Republic. There is such a people and are aimed at improving the process of management in the Bulgarian army's re-arming in accordance with the Constitution. Let us not forget that our debate ultimately comes down to the fact that there is an article. 1 which says that we are a parliamentary republic, and has art. 86, para. 2 which says that the decisions of the National Assembly are binding on all bodies, including the executive. The proposed solutions are two: The Council of Ministers shall, within 2 months of the date of this decision, submit an assessment to the National Assembly for the implementation of the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 with conclusions and recommendations for overcoming the identified problems. Second point: The Council of Ministers shall, within 2 months of the adoption of the decision on the above point, submit by decision of the National Assembly to an updated Program for the Development of Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2032 with an investment plan-programme for the first 5 years of abilities, projects, financing, management, including risk, industrial dimensions, including compensation measures, for spending significant public resources for external supplies to Bulgaria, as well as international cooperation. As a basis for these two decisions are precisely the weaknesses in the leadership of the re-arming process. Let us not forget that on 8 April 1999, a large majority of the new Military Doctrine of Bulgaria was voted in this House, which decisively restructured the armed forces, reduced their numbers from 110 thousand to 45 thousand, later on in 2007, the completely voluntary principle of completion was adopted, so we have a professional army, and remained the third important element in the restructuring of the army. Re-arming doesn't just mean modernizing a technique that's 50 years old or older. Re-arming means purchasing new capabilities which are interoperable in NATO and which can guarantee Bulgaria's participation in any operations, including under art. 5, participation in multinational forces, including the deployment of multinational forces on Bulgarian territory. Bulgaria in its geographical position needs enhanced defence capabilities that can hardly be achieved in the demographic and gross domestic product that Bulgaria has. Such are many examples in NATO and Bulgaria has the opportunity to take advantage. In order to benefit, this serious re-arming programme must be implemented. One of the decisions taken again by this Parliament in 2010 states that the total number must be no less than 37 thousand, which should be reached by 31 December 2014. This decision is not implemented and there must be mechanisms by which the decisions of the National Assembly are either implemented or adjusted accordingly with the necessary arguments. In addition, this White Paper provides an analysis of defence costs. Notice, Bulgaria in the difficult year 2000, after the collapse in Bulgaria in 1996, has separated 2.89 per cent of gross domestic product for defence. This was a commitment under Plan 2004 because then the National Assembly made a decision, the Council of Ministers made a Plan 2004 and it was adhered to, reported annually to the National Assembly and therefore the Plan was implemented at 100%, i.e. in 2002 Bulgaria was invited to join NATO, 2004 became a member and the army was restructuring. After years, in 2010 The first year of GERB management, the percentage of gross domestic defence product is 1.41, i.e. reduced almost twice. Despite the fact that after the decisions of Wales 2014, the Council of Ministers adopted by decree an increase in defence spending to reach 2% in 2024. This year, for example, the costs must be 1.64, as Minister Panayotov mentioned during the answer to our questioning, they will not be reached, that is, not only the decisions of the National Assembly are not implemented, but also the decrees of the Council of Ministers are not implemented in respect of one of the most important priorities of each state. From this document, as there was a call to deal with facts, on page 62 it is written: a long-term investment plan will be developed to cover the main platforms and systems of the armed forces. The programmes and projects included in the Plan will be prioritized and financially defined for the period until 2020 "When, in 2014, I was Minister of Defence, I found that such a plan was not developed, i.e. from 2010 until 2014, what the National Assembly decided was not implemented. Naturally, with respect to the decisions of the National Assembly, we have developed the National Program of Bulgaria in NATO and in the European Defence Council, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers, but for reasons unknown to me the next Council of Ministers cancelled it and sent to parliament the adoption of the Program for the Development of Defence Capacity by 2020. It was adopted by a decision on 25 November 2015. It once again says that the number of armed forces should be no less than 37 thousand. We all know she's less than 37,000. It says that I read only the facts, which are bold, that there should be a project for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of the mechanized brigades. Complete failure, the project crashed and we're back to zero. Then it's said to acquire a new type of fighter plane. We discussed it, the problem is solved as half a horse, let's see what happens to the other half; new three coordinate radar - nothing is done; automated command and management systems - practically nothing is done. I can continue for the Naval Forces. I need to modernize the frigate class E-71, nothing has been done. The acquisition of a multifunctional modular ship has a signed contract that is going very hard. In the Commission we will be interested, all the more so that the ships will be built in Bulgaria, so we can visit the yard to see when and what ships we will receive for those over a billion Bulgarian levs. This programme also says other things, for example, about the cost ratio, that in 2015 it was 73/21/6 in terms of personnel, current maintenance and investment. In 2020, it should be 60/20. It has not been achieved, we are very far from that, that is, there is a very serious need to analyse the implementation of this programme and take into account why it is not implemented. The bigger problem is that after two five-year programmes have not been implemented and are not controlled by the National Assembly, the National Assembly has adopted Programme 2032, which is for 12 years, for 188 projects worth more than 36 billion. BGN, which has no specifics and is not responsible for key issues such as priority capabilities and interoperability; participation in multinational forces, necessary funds and mechanisms for their provision; participation of the Bulgarian industry and offset policy; use of NATO and European Union agencies; risk management; accelerated removal and utilization of old and incompatible weapons from the time of the Warsaw Treaty; interruption of dependence on Russia, Belarus and other non-NATO countries; and most importantly, care for the use of the potential of people who will otherwise have to undergo changes in their personnel development.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u23	Your time, Mr. Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u24	Yeah. On these grounds, I believe that the adoption of these two decisions will allow, first, the Commission, which has already been formed and then in plenary, to put on new rails, under strict parliamentary control and with a commitment to Bulgaria's defence and NATO membership, the re-arming process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u25	Mr. Shalamanov, would you please read the draft decision as submitted?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u26	Yes, Madam President, this is what I started, but again: Project! DECISION in connection with the debates on the questions of the MPs Velizar Shalamanov and Kaloyan Yankov, MPs from the parliamentary group "Democratic Bulgaria" to the Minister of Defence on the Realization of the Program for the Development of the Defence Capacity of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2032 and an assessment of the implementation of the Program for the Development of Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers, within 2 months from the date of this decision, to submit for adoption by a decision of the National Assembly, to assess the implementation of the Defence Skills Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020, with conclusions and recommendations for overcoming the identified problems. 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers, within 2 months of the adoption of the decision on the upper point, to submit for adoption by decision of the National Assembly, of an updated Programme for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2032 with an Investment Plan programme for the first 5 years of abilities, projects, financing, management, including risk, industrial dimensions (including compensation measures for spending significant public resources for external to Bulgaria supplies) and international cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u27	Thank you. I will read you the time of each parliamentary group: We're coming! I declare open debate on the questioning. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u28	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to address the importers and congratulate them on the initiative. The subject is particularly important for the defence people, and I am convinced that they are carefully following the debates, waiting to learn and get clarity on the priorities of the 46th National Assembly for the development of the sector. I therefore call on the participants in the discussion to be responsible and serious in order to be able to meet high expectations. The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up BG! We will support the Project for a solution because updating the Programme will enable the Ministry to update some inaccurate or lost parts of the analysis, as well as to adjust the relevant parameters for development and building of defence capabilities, and to hold a discussion and increase public support for the necessary defence reforms. In the brief speaking time of our parliamentary group, I will have the opportunity to raise only a limited range of issues which, in my opinion, should be kept in the attention of the Ministry and society. The first of these issues is regarding the assessment of the security environment. The analysis in its main part correctly and truthfully reflects the state of international relations, including the conclusion that there is little likelihood of a global conventional, long-term military conflict. However, it seems to me that the analysis will not be complete enough if it does not note the growing likelihood of a regional conventional military conflict in the immediate vicinity of our borders. In addition, the potential threats to the security of the country in actions of other NATO members from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are not clearly and clearly identified. I believe that supplementing this part of the analysis will contribute not only to increasing the openness of the document to the general public, but also to an objective assessment of risks and threats will also contribute to adequate planning and building capabilities to neutralize these particular risks and threats. The short-term regional military conflicts for achieving military policy objectives in the 21st century have become common practice and Bulgaria should be prepared to respond to this type of threats. The recent Nagorno-Karah conflict has shown the characteristics and effects of modern combat operations. The use of new high-tech weapons has changed the use of military force. Overpowerment is given to those who possess high mobility of troops and forces, ability to launch sudden missile and air strikes, increased long-range combat of armed systems. The precise definition of the characteristics of the environment, of the new dynamics, the extended range of risks and threats give new and convincing arguments to justify the need to acquire high-tech but expensive capabilities of the Bulgarian armed forces. Here is the place to put the second significant question about the resource security of the Programme 2032. The document states that in order to achieve the full list of 188 minimum military capabilities, huge funds of over 36 billion are needed. BGN, which is impossible to secure from the state budget for the short period. In order to be realistically secure with regard to budget opportunities, the estimates under Programme 2032 are made only on a list of 38 priority, minimum necessary military capabilities, which would require about 9 billion. lv. Against the backdrop of the huge social inequalities, the acute crisis of health and education in Bulgaria, the economic difficulties resulting from the pandemic of COVID-19, many politicians are uncomfortable to pay attention to the public about the financial crisis in the army. Please extend the parliamentary group's time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u29	That's what we have in common. There is no such time, Mr. Georgiev, as this is a debate and the time is within an hour.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u30	I see. I'll try to be brief. Due to the systematic underfinancing, the armed forces are able to meet with a time limit and volume of their tasks placed in the Constitution. Given the status of the main models of combat and maintenance equipment, the low level of training of personnel due to the insufficient number of exercises and trainings carried out, as well as the incomplete states in battle formations, it can be concluded that in certain cases the performance of these tasks will prove even impossible. The decision to re-examine the Program in Parliament must be supported because it enables the unhappy situation in the armed forces to be explained and again presented to the attention of the general public. It is because of the systematic robbery of the defence budget from 2009 to today. Each year, the management of GERB, the defence budget, was deprived of amounts ranging from 600 to 800 million. BGN, which are redistributed to other sectors in the country, perhaps to supplement one's offshore accounts or nightstands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u31	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u32	And it was these funds that could allow the start of the process of modernisation 12 years ago, without tension, engaging to the maximum extent the enterprises of the Bulgarian military industry in order to achieve an optimal result with smooth modernisation and additional revenue in the budget. To conclude, I will only add that there is a long period of time to invest huge funds, the spending of which our society must have accepted as appropriate and approved. I believe that these costs are precisely those necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u33	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You've made the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u34	It depends on the work of politicians and the management of the Ministry to maintain the consent and to consistently fulfil the commitment to increase defence costs to 2% of gross domestic product. Thank you for your patience, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u36	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a question for the honourable Minister and it concerns the modernisation of the SW-25 aircraft, which takes place in Belarus. As we know, this will not lead to their compatibility with NATO forces and poses a serious problem to the Bulgarian Air Force. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] I am also tempted to ask you, Minister, as an experienced diplomat and colleague: what geopolitical signal does Bulgaria send when it entrusts the modernisation of part of its Air Force to the Lukashenko regime? Given that there are 30 countries in NATO and many of them have the opportunity to modernise them, not to mention that one country is a partner of Bulgaria, and Ukraine is also able to do so. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u37	Ask for MiG-29.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u38	Mr. Tafrov, you don't usually have the right to question. If the Minister wishes to answer you, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u39	Dear Mr. Tafrov, I will be very brief. Repair with integrated maintenance and modernisation of SW-25 aircraft was carried out in Belarus and ordered by the previous government, not by the caretaker government. I want to know that. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they As for the integrated support of the MiG-29 fighters, we have conversations with all possible performers of such integrated support, including Ukraine. So far we have no final answer to who is hired, who will provide guarantees, who can carry out this support. I've had meetings with the Ukrainian side, of course, in the presence of the representative of the Defense Headquarters, we've made inquiries, we're waiting for an answer. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u40	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u41	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to say that we from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria are welcoming today's parliamentary debate and we are pleased by the fact that, albeit within an hour, the Bulgarian Parliament will debate on issues concerning the sector, which, unfortunately, in recent months has been permanently neglected and absent from the agenda of the public, as a result of the winding crises of any nature. That is why I also appeal for a serious and responsible behaviour from this tribune, and let us at least put aside our party biases, populism, thin bills and try to be nationally responsible and rational in our decisions. Yes, defence is indeed such a topic and is not suitable for experiments and improvisations. We have seen such improvisations in the past 12 years, when, unfortunately, Borisov's government has given the Bulgarian defence to the police and now we are picking the fruits of this illustrative policy. The little time at our disposal does not mean that we should go into depth on the two main issues that this draft decision is actually asking, namely an assessment of the implementation of the 2020 Development Programme and finding arguments for making changes to the 2032 Programme in view of the undeniable and identified weaknesses. This lack of time suggests that we should hear today the political tract of these issues, and the expert I hope to find in the Defence Committee. Expert evaluation of the 2020 Development Programme, I said, there is no time to debate, but the political assessment is average 3, not to say weak 2. This assessment gave it its own previous management, taking into account as the greatest success for its 10-year governance, notice the launch of investment projects in defence. Notice, my colleagues, the launch, not the finalization! And we really don't have time to talk now about how far you've come with these projects, but we can say that we have planes on paper, virtually melted projects for a warship and a war machine that doesn't exist in the infantry at all. The money is spent accordingly. The other great praise, I quote: The negative trend for increasing the number of non-employed servicemen's posts has been stopped. " When you are in power for 10 years, boasting that you have stopped a negative trend is an achievement and not to mention that this does not correspond to the truth. However, there is one truth, and it must be spoken out loud. The destruction and negative tendencies, the timelessness in the Bulgarian Army began with Borisov's first cabinet, when after a brutal act of Minister Djankov, about whom I will quote what a politician said: The irresponsibility reached its peak at the master of the post pizza Simeon Djankov, who imposed his idea of 40% reduction of the Army's budget, and at a time when revolutions in the Middle East began and a wave of migratory waves rose. Minister of Defence in the cabinet Borisov Krasimir Karakachanov. Tell me now, after such a revelation, is there a politician from GERB who has eyes to talk about the issues we are discussing today? If there is one, did he sleep until now and now he's waking up to these problems? No programs, reports, development plans can wash away the shame of this disgraceful act, which started the poverty and humiliation for the Bulgarian serviceman. A few sentences for the 2032 program. Ambitious goals, most of which, unfortunately, are unrealistic or difficult to meet due to the intended resources, approach, way of achieving. This programme has no uniform design and purpose to achieve the necessary capabilities. It is a collection of different interests, approaches and measures, in most cases contrary to each other. In most of the issues addressed there are many theoretical plays and intentions that are more similar to wishes that reduce its value and make it difficult to apply. For example, the change of Mission "Defense" and relying on the protection of the country's territorial integrity to take place only through collective defence, based on art. 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. This is contrary to art. 9 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 3 of the same contract. This idea, except that it does not guarantee the performance of the main function of the armed forces, is also dangerous and will lead to deterioration of the state of military formations. The proposed number of 43,000 people is not financially justified and is not supported by measures, military marketing and structures for attracting and watching, which is why its implementation is set to fail, and will lead to an increase in the neocomplect by servicemen. The question arises: on what analysis is this number based and how is it consistent with the implementation of the missions and tasks of the armed forces? The same applies to the unrealistic social policy laid down in the 2032 Programme. A very disturbing finding has been made, according to which, I quote: The reduced estimated gross domestic product values for the period up to 2032 according to data from the Ministry of Finance from the end of 2020 cannot provide the minimum necessary defence costs to ensure the level of ambition, including the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria to NATO and the European Union. This finding negates all the objectives and priorities set in this programme and it is in practice a recognition that they will not be realised. Allow me for the finale to quote you on how this document ends. As of 2032, the armed forces will have the main priority defence capabilities and will be able to meet much of the minimum military requirements for carrying out the tasks of the three missions. Is this the ambition of the political and military leadership of the previous government? In short, colleagues: there is no need for two-month analyses, the program is unrealistic, weak and needs serious adjustments, and why not complete rewrite? The question here is by whom? And we come to the second point of the proposed draft decision. Gentlemen, do you seriously consider and propose that the National Assembly assign such an undeniablely ambitious task to a cabinet with a sufficient life of no more than 3 weeks, maximum 3 weeks? And if we get into the hypothesis of a regular office in three weeks, I hope it works, but what does that mean? To ask the new ministers, whoever they are, for less than a month to prepare a new development programme in practice, because we are aware of the imperfections of the current programme for the next 11 years, with a detailed investment plan of 5 years. I'm sorry, but I don't think a quality product can be born in such a short time. That is, we pre-set unfulfilled goals, unclear with what argument. I'm saying it's unclear because you never argued it. I doubt you'll have such a solid argument. It's just two months is an infinitely small amount of time. And to tell you frankly, we MPs in the 46th National Assembly, who are about to show that we do not have the will and character to form a working government in the name of the salvation of Bulgaria, hardly have the moral right to put such tasks before any subsequent government. It will be chosen by other MPs with other priorities, God forbid, with another horizon. And if the next department becomes official, things become even more illogical. It is not the office's job to write strategic programmes and investment plans, but even less in such sensitive, demanding consensus solutions sector. What did Borisov's resignation cabinet do for comparison? On 7 May he adopted a Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces until 2026. He was promulgated and entered into force in the Official Journal on 11 May 2021 and on 12 May the Office of the Service took office. In practice, this caretaker government received as dowry this plan and wants-does not want to start working on its implementation. Well, is that supposed to be your approach? Mr. Shalamanov, I have come to know the program for strategic defence planning of your political power. There you are talking about a strategic review of the operational capabilities of the armed forces with the development and implementation of actions of a comprehensive defence review at the very beginning of the new management mandate. We have always been behind a similar approach. Let us give the next government the opportunity to conduct such a strategic review, but genuine, realistic, and it will be the basis for a future working programme for the development of the armed forces. We have spoken with you on this subject and I accept and respect your argument for a deficit in time, but let us not forget that bad work is twice the job. That is why we of the BSP by confirming our commitments to the process of modernisation and re-arming of the Bulgarian Army and the armed forces, but taking into account the real capabilities of the state and without doing harm to other vital sectors, such as health, education, income and social policy, propose a split vote on the two points of the proposed draft decision and we will support it in its first part to award the Council of Ministers an assessment of the implementation of the Development Programme 2020 with elections and recommendations for overcoming the problems, but we will not support it in its second point on the basis of the arguments I have put before you. In conclusion, Mr. Minister, just one sentence and allow it to be on the topic of the day. It's not a problem, of course...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u42	Your time is up, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u43	We had about 30 seconds of the first procedure. It's okay that you continue this procedure. The problem is that this is happening behind the back of the National Assembly and it is a problem that is happening in the conditions of a severe economic, health and political crisis in the Bulgarian society, which is currently setting other priorities for development. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I cannot be, and our parliamentary group is not so black-sighted Firstly, we believe that it was indeed not a matter for us to welcome this, but in the context of the caretaker government with a limited mandate and extremely different political messages and actions by political parties in this fragmented Parliament on fundamental issues on the agenda of society, seeking a solution on various issues, which is accompanied by opposition and a very shifting position from the stated at the outset. I'm not going to give specific examples, but you know what I mean, don't you? There are some disagreements on the grounds that are explained in the exhibition of the two MPs, the reference to the Programme "Bulgaria in NATO" and the European Union. Well, this program was done literally in a week with a limited team of Mr. Bliznashki's caretaker government, where Mr. Shalamanov was a minister, was presented and given now, right... It makes sense that it has been replaced with Programme 2020 since next year. Regarding the implementation of Programme 2020 there is one section in the Report of 2 April this year, Mr Minister, on the state of defence which the National Assembly should consider. It is quite briefly noted there, but of course there are many more things, in the sense of the annual reports on defence and the armed forces that we are looking at in the National Assembly, and we can really conclude in what state defence is, which reflects precisely on the implementation of the 2020 Programme. Of course, some results are not to be ignored. I don't have time to talk about it right now. In the motives of this generalization of the overall state of defence, the reference only to the bad practices that exist, the adoption of financially uncertain programs... what signal is given to the officers, sergeants and soldiers in the Bulgarian Army anyway?! I've been working on planning for the last 20 years. It is not a problem the plan we have many plans that have been adopted and the issue is implementation. We don't have a single implementation plan, and now we have a Programme 2032. However, let me remind you that it is the result of a strategic review carried out on the functioning of the national security protection system. However, for the first time the issue of an integrated approach to national security was raised and the first part was the strategic defence review, and the other extremely important part was the participation of all departments and state structures and their contribution to defence: a year and a half of the work and an extremely large number of teams from the Military Academy at strategic level, the Ministry of Defence at operational level, the command at tactical level, the attracting of a huge team of specialists. However, this is also a work in the Programme, which is a descriptive part of what are the objectives, what are the intentions and what is expected to be achieved during a long period, should not be denied everything. It is true that there are weaknesses, discrepancies, shown by the importers and Mr. Zafirov, who also spoke on these issues, but still the purpose of this strategic review I think was achieved in full. Programme 2032 says two plans must be developed: the first is by 2026 and the second by 2032 is for the organizational construction of the armed forces. What is the meaning of the "strengthening building'? It means the organizational structure of the army, means the functional structure of a little military terminology. Let's just say that earlier there were Force for immediate action, Force for detention and so on, but how does the army act in the event of a military-political crisis? These things are well explained in the Programme, and the issue is the implementation and the main quantities of fighting equipment. It is necessary to develop an investment plan-programme and this is set out in Programme 2032. Now we think that we should first wait for the development of this investment plan programme. You mentioned last time that the Defence Council had a discussion, but there is no consensus yet, and perhaps the lack of a single opinion is still a consultative body, and after all, the Minister of Defence is taking action. Perhaps it will not be developed and will remain for further, because the investment plan-programme will actually reflect inside all the questions Mr. Shalamanov talked about on planes, ground troops projects, Navy projects, tricoordinate radars. Well, they're so tricoordinated radars, still MiG-29 is also a problem and it can't be thrown away, and in our parliamentary group's declaration before 6 May, we made it clear: new modernization projects, but using them for the rest of their life cycle. Now what do we think is necessary? There is no way to update something that has not yet been presented. An update of what is the Programme's descriptive part? We don't have an investment plan. The deadline is short. Let's wait, see what this investment plan is, what will be done and whether the main types of armaments, fighting techniques and abilities will lie in place, because the main thing here is the achievement of abilities. One more question -- 188 defined, identified, defined capabilities for 36 billion. lv. Yeah, they're identified at best. They've been identified to show if it's possible, but of them there are key abilities without which they can't. These key capabilities are 38. This is something that needs to be implemented by this programme, so financial resources need to be provided. How can they be provided and whether it is realistic? It's hard to tell. It is said: 2% of the gross product under the National State Plan to achieve these 2%. This is Bulgaria's obligation and is the result of the Wales Summit. We believe and stated in our declaration that these 2% of gross domestic product must be absorbed. Otherwise, the Programme as a whole reflects all of the main objectives of the Programme sound good, but the main ones are really the programmes. The main efforts must be focused on the projects. If with this 2% and the resource it has for capital expenditure, then that's about 8 billion. lv. for these 38 abilities, isn't it, Minister?! Well, that's ten years from now. Are there that many 8 billion if we have to talk, as long as they're really well planned and there are? This is an annual budget for health care without otherwise opposed. In this regard, I am surprised here by a bill that has been received for the imposition of a moratorium. I very strongly believe that this is not the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) but that this is an act within the meaning of the law of the legislative initiative of each MP. The development of the country's defence capabilities and defence should not be countered by the reasons for solving the issues of education, health and all other issues, but by the defence and capabilities in this situation we see what is happening in Afghanistan on a residual basis. So, in conclusion, the plan is a plan. It is difficult to find a plan implemented so far, except for Plan 2004 which was a complex plan. There was an agreement of all political forces, but because it had to enter NATO, unfortunately, from this plan everything was fulfilled in terms of personnel, armaments, equipment, accepted us, but thousands and thousands of people went out insulted, because in this particular part, what was needed could not be found for thousands of servicemen over 12,000. A plan is a plan, but in the end, planning is everything. In our view, the most sensible approach is to wait, and just now the development of the Investment Plan is beginning, and from 1 September there are some changes in the organizational structure of the armed forces, which inevitably goes to the functional structure... extremely important both in terms of national capabilities and national planning and in terms of collective planning, because we have a contribution there. Let's see how these things go and then with a next government, with greater agreement of the political forces, there may be a certain revision, an update, a new programme if necessary. For now, I think we should leave the armed forces, the senior staff, the structures of this great work that has been put into place and is in line with the development of the geopolitical situation, and take the first steps to see how it goes. Every year thereafter, if necessary, changes can be made and the plan and development of defence capabilities can be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u46	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Shalamanov seemed to want the floor. You're giving up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u47	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, the draft decision and the debates that we have proposed have one main goal: to focus the meeting's attention on the need to take important and urgent measures for Bulgaria's defence to have ambitious goals, to have projects to implement, and ultimately in a situation where we have a caretaker government, which is not clear how much it will continue to govern Bulgaria, we cannot give up ambitious goals. In the situation of political uncertainty, the most secure road map for the caretaker government is to receive the Parliament's trust in the strategically important issues for the Bulgarian state. In the way in which the Assembly discusses an updated budget submitted by the caretaker government, we also believe that it is appropriate to discuss the non-restraints in the field of defence. And I'm going to give an example. In the program for development of defence capabilities is separated exactly half a side of a very important part of the cooperation Bulgaria has within the framework of PESCO, of the permanent structured cooperation within the framework of the common defence policy of the European Union. Looking at the projects Bulgaria is implementing together with other European countries within PESCO, we will see, I would say, the very unambitious objectives that our country has set for itself. This can't go on like this. Then, when the European Union also allocates billions through the Defence Fund within the European Defence Agency, we cannot set low targets in a situation of increasing threat, security risks to the country. That is why we have initiated the debates, which is why we have put the draft decision before Parliament. Yes, there may be a correction of the time limits we propose in the decision, but surely the question cannot be postponed for two or three months. Are we sure that the next parliament will immediately elect a government? I therefore ask for the support of the solution so proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u48	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u49	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On this proposal, I will try to highlight several key points. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly has entered into force. The annulment of a decision can only be found in the National Assembly, of course. In order for there to be a new solution, the procedure of invalidity of the previous decision must be followed. Therefore, what importers want is very difficult and will justify why. Because this cannot be the decision of only one Ministry of Defence, especially in the case of a public office, to enable a minister of service and a caretaker government to make a very important decision. To have such a solution, it must be part of the country's financial instruments, that is, even part of the country's budget, to be agreed with all other institutions, of course. Processively, this is absurd the way it's proposed. We in the parliamentary group of.. Movement for Rights and Freedoms.. are strongly opposed to the proposed two decisions and our motives are. The country is going, honourable who, to a new severe type of crisis, our country has not even set aside funds for new anti-corporation medicines that are more important than I think the subject at issue. Even Prime Minister Yanev confirmed this thesis, he had never heard that there were new medicines for which Bulgaria did not participate in the procedure for their purchase. For us, the survival of the nation is more important than anything else. So at this historic moment, if we have to choose, we will choose, of course, the health of the nation and the purchase of medicines. Thirdly, I understand the military's bias to this subject and I do not say it with a bad intent. The minister is military, too, but the situation is such that less than 15% of the population has been vaccinated, and the remaining 85% are at risk, and at this time costs unrelated to the rescue of a horse must be resolved very carefully. Defence costs in general are close to 2%. Even with investment costs incurred in re-arming, they exceed 2% of gross domestic product. Education costs are much less, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, and children must study under conditions of pandemic and this is what we heard from the Minister of Education a day or two ago. This requires, of course, funds to secure their online learning and everything else, funds are required to increase all social costs. Mr. Minister, colleagues, no one denies that these are not necessary costs. This means that there must be certain priorities, redirecting the financial resources of the state. In this situation, I do not find these costs more prioritized than I do. That is why we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will not vote for them at this stage and will vote against the proposed solution. And as in my previous speech, I think and I think it is appropriate that this topic be examined thoroughly by a regular cabinet with a clear parliamentary majority, of course, and by the Defence Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, since the debate has returned to 2009, I would like to say a few words of background. Unlike many people, experts on the subject who apparently sometimes live in the bubble of the topic and forget what happened in 2009, some people remember. Well, there was a huge financial crisis, Greece went bankrupt almost, our neighbouring Greece went bankrupt, Portugal, Spain were also on the brink of bankruptcy, there was the biggest economic crisis since 1930. This was the reason for the budget cuts. Unfortunately, we want, we don't want, it wasn't just about the defence budget, it was on the entire budget of the state because the state just didn't have money. But that's on the subject of old expenses. It is mentioned here Bulgaria's NATO and EU Development Programme, prepared by the caretaker government in 2014, and why it has disappeared, so to speak, from legal peace. I'd like to explain what this is all about. There was a programme by the caretaker government prepared in 2014, between October and November for several weeks, which was adopted as a Strategy and not as an armed forces management programme. A strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers for the simple reason, one of the main reasons why it was adopted so, is the lack of financial justification. And every single document, or as we all know, who makes plans without the pubman, in fact, without the Ministry of Finance, remains only with the plans. A good strategy, a good plan must have the appropriate financial justification and means, otherwise it is unrealistic. Why was it rejected and cancelled in October 2015? Well, dear Mr. Shalamanov, you may ask the chairman of your parliamentary group he was a minister at the time, was rejected because as a strategy was cancelled with the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the Program prepared by the then Ministry of Defence, because this is the correct programme with financial justification submitted to the National Assembly under art. 16 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act and adopted by the National Assembly. On this 2020 programme, we now want its assessment, which you have submitted on the first point. I do not see why we should wait two months, as an analysis and evaluation of its implementation has been prepared in preparation of Programme 2023 and has been adopted, as far as I know, by the Defence Council and the Minister of Defence. Such a document has, therefore, the Minister of Defence to provide the Defence Committee's analysis in the appropriate order, respecting the rules of the Classified Information Protection Act, so that even MPs who were not in the 44th National Assembly could be properly acquainted with these documents. I think it's reasonable for that, by the way, there shouldn't be two months, and it could happen next week. Of course, the Minister is in his capacity as any member of the Council of Ministers to revise this strategy. If there is such an idea, if the idea is to give a new assessment of this analysis, although the people who prepared the analysis, they are from the military and civilian expertise of the DOD, they are the same. If we want to have a new political analysis at the end, okay, but this political analysis can do it here and it can happen much faster, even within this Parliament. So point one in this respect is a little pointless. We're going to point two. You have said here very difficult words about the Development Plan, and about the Programme......................................................................................... Just to mention that it has been cooked for two years, by the way, here I thank Colonel Alexandrov for the televised speech, for two years by over 500 civilians and military, in 25 working groups and they have come up with all these texts. Obviously, gentlemen of the BSP, if you consider this unprofessional, perhaps the people in the defense are as capable as these generals, I do not think so. I believe that people are great professionals and do not deserve this assessment of their work that you are giving. So they brought out 288 abilities that should develop over the next 12 years. They are derived from our commitments to collective defence from NATO's plans for territorial protection of Bulgaria, as well as from the Bulgarian contribution to our protection and assessment and analysis of threats to Bulgaria. These 288 abilities are estimated at 36 billion. lv. Well, few governments can afford that kind of expense for the next 12 years. The assessment of the past government of GERB is that still what can be implemented are 38 projects of them, which are considered priority not by the political leadership, by the military leadership. By the way, these 38 projects have their financial programme and their financial framework. It is approved by the Ministry of Finance of 7.5 billion for the next 10 years. These projects actually have financial insurance because they are planned by the Ministry of Finance. Here I will open a clamp on the previous topic. Here's the money for the new eight planes in Schrödinger's cat, whether they're there or not. Yes, in budget 2021 they are not, but in the financial forecast for the coming years they are there and they are laid down and approved by the Ministry of Finance, and that is what is important. Because if the Treasury Department doesn't give you money, it doesn't matter what you plan. [[Reply: Will this money be enough?]] Here I hear a line: will this money be enough? Based on the analysis of the military and civilian leadership of the Ministry of Defence and the analysis prepared by the experts at the Ministry of Finance, these 38 projects should be sufficient. That's the analysis, but here we need to clarify now a few details that are problematic in point. 2 of this decision. If we catch the part that's about updating the 2032 program. Okay, we're going to go update it or rather the same people who cooked it for two years will be obliged to prepare a new update and give different conclusions from those who gave it a few months ago. I doubt there will be a profound change in military expertise and military assessments about the necessary projects and the necessary development of the Bulgarian Army and our armed forces that have occurred in the last two months. If there are any, let's see. I doubt that this thing will lead to something different. By the way, here to say that since we adopted the 2032 Programme, which has been adopted by the National Assembly, a Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces has been drawn up until 2026, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers, which stems from the legal changes that have been made in the implementation of this programme, and have even concluded with the President's decrees on the appointment of new commanders of the two new commands that have been created, I think, at the end of last month. So the structural army is already following this plan and carrying it out. As for the key which is buried in the second part of the proposal, namely the adoption of the investment plan-programme and its submission to the National Assembly. Let us remember that there is still legislation in the Republic of Bulgaria, and I do not know, Madam President, if we deliberately derogate some members of special laws, how exactly things will happen because of art. 28 of the ZOVS has defined the powers of the Council of Ministers and art. 16 has determined the powers of the National Assembly. Investment programmes are under the authority of the Council of Ministers. The projects over 100 million are already the powers of the National Assembly and they should already be seen here, as it has become clear and correct, as an investment cost for airplanes and other projects should, as has been seen in 2018, as has been adopted and the Project for new infantry fighting machines and the Project for new ships, everything that is over 100 million, should be viewed by the National Assembly. But those under 100 million between 50 and 100 are the competence of the Council of Ministers and between zero and 50 million are the competence of the Minister of Defence. Let's not mix them up. The programme itself and the investment projects are prepared and adopted, at least as far as I know, were even approved by the Minister of Defence at the end of his term of office, and quite rightly not submitted to the Council of Ministers. They have not been imported because, firstly, the government's view is that we do not need projects defining the development of the army and our armed forces over the next 12 years to be imported on the last day of a government's mandate. By the same logic, we do not believe that this should be done by a caretaker government. The caretaker government, by the way, so far quite rightly leaves this activity to the next regular government, because to determine these 38 or at all, projects with this funding, whether it will be seven and a half billion, such as the financial framework laid down by GERB, will be 10 billion, or will be five billion, it is the work of a next regular government, which has a political mandate by parliament to carry out this reform and to import these documents. So I am strongly opposed to assigning, first, non-essential, and second, incorrect tasks to the caretaker government to adopt a document for which it needs a political mandate. This mandate should belong to a regular government that has a horizon to govern, because whatever it is, whether it will be a next caretaker government, whether it will be in the same composition, but I sincerely hope that there will be a regular government in November. I mean, whatever it is, the caretaker government has some limited mandate, and it can't go on without an end. There must therefore be a regular government to do this job, which has made commitments to citizens, which has its own policy regarding the finances of the state. Whether it will keep these costs, I repeat, whether it will give new... Here, for example, there was talk of how the defence budget was reduced and so on. I am shocked, for example, by the speech of the minister of the service yesterday, Asen Vassilev to reduce 10% of the staff costs of the ministries. That, in principle, I do not know, but I would also like to hear the position of the Minister of Defence on this subject, because this de facto means a 10% reduction in the wages of the servicemen, means a de facto suspension of the process of appointment of new servicemen. This is a problem and I hope, Mr President of the Commission, that we will put it on its agenda as soon as next week, because such a reduction in the budget within the armed forces will be disastrous. That's a problem. This is the problem that we can really deal with whether through the update of this budget or with some separate draft solution. Therefore, such things should not be done by a caretaker government. Do you understand? You just don't have to! You must have a political mandate and responsibility to your constituents when you say that you will reduce or increase costs when you are doing long-term projects for the next ten years or 2026. By the way, as it has gone, the next government will have a term of up to 2026 and will have to fulfil its mandate. It is not logical and it is not right for us to see the National Assembly leaking, because, Madam President, we, and you, the two largest parties are in opposition and this Parliament, above and above, is no longer working, it is not right in our last days to oblige the caretaker government to tie the hands of the next regular government. At the end of the day, I don't understand where this haste to oblige the caretaker government to do something that it thinks is wrong? If you thought it was right, it would have been over by now? Therefore, we will not support either the first or the second point. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u52	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? I won't. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Statements? Here you go, Mr. Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u53	Madam President, honourable Members! I fully understand Mr. Gajev's position. Since, when the Bulgarian army in the last 10 years has been led by a government of GERB and has remained last in NATO in terms of acquiring new capacities of participation in multinational forces, the participation of Bulgarian servicemen in NATO structures, of course, one such report, one such analysis, one such assessment would not be very positive for the political party's governance. But I call on everyone: defence is something that the Bulgarian Parliament must put in front of parentheses! I am confident that the Defence Committee will work on the basis of consensus, because we must move forward and not be influenced by the shifts in the political situation. By the way, Romania's recipe for success is precisely in this is what many governments are changing in Romania, many parliaments, but Romania is decisively ahead of Bulgaria for re-arming, acquisition of new equipment, deployment of multinational forces, in terms of the degree of protection of air and maritime sovereignty, in terms of the degree of participation in NATO operations, in terms of the degree of participation in NATO structures, including NATO Deputy Secretary-General. So this comparison would be important. Something very specific. Programme 2020 should be assessed because, apart from the fact that the main projects in this programme have not been implemented, we notice that other projects that are not in this programme, such as the project for the purchase of armored machines for the forces of special operations, which are supposedly produced in Bulgaria, there are reasonable assumptions that they are not actually produced in Bulgaria, money has been spent, and it has been in the time of the cruelest horse crisis that some colleagues have talked about. Similarly, the modernisation of a T-72 tank with the participation of the company Elbit Systems is not at all in program 2020, but it takes a resource that could have gone for the repair of my-17 helicopters and the equipment to put out fires and not be in the situation we are currently in. I can continue to give many, many, many such examples. This is because of the reduced parliamentary control, because Parliament was depreciated and the Council of Ministers could do whatever it wanted and when it wanted and because the framework of the Programme was actually extremely stretchy. That's what we need to get over. With regard to time limits and the replacement of various documents. Plan 2010 was adopted in 1998, which was seen as the panacea for the reform of the Bulgarian army. A year later it was replaced by Plan 2004 because, meanwhile, our allies said: Bulgaria and NATO are some missed years. What you're doing doesn't lead you where you want to go. Plan 2004 was developed in six months, including the implementation of the first strategic defence review in Bulgaria. This I would like to serve as an example and as a reason that it is essential that we support the first point so that, first, the Commission and then the entire National Assembly really understand how its decision of 25 November 2015 is implemented, understand what the problems are, so that they can be avoided in the update of the 2032 Programme. Why is it necessary to review and update Programme 2032? It has already been said: there are huge opportunities to use the mechanisms of the European Defence Fund; there are huge opportunities to use the mechanisms of multinational projects of multinational forces; there are huge requirements for this programme to be a programme of the Council of Ministers with the participation of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance and other ministries to ensure that any invested lev in defence will lead to an increase in gross domestic product, will lead to an increase in the technological level not only in the defence industry, but through offset programmes to increase the technological level of all other industries. So Programme 2032 is an amazing opportunity to transform the army, the defence industry, the high-tech industry of Bulgaria. We cannot miss this opportunity only because of the quick discussion.. without the participation of the Minister of Defence, without the participation of the Chief of Defense, without a real debate, which even today we have, is adopted a program that should oblige the Bulgarian Parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u54	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u55	...12 years of doing what he's been doing for the last 12 years, and having results that will be less satisfying than what we've achieved so far. I suggest, if possible, a second point...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u56	Your time, Mr. Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u57	...to change the period of six months, which will avoid the difficulties that colleagues see that within four months it is impossible to meet. Thank you. That two plus is going to be six months.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u58	Instead of two months, six months.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u59	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u60	It's only a second point. Thank you. Yes, come in, Mr. Gadget, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shalamanov, without being a bother, surely you have better impressions of the participation of Bulgarian servicemen and civil servants in NATO structures. However, until recently you were in one on a proposal from the GERB government and with the signature of Minister Karakachanov. As for the Project, the things you said, there are exactly nine projects under Programme 2020. What does that mean? No other project is done except by these nine, because by this logic you should not be repairing T-72.... whether it is good, whether it is bad, there is a Ministry that should say no other techniques should be purchased except these nine. By the same logic as yours, in which you set an example for MI-17, and it should not be repaired because it is not in the Program either. Let us not confuse the competences that are given even in the Constitution and the division of powers between a presidential institution, between the Council of Ministers on Sector Management, the Defence and the National Assembly. This one first. Secondly, each minister has his own authority to determine which technique, what should be repaired, what should be purchased, but he does not do it alone. There is neither this minister nor the previous minister nor any minister who has decided to go and say: let us buy a technique. Everything is done on the basis of military expertise, based on requests from the armed forces and is a long planning process, including in various types of advice, where they are viewed with civilian administration and with military specialists. You know this very well, since you were still the Minister of Defense. So as for the two terms, if it's going to be six months, whether one year by the first point, we can look at it next week because there is such an analysis. If it's provided, we can watch it next week. So the first point is pointless. Point two. I continue to hold that this should be the work of a regular government with a mandate. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u62	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here's another line for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u63	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Minister! Mr. Shalamanov, we fully share what you said in the first paragraph, and we from the parliamentary group will vote in favour. Why? Because the approach of our parliamentary group and the political party at all is not political when it comes to solving this issue and we will therefore support it. Again, just two words for Program 2032. Let us allow it to start as planned, to see how things are going, because I will repeat again: for the first time an integrated approach to the entire system of national security and a separate strategic review has been applied with so much effort and good results in many respects, such as a major pillar of national security. This strategic review, the result of which is Programme 2032, should be given a chance, not so suddenly a new program, new plans. Let's see what happens, let's see the investment plan! We also fully share what you said about the role of defence and military industry in terms of, I would say, of public reproduction in the country of all issues, because sometimes they say, especially economists, that public production has only economic dimensions. It's not like that. The army, the armaments, the equipment, the military industry are part of this particular public reproduction in the country. Therefore, we need to see what is being done, to enable the senior staff, who were now given the new amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, many rights. They already have more rights than they had before the General Staff of the Bulgarian Army. If they have such rights and are also empowered to take responsibility for the people in the defence, and not only give this to us, if you do not give it to us, we cannot fulfil the tasks that political leadership has placed on us. Therefore, we need a shared responsibility, as with regard to the political...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u64	Your time, Mr. Alexandrov, is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u65	...management as well as with regard to the people who are responsible for the development of these abilities. And again, I'm sorry, that's the approach...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u66	You don't have time, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u67	...of the political party "There is such a people" and of our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u68	Thank you. Third line? I can't see. Lord Shalamanov, come and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! As I mentioned, it is very important for me that defence issues be managed through a high level of agreement in Parliament. I see a high level of agreement on the first point so that we get a good report and analysis, as required by the Constitution and in relation to the need to pass at least one year from the adoption of...................................................................................... I withdraw a second point to be examined at the beginning of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u70	You cannot withdraw like this, Mr. Shalamanov, because the draft decision has been tabled and it has been tabled by many parliamentary groups, so it will be voted separately. Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I declare the debates closed and we move on to the vote. There was a proposal from Mr. Zafirov for a separate vote on the item. 1 et c. 2. Please vote on the proposal so made. Vote 149 MPs: 105, against 36, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on this. 1 of the Decision. Vote 158 MPs: 110 against 37, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on this. 2. Mr. Shalamanov, do you withdraw your offer for six months, or should I put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u71	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u72	Withdraw him, all right. Then I'm voting on it. 2 as imported. They voted 161 MPs: 26, against 61, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I put the whole decision to the vote with the single point adopted. Vote 161 MPs: 115, against 40, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. With this, this point is exhausted. We're moving on to PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 13 August to 19 August 2021 Written answers from: - Minister of Staff Andrey Zhivkov on a question from Martin Dimitrov, Stella Nikolova and Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister of Staff Andrey Kuzmanov on a question from Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Staff Asen Vassilev on a question from Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of the Service Assen Lichev on a question from Maya Manolova and Galina Tvalica and from Hristo Terziyski; - Deputy Prime Minister Atanas Pekanov on a question from Maria Kapon; - the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Service Boyko Rashkov on a question from Atanas Slavov and a question from Hristo Terziyski; - Minister of Service Velislav Minekov on a question from Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Staff Violeta Komitova to two questions from Armand Babikan, to a question from Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov and to a question from Philip Popov; - Minister of the Service Georgi Panayotov to a question from Vladimir Marinov, to two questions from Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of the Service Georgi Todorov to a question from Petar Chobanov, to a question from Stella Nikolova and from Maria Kapon; - Minister of Staff Kiril Petkov on a question from Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister of the Interior Nikolay Denkov to two questions from Elisaveta Belobradova, to a question from Petya Tsankova; - Deputy Minister Svetlan Stoev on a question from Blagovest Kirilov, from Nikolai Hadjigenov, from Nikolay Hadjigenov and Arman Babikian and from Hristo Terziyski; - Minister of Staff Stella Baltova on a question from Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister of Service Hristo Bosukov on seven questions from Zornitsa Stratieva; - Staff Minister Yanaki Stoilov on a question from Stella Nikolova. We begin with the first Deputy Minister for Economic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Galab Donev on a question from Anna Alexandrova on the new design of the measure 60/40. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, at the end of June you announced the new design of the measure 60/40, which was created during the government of the Political Party GERB and Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. I dare say that in the version in which it was implemented by previous governance, it achieved the objectives that were set and helped to preserve hundreds of thousands of jobs in the country during the pandemic. However, the cabinet of the service and you, as the minister of charge, decided that the conditions of this measure should be changed by claiming that more businesses would benefit from it in this way. According to this, you bet that at a 30% drop in turnover, the state will help with 50% of the insurance income the persons involved and falling into economic activities. In the event of a 40% decrease in turnover, aid from the State was maintained at 60/40 and employers had to receive 60% aid for their employed workers and employees. I have my concerns that such a design of the measure deprives a large part of the business of the opportunity to take advantage of it and creates conditions for concealing real incomes in order to prove such a decline especially in a period that, by presumption, brings higher seasonal income in many sectors of the economy. In this regard, my questions to you are: what is the number of supported companies in the new design of the measure 60/40? In view of the number of companies supported by it, do you think that the changes introduced by you were effective and appropriate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, in April and May this year the anti-epidemic measures, which indirectly had an adverse impact on the whole economy of the country and directly on a number of sectors and economic activities, including hotels and restaurants, activities in the field of culture and sport, education, trade, transport and others, have been terminated. This, in turn, had a positive impact on the economic activity of companies and businesses in the country, according to the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, gross domestic product is expected to grow by 2.7% in 2021 and the growth in employment per year to be 0.5%. In the context of improving the economic activity of companies and the prospects for growth of the economy, as well as the continuing trend for reducing registered unemployment, the government decided to continue support for maintaining employment by improving the design of the measure in order to direct financial resources towards the most affected by the crisis enterprises. By Decree No 213 of 1 July 2021, the Council of Ministers confirmed a new design of the measure and for companies with a decline in sales revenues between 30% and 40% the support amounted to 50% of the insurance income and for those with a decline in revenues above 40% the support remained 60%. The measure was regulated by the end of July and the state budget provided the necessary 120 million. lv. for payments for the months of June and July 2021. The employment of around 80 000 workers and employees may be maintained by these funds and employers may submit applications for support under the measure by 31 August of this year. The changes made to the measure 60/40 did not significantly affect access to support. According to preliminary data from the Employment Agency, 35% of companies applying for June for more than 50 employees have a decline in revenues from 30% to 40%; 34% of companies have a drop between 40% and 50% and 31% above 50%. Thus, the reduced subsidy of 50% of the insurance income received about one third of the companies. The other companies received support of 60% of the insurance income. Expectedly, most companies with a decline of more than 50% are from the tourism sector. According to data from the National Insurance Institute, in implementation of Decree No 213 of the Council of Ministers of 2021, 52 million were paid. lv. 2289 employers to maintain the employment of 68 000 workers and employees, with the implementation of the measure contributing to the reduction of unemployment in the country. The data from the Employment Agency show that registered unemployment has reached its lowest value of 4.96% on August 19th...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u76	Time, Mr. Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u77	Through the new design of the measure, not only has the provided financial resources from the state budget been more effectively directed towards companies with a greater need to support the preservation of jobs and incomes of persons, but also more appropriate from the point of view of the new socio-economic realities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer, but I have my frustration and I will tell you why. First of all, I believe that with the introduction of the new design of the measure introduced by you from 1 July, we will certainly limit the range of companies that will benefit from it. During the management of GERB, you had to prove a 20% drop in your revenues. In this way, I think that we will certainly limit the circle of companies that will benefit, while at the same time creating conditions for hiding incomes to prove such a decline. To demand a 40% drop in revenue, I think it means that this company must be driven to an absolute inability to function normally and pay salaries. Finally, I would like to tell you that as of 7 May 2021, which coincides with the end of the government of Boyko Borisov, the paid funds amount to 1 billion. 158 million. BGN, with which more than 300,000 jobs are reserved under the measure 60/40. According to these figures, if we do an analysis on a monthly basis, we'll see that our government paid 96 million a month. Five hundred thousand. lv. by measure 60/40. If this National Assembly continues to work, I reserve the right in a few months to ask the same question again so that we can do an analysis and introduce the Bulgarian citizens to the relevant statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u80	If not in this, in the next one, Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you go, Mr. Donev, for the dot. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, really under measure 60/40 is currently paid 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes Over 13 000 employers are supported by the measure, the employment of 311,000 workers and employees is maintained. Only for the period of action of Decree No 213 of the Council of Ministers of 2021 was the employment of 68 000 workers and employees, and 2289 employers were supported. It is apparent that the effectiveness of this measure and the modified design continue to work for the months of operation of the entire measure from the beginning of its introduction to the present time. Before we proceed to the change of design, we have examined and analyzed which economic activities are, who are businesses, how many employees are supported by this measure, and the data shows that there is no outflow of employers. It is normal to have a decline and to ask for a higher drop in turnover, as the economic activity in the country has improved during these months, with the measure being the most relative share taking the processing industry by 28%, following the sectors: mining industry - 22,2%, hotels and restaurants - notice, for these two months there are 21,4% support, transport and storage - by 11.4%. As regards the annual basis of the operation of the entire measure 60/40 with all the amendments during the period, it shows very well that the measure works effectively and supports the affected businesses. Otherwise, 20% decrease in turnover is few companies that have previously reported such a decrease in turnover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u82	Thank you, dear Minister, and for participating in parliamentary control today. A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group and then we move on to Mr. Panayotov's questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are closely monitoring the development of the epidemiological situation both in the country and around the world. Yes, we are concerned that there has been no lasting and effective solution to the COVID-19 crisis for over a year and eight months. However, it is important to bear in mind that, along with the health problem, we should not neglect both the social and economic effects that fall under a particular burden on several specific sectors, such as hotels, restaurants, transport and a number of others associated with them. It is disturbing what we observe as a request for policies on future actions which are already visible from the last order of the health minister. The instructions to be given regarding vaccination requirements or patients for workers in a number of public sectors, as well as access to these sites only from vaccinated and proven by a document that has been sick or with a proven PCR test, are contrary to the fundamental rights of citizens, including their right to work and to free access to public facilities. As a reaction to this order, mass workers have applied for leave to employers as a result of their pressure. This will lead to huge future problems which will result from a permanent inability to restore these sectors, due to a lack of not just prepared, but of staff at all. After several consecutive Lockdowns, we are about to permanently lose most of the people who are willing to work in these sectors at all. We demand the annulment of any discriminatory restrictions that divide society into vaccinated and unvaccinated, depriving the latter of their fundamental rights. Rely on the wisdom and intellect of the people, and do not try to frighten them and force them, ignoring the right to personal choice. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u84	Thank you. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Velizar Shalamanov, Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev on the organization of patrols for air sovereignty of Bulgaria/NATO in the growing risks of using MiG-29 to the Minister of Defence Georgi Panayotov. Who will develop the question? Here you are, Mr. Shalamanov. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Panayotov, Secretary of Defense! It's obviously a good day for the armed forces. Parliament shall devote the necessary time, shall be responsible and shall give a high degree of agreement. The question we have prepared with Mr. Martin Dimitrov and Mr. Georgi Ganev from our Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" is on a sensitive issue, especially in recent months, so I will allow myself to read it verbatimly. Air sovereignty is a permanent task of NATO's Supreme Operations Commander through NATO's integrated missile and anti-aircraft defence system with the participation of national forces and means. In the past almost 18 years since our NATO accession, Bulgaria has participated in this peaceful mission with old and limited capabilities, but expensive for maintaining radar and combat planes. It is no secret that due to the limited resources and full dependence on the Russian Federation for the airworthiness of MiG-29, the level of flight preparation of the pilots has long been below all reasonable limits. At the same time, the parliament adopted the Project for Investment Cost for the acquisition of a new multi-purpose fighter plane at the first stage eight pieces, and, as we understand, the implementation of the second stage is also being prepared. The forty-fifth Parliament has ratified by law a protocol to the Agreement with Romania on cross-border air sovereignty operations using third-party planes in NATO, thanks to the initiative of our parliamentary group, I would like to repeat once again, without the participation of a representative of the Ministry of Defence, as an importer of this bill, which was quite strange in parliamentary practice, but we did it thanks to the President. More than 30 years after the dissolution of the Warsaw Treaty and almost 18 years in NATO is incomprehensible to us the level of dependence of our defence system by the Russian Federation and the large costs associated with the maintenance of Soviet equipment in the absence of the necessary level of interoperability, low operational capabilities and direct payments to the Russian Federation, Belarus. In this regard, please answer the following questions: Firstly, what are the possibilities to speed up the acquisition of the required number of modern combat planes and the relevant infrastructure, including radars and means of command and management in full compatibility with NATO? Secondly, until acquisition and readiness to carry duty from the new Bulgarian aircraft, what are the options for carrying out the tasks of air sovereignty and defence without dependence on the Russian Federation and its close allies, such as Belarus, with effect from 1 January 2022, and at reasonable risk to the Bulgarian servicemen and all other citizens? What is the price and risk for each option? Thirdly, is it possible to rule out the dependence of the Russian Federation in Bulgaria's anti-aircraft defence system in NATO, including through anti-aircraft missile complexes? Fourth, do you consider the risk and cost of operating MiG 29, including in the context of the crash of 9 June 2021 near Shabla, where we lost one of our best fighter pilots, as acceptable in the context of our NATO membership and opportunities for solidarity support? And five, when will the data from the black box of the crashing MiG-29 be read and complete the full investigation of the incident, including the preparation and conduct of the exercise, jointly with forces from Serbia, which, as far as I know, are not a NATO member? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u86	You're running out of time, Mr. Shalamanov! You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shalamanov, Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Ganev! Every one of the questions you ask me, Mr. Shalamanov deserves his six minutes. I will try, however, within my six to meet all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u88	Actually, there are five of them, Mr. Panayotov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u89	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u90	But I'll give you one more.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u91	I'm grateful. About the first question. The implementation of the first stage for the acquisition of a new type of combat plane is underway, as I said today. These are the second eight planes out of 16 for which there is a decision of the National Assembly. Steps have been taken by the Ministry of Defence for the acquisition of these planes, which must be in identical configuration according to the National Assembly's decision with an estimated delivery time frame 2024. Their value will be specified once we have received an answer from the American side, as I have already said. With the completion of a fighter air squadron F-16 in the air base "Graf Ignatevo" will create conditions for fulfilling NATO's requirements for interoperability and technological compatibility and for extending Bulgaria's contribution to the Alliance's collective defence. In order to ensure NATO-compatible radar systems, the Air Force Project has been initiated to acquire new tricoordinate radars and for the implementation of the first stage of this project, the Ministry of Defence has prepared an investment cost project for the acquisition of five fixed and two mobile radars; integrated logistical support and training with a time frame of operational readiness. lv. This project has been endorsed by the Ministry of Defence and is to be presented for adoption to the Council of Ministers for the purpose of inter-departmental coordination and provision of funding, as well as approval to the National Assembly, of course. The accelerated acquisition of the systems listed above is linked to the provision of necessary funds for the implementation of which political and public support is needed. I agree with your words that today the National Assembly, thank God, pays attention to the Bulgarian Army. As I've always said, a strong army means a strong country! I'm moving on. During the defence review, an analysis of the capabilities for the implementation of the missions and tasks assigned and the available capabilities of the Air Force was carried out while examining options for overcoming the deficit of capabilities in line with the necessary and available funds in the period 2021. An option has been accepted to maintain and develop the available capabilities of the fighter and attack aircraft. One squadron MiG-29, one squadron Su-25, and to build the fighter air squadron F-16 in the air base. The Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria shall carry a continuous combat mission with fighters for action in any weather conditions and at any time of the day, with extremely short take-off time for those given under the operational command of the Union Command on NATO operations. Until the use of the F-16 aircraft to carry out this MiG-29 task will be the only option. As you know, Bulgaria has paid money for these planes. They have not been given to us. In the framework of NATO's integrated anti-aircraft and anti-missile defence system, the practice of implementing a joint é Polysing from the territory of Bulgaria continues, with the Ministry of Defence providing the opportunity to re-establish forces of allies on request and plans approved by NATO. Overcoming the dependence of the Russian Federation on the maintenance of available equipment and weapons Russian production in the anti-aircraft defence system is only possible after the acquisition and use of identical or higher-class weapons systems compatible with NATO allies. In order to develop these abilities and reduce the dependence of the Russian Federation in the Ministry of Defence, a project has been initiated. The project is currently financially uncertain with a deadline for implementation of 2032. Its estimated financial framework is from 300 million to 1 billion. 220 million. US dollar, not BGN, but US dollar, depending on the acquisition option of a particular manufacturer. MiG-29 aircraft, which are armed in Bulgaria. Those aeroplanes shall be operationally viable and operated technically until the end of their life cycle. The operations carried out on aeroplanes in the types of flight preparations, regulations and storage shall be carried out in strict compliance with the requirements of the technical documentation of that technique. A strict aircraft status control system has been established, thereby ensuring the safety of flights in terms of the technicality of aircraft. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that an aeroplane or helicopter would not be allowed to fly when a failure, malfunction or defect has been detected, including if any is suspected. Right now, the MiG-29 crashes that took place are the result of a human factor. All of them. In the light of the above, the Ministry of Defence considers that there is no risk in the operation of MiG-29 aircraft in terms of their operational reliability and the use of financial resources for their maintenance. In view of the above-mentioned benefits in the operational aspect, the provision of the country's air sovereignty and the contribution to NATO's collective defence, it is necessary to ensure that aircraft are operated.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u92	Mr. Minister, may I...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u93	About the very important question about the black box, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u94	Okay, but we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u95	I'm sorry. According to preliminary information from the Russian side, the data from the black box module will be read and analyzed within one working week. All members of the Bulgarian group have already submitted documents to the embassy of the Russian Federation for issuing visas, permissions from the Russian side are given, soon the group will leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u96	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for supplementary questions. Here you go, Mr. Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister Panayotov, as you well know, at the summit in Wales 2014, with the adopted Plan to increase preparedness and for forward deployment, a number of measures have been taken to reduce the vulnerability of Eastern European countries from technology controlled by Russia and to maintain technology from the time of the Warsaw Treaty. Has Bulgaria taken advantage of these opportunities in order to receive the necessary assistance from the other 29 countries of the Alliance, which are the richest and most highly technologically developed countries and with a proven commitment to ensuring Atlantic solidarity? And a second question. Since the issue of the Bulgarian MiG-29 is historical, it is studied by many people, there are many developments, I can provide you with some of them, but for at least 22 years, when a contract is concluded between Bulgaria and RSCC MiG. We have 20 planes, of which only three are flying. During the whole time, they have never flown more than 3 to 5 aircraft, which led to the fact that Bulgarian pilots do not have the time in the air to maintain their preparation. This creates a risk for them above all, creates a risk for our security, creates a risk for citizens who rely on these planes. How will you resolve the issue of the lack of flight hours and prevent such types of accidents, incidents that have been caused by insufficient time to prepare our pilots? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u98	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u99	Mr. Shalamanov, I would like to confirm that Bulgaria has not made full use of the opportunities provided by NATO, its structures, and also the opportunities provided by the individual allies in this regard. I will give an example that is additional to those you have given. The construction of the infrastructure of F-16 at the base of Graff Ignatievo could not be done through a NATO agency which is a specialized agency to provide services for building infrastructure for military sites. The agency's services have not been sought, no negotiations have been conducted at all, no contacts. It's inexplicable to me. I have already announced it, but I say I am absolutely solidarity with your conclusion that the opportunities given to Bulgaria's membership in the North Atlantic Alliance are insufficiently used to build the necessary infrastructure as well as to support the weapons available to the armed forces. For the first time this year, one of the helicopters will be renovated in Spain through the NATO agency. So we started using the services of this agency, thank God, for something at least. About MiG-29 flight hours. Yes, they are absolutely insufficient, you are absolutely right about this, because the technique is insufficient. The only solution is the re-arming of the Bulgarian Army and the acquisition of new more capabilities, including fighter aircraft. I didn't say for a reason that eight F-16s are practically not an ability, it's extremely insufficient. One squadron consists of between 14 and 16 planes. If Bulgaria wants to guard its skies, we must have at least one fighter aircraft squadron. This is the outcome of the defence investment, and I would like to add that these defence investments must be accompanied by transparency, with control, with smart management, with management, so that there is a desire and necessary effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor to express your attitude, Mr. Shalamanov, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Panayotov, I am really pleased with your answers, the personal commitment that you have shown to change. That is why it was, in fact, the decision on the previous debate to obtain from you an objective and professional assessment of what has been achieved under the 2020 Programme, and I hope that the Commission will be able to listen to you once we have not been able to reach an agreement in the plenary on the implementation of the 2032 Programme and the opportunities to improve it, including using the instruments of our membership in NATO and in the European Union, and engaging our defence industry. What I would like to add and you mentioned it in a way, but I would expect real development is the possibility that our aircraft and missile complexes could be maintained with the assistance of Ukraine, which was also part of the Soviet Union, has the full range of capabilities for maintenance of equipment, has the same equipment as Bulgaria, and also has not declared NATO, in particular Bulgaria, a major opponent, and does not violate the rules for shipping and aviation on the Black Sea, which is in fact the main source of tension and pressure on our air forces. I believe that by considering these options, closer cooperation with allies can be sought by limiting the use of services of Serbia, Russia, Belarus, because this, in addition to creating a risk to our defence, compromises Bulgaria's position in NATO and the European Union, and this limits the opportunities to benefit from the trust of these countries from the level of exchange of information to the level of re-arming programmes that would lead to better results, with less money in less time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u102	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. Thank you for participating in the control today, Minister Panayotov. We are now going to the questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Violeta Komitova. She's the most popular minister today. He'll answer nine questions and one question. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the stage of realization of the project for doubling an existing route of road I-5 in the section from km 236,3 to km 241,6 in order to achieve the G20 gauge, which is the only connection between Stara Zagora and the road hub of the highway Trakiya. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, Stara Zagora is a wonderful city, the sixth largest in the country, with a population of 134,726 people, center of the fifth largest district in Bulgaria, with 321 thousand. 377 population. I hope I'm correct in the data. The stable economic development of the region gives it second place in gross domestic product per capita in Stara Zagora. What I'm saying is not to advertise Stara Zagora, but to raise an extremely important question for Stara Zagoras about the state of the city's only connection with Trakia Motorway. Yes, this big city is left with a single connection to the highway and what state this connection is in is explained to excite Stara Zagoras from the distant 2005. 2006 because the connections of a city to key roads, such as Trakia Motorway, are of great importance for transport connections and through them for the entire regional economy. The six-kilometer connection between Stara Zagora and Trakia Motorway is part of road I-5 Shipka This is a prerequisite for voltage among drivers of motor vehicles and for road accidents. There are further aggravating circumstances. So my question to you, Madam Minister, is: at what stage is the implementation of the project for doubling the existing route of route I-5 in the section from km 236.3 to km 241.6 in order to achieve the G20 gauge, which is the only connection between Stara Zagora and the road hub of the highway..Trakiya, at its 208th km? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Comitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, this is about one time from 5 km, which is known to all Bulgarians. We call it the I-5 Shipka "Kasanlak" around the ring road Stara Zagora "Sredets" Dimitrovgrad. The task of this road is to expand, technically means translating me into the G20 gauge. However, unfortunately, this project was developed as early as 2008, there was a technical project that, by today, this project as a technical project is no longer up-to-date, as it does not comply with current regulations, as well as with increased traffic and with the development of terrains located on both sides of this road. In view of the implementation of major infrastructure projects of national importance these are the motorways "Struma" and "Hemus" and "Europe" and modernization of some other roads such as Vidin "Botevgrad" and so on, so work on these local sites is carried out in a limited financial framework and does not allow the Road Infrastructure Agency to include the road we are talking about in its investment programme for the period 2018 - 2021, i.e. to date it is not included in the investment programme. We are committed to looking for an opportunity for some public procurement to first develop a new technical project for doubling the gauge of this road; to improve the connection to this important city of Bulgaria with the highway. Stara Zagora, but this public procurement will have to rely on budget 2022, as I have repeatedly stated here that our Road Agency has exceeded the budget allowed for such activities in 2021. Otherwise, to date, current repairs are being carried out on this track. You probably know better than I do, which, unfortunately, involve only patching holes and small deformations on the pavement, small repairs, alignment of banquets, excavations and cutting of bushes, spending about 13,000. lv. for these petty activities. I agree that they do not solve the issue in general. First, I am deeply convinced that this time it needs to be renovated, reconstructed and expanded. I also fully agree with your opinion that a city such as Stara Zagora should have at least two links with the highway.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u106	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, let's get this straight: from your answer I understand that we are back at the starting point at the moment a new technical project. That is, Stara Zagora, the Stara Zagora business and their guests for at least another ten years will not have a modern and fast connection, a link that was of local importance, which compared to the large infrastructure sites that stop and cost negligible little money, and against the backdrop of the money API has negotiated a billion and a half, despite the limited financial framework, is a drop in the sea. There's obviously no interest in such small objects, because the commissions are small. Of course, my question is formally addressed to you. For the delay the blame is in the carelessness of a whole bunch of ministers and governments, in this case all of them from GERB, who pre-election and post-election promised, gave a word, but failed and no one to take responsibility for them. I will allow myself to introduce you, Minister, and Stara Zagoras to several lines of the shorthand of 23 March 2018, which contain the reply of the then Minister of GERB to my question about this relationship and commitment. In 2018 we will issue a construction permit for the site and make a commitment from this tribune that in 2019 it will be included in API's budget programme for realization, even this year. In 2019: After securing the resource I make a commitment from this tribune we will start with the real activities and so on. A little more: What I make as a commitment is that in 2020 we will have such an approach. So, Minister, that was my question about local sites, about false promises, so that they would know what the former ministers' attitude to their problem was.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u109	I'm sorry, I can't be in charge of previous actions, but you're all already very familiar with my media statements that we've come across a chaotic planning and repairing of our road infrastructure, in the sense: first, exceeding the money that has been allocated under a budget, which is a violation of the Budget Act and the Public Procurement Act repeatedly, second, without priorities. We've given n a number of companies with 20-million contracts won in public procurement, we've given jobs to do 200-million jobs to repair roads without priorities. If I would manage this process, I would first completely fit into the budget, which is set by the National Assembly, I would order the roads by priorities... in the most critical state, in the better, and in the longer term, and I would not govern in this chaotic way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Comitova. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Velizar Shalamanov concerning a systematic violation of water supply in settlements from Plovdiv district of Krastevich village, Hissar municipality; Karavelovovo village and Bogdan village, Karlovo municipality. You have the floor, Mr. Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Komitova, I actually received your written reply after the meeting last week, which I am satisfied with. I have already informed the people in the municipality of Hisarya, the village of Krastevich, both in Karavelovovo and Bogdan. Naturally, the question of the village of Krastevich is more difficult to resolve, as people expect to receive 3 million from the Ministry for an investment project of the municipality and after the construction of this infrastructure to be transferred to the water service. If you allow me, I will limit my question to the possibility of providing such funding and, if not possible: what are the other instruments so that the municipality of Hisarya can implement a project to build a backup water supply system for the village of Krastevich in relation to the problems that are presented in the issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u112	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shalamanov, I gave you the written answer last week. In Krastevich, we do have a very serious problem. I think the residents were about 380. This problem is due to an old plumbing network, and also to insufficient water sources. We have two problems here. However, this problem dates back about 35 years. At the Regional Ministry, we found multiple files. Many times the people of Krastevich asked for help and did not receive it. We have already found, we have not created this project, we have a project that is called the construction of additional water supply of the village of Krastevich from a well that must solve the problem, first by providing the amount of water that is worth 3 million. To date, for 2021, it has not entered into the Regional Ministry's plan. We've got 20 million for such projects. We found it unbalanced in this plan. Either way, for next year, we need to think very seriously about this issue, and in all water projects we have three funding options. The first is one of the funds that the Regional Ministry has, especially in the water sphere, this is the first opportunity for funding. The second option that can be supported is from the budget of the municipality of Hisarya, which is the owner of the network to seek targeted funding. We also have the opportunity through the Bulgarian Water Holding to support this process, so we seriously think in this direction. The fourth source is the corresponding water company.. Plovdiv. The problem of financing, investment in the water sector, concerns all matters, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Investments in water networks through our water companies naturally affect the cost of water. This worries us very much as they bet on their business plans and there is no way when you make an investment that does not affect the end product. So we have a very thin line here how we're going to deal with all these problems. I'm familiar with this problem anyway. In fact, I'd like to tell you that according to newspaper publications, the prosecution is after me for stopping the taps in Krastevich on August 2nd. The Regional Minister, who is responsible for this problem on newspaper publications, stands before you. But the D.A. didn't make me think about it, we're familiar with this problem, it concerns many of our settlements.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. You have the floor for a line, if you like. Here you go, Mr. Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, and once again, for your commitment. I think this is the beginning of a solution to the question. I just want to say that during the hearing of Mr. Ivan Ivanov as Chairman of the KEWRC, the proposal to move on to licensing of water companies so that they really are subject to stricter control. What I want to share with you is that the expectation of citizens in the village of Krastevich, and in other settlements where there are similar problems with whose mayors I have talked to, is that when there are problems in water supply, they expect water companies to provide alternative sources of water supply, including watermen, to be informed in due time and precisely about the problems and the times when these problems will limit water supply. This would reduce at least psychological stress from this in a hot summer, during an epidemic crisis, not knowing when and what water they will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u116	Thank you. I see you're getting ready for your douche bag. Come on in, Mrs. Comitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u117	Since we cut pretty much the answer, we actually had a reduction in the flow rate this summer because of the drought. Our water sources fell, and somewhere on July 1st we communicated with the district governor, with the mayor of Hisarya and the mayor's deputy, and a warrant was issued to prohibit the use of water for watering purposes and for washing, and to remain only for drinking needs, as well as the town of Plovdiv, provided two watermelons for the village of Krastevich.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Comitova. We move on to the next question by the MP Martin Dimitrov about the need for the adoption of a Graphic Plan for a gradual issuance of technical passports for municipal and state buildings. You have the floor, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Madam Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating you, because a terribly banged-up problem of passporting the buildings has been resolved. We organized round tables, wrote open letters, had multiple meetings. Unfortunately, the previous government has made the whole mess of it. All buildings built before 2007 had to have technical passports by the end of the year, which is impossible. That led to three billion. lv. additional expenditure for Bulgarian citizens. People called me and asked how about the house of the village grandparents to give between 500 and 600 leva. We were asked that question in mass. You might as well have told us as some of your colleagues: I am here a minister of service, Mr. Dimitrov, this mess has been involved a long time ago, what can I do? Instead, you have decided the case, you have amended the regulation, you have heard our message, which we are very pleased with. It's the right thing to do! This must be a lesson for your fellow ministers who say: but we are here ministers of the service, what can we do?! Many can be done, and the task of this Parliament is to do as much as it is available, and every minister of the service, no matter how long his mandate lasts, is to do as many good deeds as possible. That's the point! Because now we tell the woman who asks us from the village: there is no need for private buildings to take out technical passports if there are no substantial structural changes. So you're saved from this quasi-tax. This is the result, which is a great result. This Parliament and Bulgaria need such results, such solutions. My specific question to you today. In the amendments to Regulation No 5 you have correctly written down a longer period for municipal and public buildings for public state and public municipal property, the technical passports in question are to be drawn up by the end of 2032. And my question to you is: how much prioritization is possible and how much is possible for a plan-graphic how to happen, because there is a danger, it is only about municipal and state buildings, there is a danger that many municipalities and the principals will leave the resolution of this issue for the end of the period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, this regulation on technical passports was a misunderstanding. She was deeply showing a misunderstanding of what technical passports were used for. I'm just gonna open a clamp. For ten years now, we have been creating technical passports when putting all new constructions into operation. This is now a binding document. This regulation wanted to cover all existing old buildings, forced us to create technical passports for them, and the meaning of a technical passport under the Law for construction on the territory is required for old buildings only if you intend to do some construction works, i.e. in reconstructions, renovations, renovations and so on, other interventions. This was a pointless requirement and would have burdened, naturally, senselessly many citizens who had no intention of carrying out construction works in their buildings. We changed this regulation, it was within the authority of the regional minister. The matter is closed, but we have left all public and public buildings inside the public municipal and state property, with a longer period of time. This term is 10 years old, as some of these buildings will be renovated into the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and they will not have to make passports. Some of these buildings will enter under other programmes related to the Energy Efficiency Act, and ultimately part of the buildings will have to produce these passports. In addition, we must now fit into the requirements of the Energy Efficiency Act, under which we must pursue a national objective to make energy savings for all heated or cooling buildings used by the public administration, and measures have been taken annually and savings measures of at least 5% of energy consumption will continue to be taken. And in the requirements, here I make a connection to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, there we will pursue even savings over 30% energy. So we will gradually have to deal with these tasks to create passports by 2032. It's about a graphics plan. Unfortunately, the Regional Ministry is not responsible for all buildings public and municipal property, but perhaps together with the Agency for Sustainable Energy Development, we should make some plan not to do so all things at the end of the term, but slowly, gradually, without stress and calmly produce these documents, which are required anyway under two other laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Komitova! Once again, I would stress that for private buildings built before 2007, as a result of the efforts of Mrs. Komitova and the questions raised by us repeatedly, the organized round tables, the open letters that we wrote, the matter has been resolved. It's decided! That's three billion. lv. will not be paid by Bulgarian citizens. People won't have to pay between 500 and 600 leva. for a technical passport. And, by the way, when I spoke to Mrs. Komitova on this topic the first time, she corrected me, she said: "Mr. Dimitrov, things are worse than what you are saying." In other words, you have to make the grandmother in the village every seven years give 500. for a technical passport. This is the mess that was involved and that is the question people have asked us: "Why do you let this happen, why do you not solve the issue? " - Well, the question is solved and this is the way to proceed. Regarding the reply to you, Mrs. Komitova, whether it is not wise to make an interdepartmental working group, yet you see that it is not clear how long the term of office will last, which an interdepartmental working group will consider how to engage other ministries, other principals, municipal companies so that there is a plan. It is only about municipal and state buildings, how to organise the issue of technical passports there. Because, again, there is the risk, if there is no privatization and if there is no plan-graphic, all municipalities and relevant government departments to wait for the last moment. In other words, would such an interdepartmental working group not be able, having more powers and more competence than you, if it were under the Prime Minister's hat, to organise some sort of plan-graphic for municipalities and for public buildings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u124	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u125	Thank you for the second time. I accept this idea of an interdepartmental working group, which should most likely be led by the Regional Ministry, because we have experts who understand this matter and could deploy the whole process in time by types of buildings, by priorities, by urgency, by less urgency and by distance over time. We accept that idea, we'll think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u126	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to a question from the National Representative Mincho Hristov concerning the right of ownership of the land under and around the residential buildings owned by Bulgarian citizens who are built on municipal and state land. You're welcome to develop your question, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, regarding what I just heard, I would like to correct you. There was no misunderstanding about this passportation. This was pure racketeering and robbery by criminal politicians to the Bulgarian people. It was about 3 billion that would have been taken off the back of Bulgarian citizens. 400, 500, 600 lv. to a family, and every seven years. I remember how history began in 2006, when in an unknown way one word fell out, lost in the Commission, and then it became all the buildings had to pull out these energy passports. That's a criminal story, I'd say, mafia history. Now we're talking about it. Several million Bulgarians, Madam Minister, live in residential neighborhoods where the land under their blocks is municipal, they have only a given right to construction. Currently there is a legal opportunity for citizens to purchase land under their homes. For the record, that's somewhere between 15 and 20,000. lv. For a hundred square feet. I say too, it's pure racketeering and robbery. What is the guarantee that tomorrow an unholy, I would say, criminal government or criminal parliament will not decide that this land should be purchased by citizens forced, not voluntarily, as it is now? So, I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u128	To the point, Mr. Christov, time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u129	I'm sorry. My question is: is it not time for the matter to be resolved once and for all and for the land to be granted to the Bulgarian citizens free of charge? It may be about three million Bulgarian citizens. And I appeal to Parliament: colleagues, before we disband, if we are going to relax, let us resolve this issue. I, by the way, have also introduced a law on this subject, but not to take away the minister's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u130	Then you can continue in the line. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, I see that you have been dealing with this issue for many years, and by addressing it to us, we have produced a short statistic just for the information of our MPs. In 2012, our National Centre for Territorial Development did a census and we have about 2 million residential buildings with 3 million and 800 dwellings in them, of which 710 thousand are panel housing. This issue is mainly about these panel complexes built in Bulgaria during the period of socialism, which are located in huge neighborhoods....................................... This case relates to a change in legislation. Just for the record, according to our data, 1.5 million inhabitants live here. You said 3 million, but these are our studies from 2012, I don't know how reliable these data is, but no matter how many Bulgarian citizens live in them. In the Law on Construction in the Area, this way of construction is called "complex construction" and means in a very large plot.. 5, 10, 50, 100 acres can have 2, 3, 20, 30 and 50 buildings and they all have rights on this regulated land property. They're all owners of all this land. And at the moment there is such a legal possibility in the Law on Construction of the Territory in a plot to make two or three buildings and is called the complex construction. We call them "panel residential complexes" but as a term is called "complex building." The transfer of land to individual entities in this territory must take place under some special mechanism that we should still be working on, as there is no way to transfer 50 acres to 45 inhabitants. The earth is common and has no specific boundaries. In order to carry out this procedure, we can only transfer land when there are specific boundaries of the property, an identification number in the cadastral map and a square so that it can be valued and transferred. So your idea of transferring these uses to land is possible, but it will take a long job to go a long way, to create the corresponding pieces of land under each block, to make changes to the cadastral maps, to regulate the relationship between the owners and these pieces of land. Perhaps we will also come to some coherent legislation, in the Law on Municipal Property we should make some changes, in the Law on State Property, and the regulations for their application. So the question is solved, I'm not saying it can't be solved, but it's going to have to go a little longer. To date, our legislation does not provide for legal opportunities. You know very well about the free transfer of land that is under such panel blocks. There is an opportunity to purchase land in a certain order, but it is still only an opportunity. Technically, this thing has to prepare too many things and changes to do. And ultimately, the initiative for this thing can come from the citizens, it can also come in some general legislative order by sanctioning the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u132	Mrs. Komitova, we've made a lot of progress. Maybe you'll end up in the back if there's anything important left.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u134	Here's a line for you, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u135	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That is exactly what I am saying and that the ball is in our court, honourable Members, legislative sanctions are needed. I, by the way, have proposed this law. I hope that in the short time of our parliament, as much as he has left, he will accept it. A million and a half Bulgarians deserve this. Actually, I've been fighting this battle for 15 years. The great Bulgarian lawyer Vladimir Petrov wrote this law. I'll only read you the motives. I introduced this law two weeks ago, pretty much here in our parliament. At present 1.5 million Bulgarian citizens are not owners of the land under and around their homes. As a result, the situation in the interblock spaces continues a promiscuous construction that takes away the living space and air of the residents there. It is absurd at this time, the Law does not allow the state and municipalities to offer citizens to buy out the land adjacent to or around their own dwellings. It's like they want the air we breathe tomorrow to buy it. I will now show you one more document, Madam Minister, and I will also give it to you, honourable Members. This is an official opinion of the Law Council in the Fortyth National Assembly. Twenty of the most prominent lawyers have pronounced and written the following: The advisory council on legislation finds that the bill is necessary. It deals with an extremely important issue for the numerous owners of housing built on state or municipal land by granting them the right to property on this land and on the land in the surrounding areas. I'm not reading to you. The document is in the Ministry of Justice of our National Assembly in 2008, colleagues. So I sincerely hope and my request is to all of you, regardless of your party differences and the quarrels we have witnessed in recent days, let us take a stand and resolve this issue, which concerns 1.5 million Bulgarian citizens. It's about simple justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u136	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Your bill is assigned to the relevant committee. You have the floor for the back, if you like. No. Let's move on to the next question. In fact, this is a question by the National Representative Bonka Vasileva about guaranteeing the security of the citizens of Bulgaria during the upcoming autumn and winter period, stepping on the worrying facts about the implementation of repairs concerning landslides, collapses and other types of reinforcements of road lanes of the company. You have the floor to develop your question, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Comitova, dear colleagues! As the winter season is coming and I suppose the so-called collapses, landslides will be activated and these problems will become more and more ill, I asked Mrs. Komitova about how the security of Bulgarian citizens will be guaranteed. At the beginning of the year, we witnessed terrible confusions not only in Sofia, but also in other cities related to the formation of landslides, threatening life, and on the hair of Bulgaria did not sacrifice any of these processes. My questions, Mrs. Komitova, are mainly related to information that you gave to one of your press conferences on the activities of the Automagistrali ЕАД and the subsequent change of the bosses who are on API. I'm going to read the facts specifically so that I don't make any mistake related to the figures. 430 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. lv. are translated into a company that has concluded contracts with 25 companies worth 188 million. These contracts concern 84 sites, as to date of all 84 sites there is only one implemented.. this is the collapse near the Rila Monastery, which is for the estimated amount of 6 million. This means that 182 million are still in the subcontractors, and the remaining 83 sites are in the design phase. The terms of the contracts shall be from 2019 until the end of 2021. In the context of this information, my questions are: what part of the 83 sites will be completed by the end of 2021? Where are the objects located and at what stage of implementation are they? What measures will be taken in the event of non-compliance with contracts? Are there any penalties recorded in these contracts? What urgent measures will be taken to secure the objects, given the upcoming seasons and the fact that they are related to road infrastructure? It is clear to all of us that most likely these contracts cannot be met by the end of 2021. The question is: what can we do, because ultimately people's lives are much more important than money, contracts and everything else? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. You have the floor to answer, Madam Minister, within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Vasileva, you have relatively well clarified the facts with these landslides, only you neglected to say that in 2019 this money was granted urgently by Order of the Council of Ministers. Minister Petya Avramova's motives are mine, but I am not prepared to give them to you. She says there is an urgent need to repair 84 landslides, collapses and falls, and other types of reinforcements of road sails. In a hurry, 188 million advances are made and two-year contracts are concluded, ending December of this year. What we found when we entered the caretaker government, we found that none of these landslides had permission to build, except the Rila Monastery. There are some problems there, but they are not so significant, and all the other 83 did not even have projects, and this year they have to be completed by the end of the year. We also found out that out of these 84 emergency sites, most of them are not registered as landslides at all, so you're going somewhere with an eye and you're saying that there's something here and the repair is going to cost 16 million. We've established estimates of two groups of experts who have estimated that the construction of a landslide X is worth 400,000. BGN, but we're assigning a 16 million contract to repair it and so on. Many, many irregularities. I don't want to bother you with these details. To date, however, we have tried to force the process and besides the Rila Monastery we are working on four landslides: a landslide at the village of Kozar Belene, Byala Botevgrad is the road We've been working on these, implementing them as construction, pushing for documents, building permits, and building them. We hope they'll be finished by the end of the year. We are working on several more landslides and are in the project phase of 14 pieces, for 10 we expect building permits. However, time is running out anyway. The end of 2021 comes, we enter the winter season, the probability of completing all 84 is zero. If we finish a third of them, it will be good, then we will have to try to deal with these contracts, with these huge advances that have been distributed to companies. To date, we do not touch these contracts because we still hope that our companies who have taken the advances will deal with this serious problem because it is for all Bulgarian citizens. In case of emergency. Normal Road Infrastructure Agency is capable of performing emergency repairs, we also have options because they can occur emergency situations at other landslides, outside this list, it is an established practice. With the order of the respective mayor, we have the opportunity to make rapid, urgent safety measures in the event of occurrence or detection of processes called landslide work. During the winter, our district road stations have an obligation to go around, to monitor the Republican road network whether there are any distortions and to take measures. Of course, the best thing is to remove defects with repairs, but when we don't have this opportunity, we deal with an organization of movement, we divert movement, clean up and so on. These are the lightest measures that can be applied in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. You have the floor for supplementary questions, if you like. No, okay. We move on to the next issue, which is from the MPs Dragomir Stoynev and Petya Tsankova concerning the project for repair of the Republican road II-37 Pazardzhik Here you are, Mrs. Tsankova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on 26 March this year at an official ceremony in the town of Pazardzhik, a first break in the implementation of a project concerning the repair of a Republican road between Pazardzhik and Batak was made. The activities envisaged to improve the operational state of the road are a long-awaited moment, as the road is important both for daily travelers from the municipalities of Peshtera and Batak, as well as for the economic development and development of tourism in our region. In this regard is also our question: is there a secure funding for the implementation of a project for the repair of the Republican road Pazardzhik "Batak"; what are the reasons for the project to remain on the ground and not to start the actual activities on it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u142	Mrs. Komitova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tsankova and Mr. Stoynev, in this case I would like to tell you that on 26 March 2021, you have quoted here that there was an official ceremony in Pazardzhik for a first dig, but to date we do not have a project for this time. I don't know who made this dig, but I'm connecting it to political and election events. I don't know how true it is, you claim this thing, I don't go first digs. What's the whole case? For this time, a company is responsible for this company, which is referred to as the "European Roads" JSC, which is responsible for road maintenance throughout Pazardzhik region for the so-called current repairs and maintenance. Five-year contracts with public procurement are now not in front of me the contract, for example 30 million after given jobs for three hundred of APIs. This firm has a contract with us, it has to maintain this Republican road network. Because she wanted to be all this in engineering, respectively for your road II-37 Pazardzhik BGN, which is the commitment of the company "European Roads" AD, which is not yet agreed at the Institute of Roads and Bridges, i.e. on this project, even if we had funding, we cannot start building. Otherwise, that's just the price of a paper project, so to speak. According to a preliminary estimate, the repair of this section will require 42 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. with VAT. They must be provided by the Republican budget. The project includes activities to improve the drainage of road construction, replacement of asphalt, new restrictive systems, marking and road signs, as well as restoration of some large and small structures along the route. At the moment, only some of the preparatory activities are being carried out because, again, first of all, the project is not agreed as a commitment of the company............................... is not agreed at the Institute of Roads and Bridges.......................................... In any case, I agree with you that this is a very important communication, it concerns not only the people in this area, but all Bulgarian citizens pass through it, but to date, as you know that with the so-called current repairs and roads we have a budget of API 382 million. BGN, the previous management has negotiated up to 1.5 billion. lv. I can tell you that, to date, no funding has been secured. We are planning for the next budget for 2022. API will already have a budget of 1.5 million. BGN, which is necessary for ongoing repair and maintenance of roads, and on a normal road without stress to maintain all roads throughout the country, including in your particular case.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u144	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u145	Since we have established that for four years API has had a budget of 380 million. BGN, and finally spends $2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u147	We believe that this should be laid down in the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u148	Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u149	Dear Mrs. Komitova, I am extremely grateful for the answer I received from you. Unfortunately, my expectations have come true. By the way, according to the information of the Regional Administration Pazardzhik, there is a publication from which it becomes clear and visible how candidates for MPs from GERB and the mayor of Pazardzhik Todor Popov municipality make their first dig. But unfortunately, we have witnessed another PR action by the ruling majority. I expected it might also be a contract with uninsured funding, but let's not look into the past. We must look into the future and do our best to secure an opportunity from the next budget with a responsible government decision......................Whether a caretaker government or a regular government will bet the necessary financial resources. Of course, in the case of transparency of public procurement, at reasonable prices corresponding to the real prices of the labour market, and in the case of a guarantee of quality to enable this time to be really realized because it is for the prosperity of the field, of course, and for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Tsankova. Madam Minister, for the back? I won't. We move on to the next question from Krum Georgiev Donchev on investments for rehabilitation of the network of VK Gabrovo located on the territory of Sevlievo. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, a few weeks ago after hearing the Chairman of the KEWRC about the business plans and proposals on the business plans of the operators regarding the pricing of Bulgaria we witnessed how many municipal councils basically rejected the operators' proposals. However, this is not about prices. It's about whether there's water at all. One of the examples I will give is related to Sevlievo. It's a dream for sebuleans to rain to flow out of their fountains of mud. This isn't a problem from yesterday. This problem has been going on for years. We have even witnessed Mr. Borisov 10 years ago went and promised that Sevlievians would bathe. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, on the territory of Gabrovo district, Sevlievo municipality, the problem with water is the biggest. Dear Minister, my question to you is: are the funds provided for construction works and in what size is the replacement of an eastern etheric water supply from a Cleaning station in the village of Burya located on the territory of the municipality of Sevlievo, Gabrovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u152	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mrs. Komitova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u153	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Donchev, with this question about the water of Sevlievo I have been acquainted four years ago as Deputy Minister of the previous caretaker government. With great surprise I realized then, in 2017, that Sevlievo has been in water mode for 30 years. I was really surprised, but here comes the occasion to tell you what happened. This water pipeline covers too many villages in Gabrovo, Kamishtitsa, Musga, Gubene and so on, seven villages from the municipality of Sevlievo, Bugatovo, Tarnovo, Krushevo and so on, a settlement formation of Sevlievski vineyards. Many residents are affected by this drama. At the moment, you know, this territory continues to be supplied with old plumbing, which is with etherite pipes from the middle of the last century and it is about a 35 km track, which, firstly, has a lot of losses, but in 2017 I also realized that the route is going through a very difficult terrain and the project itself will be difficult. Either way, to date, this project is divided into two sections. The first stage of the Drinking Water Purification Station in the village of Sevlievo and the village of Bugatovo, 21 km, worth about 18 million. lv. The second stage for the town of Sevlievo and the village of Bugatovo to a distribution shaft through the village of Dobromirka, 13 km and worth another 5 million. lv. Firstly, we need to complete this whole procedure, but to date, it cannot be said that nothing has been done about it. I will tell you that in 2017 MRRB granted the municipality of Sevlievo 400 thousand. lv., which are for some replacement. In 2020, MRRB granted Sevlievo Municipality about 10 million more. lv. With two ministerial decrees, I can tell you exactly who they are, which refer again to replacing parts of the plumbing. In 2021, another 730 thousand were granted on 15 April 2021. BGN, i.e. 12 million has been allocated so far. lv. on that subject. Now what's done, we're gonna have to check it out on the spot. But what's next? The development of the so-called Regional Pre-investment Survey is started for Gabrovo District, which gives an accurate assessment of the need for water networks. It is currently funded under the current Operational Programme 2014-2020 and will define the sites that will be priorityd for funding by the European Union in the next programming period. In this pre-investigative survey, the Eastern water supply, which you ask about from the Purification Station village, the goods to the village of Burya is the subject of investigation, and the funds for its completion of the replacement will be applied for funding under the Operational Programme of the Environment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your reply to the extremely orderly, constructive, but I would like to draw your attention to potential funding opportunities. Unfortunately, the Recovery and Sustainability Plan was revised in its part to limit larger agglomerations. We're talking about agglomerations with more than 10,000 inhabitants. Here I would like to quote a sentence that is set out in the Plan that the Environment Programme will support investment in a water system based on developed regional pre-investment surveys for special areas served by a consolidated water service operator, focusing on agglomerations of more than 10,000 people. Unfortunately, this sentence looks good, but there is nothing contained in the budget framework. My request is that you also pay attention to one possible adjustment of the Plan to adjust the part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u156	Thank you. Mrs. Comitova, a douche bag?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u157	Excuse me, I didn't quite understand the question about the future budget 2022, are you talking about the Recovery and Sustainability Plan? Because for the second, we have placed water projects that cover settlements with 2 to 10,000 inhabitants? About the Recovery and Sustainability Plan? And you're asking about the Plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u158	As a funding opportunity, the part of the Plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u159	Got it. Thanks. We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u160	We move on to the next question from Hristo Mihailov Dochev about the restoration of water supply in the village of Sovata, Svishtov municipality, Veliko Tarnovo district. Here you go, Mr. Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u161	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question is related to water supply problems, we have already heard two of these. I do not know if Gabrovo district has the worst water supply network, in Veliko Tarnovo district we are also not proud of the best and in this sense is my question. It is about a settlement located on the main road between Svishtov and Veliko Tarnovo, the village of Sovata, and since 7 August the mayor of the municipality has declared a state of disaster because of the fact that water supply is missing due to a number of losses on the plumbing, which reach over 80%. The repair activities carried out by the water supply company Yovkovtsi do not produce the relevant result at all. At this time, by this morning, the water supply has been stopped again, as yesterday an experience has been made, but due to another accident such one is missing. My specific question is: what measures have been taken to provide drinking water and water for domestic needs to the residents of the village of Svishtov, and what actions has the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works taken for the overall solution of the water supply problems in Svishtov Municipality?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u162	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. Mrs. Komitova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dochev, I inform you about the village of Sovata that we have a water supply from two local water supply plants - a shaft well and drainage. From the drainage the water enters a reservoir for the village and follows a gravitational plumbing along many old asbestos-ocymic pipes, unfortunately, which are even worse than the etherite routes, and 13 km long, and from the shaft well it comes to the village with a water supply of 1.5 km long. All these networks are more than 50 years old and we've suffered constant accidents on them. Only from the beginning of the year until today have we recorded 30 accidents from the drain on the gravitational plumbing, which naturally further reduces the water supply to the village tank. It cannot, of course, be filled to the highest level and because of the low level of pressure tank certain parts of the village remain without water. I'm not as familiar with you as you are, but I do know that without water there are some of the superior parts of the village. Maybe my information isn't accurate. I'm sorry if I'm not well informed about the low-location buildings. We didn't stop the water supply, maybe something happened these days. In principle, I am deeply convinced that in order to solve this problem, we must completely replace the water supply and the plumbing network in the village. Here the case seems quite easy to solve, because we have water, but we have a very bad net that brings water to the settlement. We have at least four ways to fund this event. The first way is to include the site in the investment program of your water operator. Again, for everyone present, this always leads to an increase in the cost of water when investing in the network. The second way is the municipality of Svishtov as owner of the public water supply infrastructure to support the financing of this water supply. The third way, MRRB in 2017, 2018 and 2021 provided Svishtov with a million and a half leva for reconstruction of the water infrastructure in its territory. Perhaps that money didn't make it to the village we're talking about. The most bizarre thing is that I was preparing for your question, and I note to you that there has been no request from Svishtov Municipality for financing such a site for reconstruction of the water supply in the village of Sovata. Therefore, perhaps we should communicate more actively and provide for some measures with the small possibilities of the MRDP to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u165	More generally and conceptually for Veliko Tarnovo we are developing a regional pre-investment study, which will have the task of predicting a project for the village of Sovata, which will, however, be financed by the future programming period.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. For your reply, Mr. Dochev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u167	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam Minister, thank you for the information. I hope that there will be a positive development of the issue in particular in this village of Sovata, which is located on the main road, as I mentioned, about the district centre. There is another problem. The residents are so thrilled by the lack of water that they are carrying out protests on the main road and it comes to closing the road, nerves, quarrels with the police, with the mayor's deputy and so on. According to official information from the district administration, I received this last night, with a letter from the mayor of the municipality requesting assistance in connection with the declared disaster situation worth 200 thousand. BGN, like me, I do not know how this help is calculated and whether it will be enough to solve the problem. That may depend on your decision. Naturally, I, like all the citizens of the municipality, are looking for a lasting solution, not a solution to the matter per piece. Again, I appeal for your cooperation in solving this problem. Last but not least, we have a very difficult problem in another locality in the district of Resen, Veliko Tarnovo Municipality, which is why we will address you officially next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u168	Thank you, Mr. Dochev. For a line, Mrs. Comitova? You don't. We move on to the next question by the MP Krum Kostadinov Zarkov about the construction of the highway road Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo." Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the construction of the highway between Ruse and Veliko Tarnovo is one of the most important infrastructure projects for Northern Bulgaria. It is not surprising, then, that the question has been raised in this House repeatedly.. You are the third, if not the fourth minister to whom I am asking it. The ministers are changing, however, in the meantime, the section between the cities of Ruse and Byala continues to fill the black chronicles. Just a few days ago, on August 15th, a man and a woman were lost in a truck collision with a car. The incidents are practically daily, and the difficulty and risk of this road actually separates one of the most important Bulgarian cities from its development opportunities. That is why I have considered, Madam Minister, once again to address the importance of the safety of travelers and of the economic development of the entire region on this road and to ask you to answer: at what stage is its realization; are the necessary means available; within what time can we expect its completion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u170	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, it seems that there have been many questions here about this matter. It's a very long story. It started in 2015, when API awarded an idea project for this route, which you are asking about, Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo." $700,000 has been spent. lv. and in 2016 it was viewed at the Expert Council. Next year, the 2016 EIA report, a compatibility assessment report and a detailed development plan have been developed. We've spent another 200,000. lv. for these documents. Then we move on. I am not saying that they are unnecessary, but it is starting to prepare this project to be financed under the Programme of Transport and Transport Infrastructure 2014-2020, but events are developing in such a way that there is an appeal to the environmental impact assessment. There are some procedures in the court " 2017" 2018 and finally ends the EIA in 2019. After the already in force with a decision of the EIA Court, the work on the project continues. On 16 April 2020, the preliminary design for this route was developed. The project is already established that the project is divided into two sections: Ruse We're talking that these are our subjects. That's not interesting. At the same time, however, during the field studies, 37 archaeological sites were found, which we must protect. Their research is to be commissioned after the estrangement of the respective properties. To date, this has not been done. To date, the API continues to deal with this project, which has not yet been prepared in its final version and has not joined the MRB for issuing a building permit, and then, you know, estranged procedures under the State Property Act are being made. Separately this year the month of March has been awarded another additional project for 24 thousand. BGN, which is called the Road Safety Odite. There's a ranked participant, not a contract. We will need this project when we start building, but we are doing it this year in March. After all, we have a public procurement in December 2020. Many events have already taken place along this route to identify designers of technical projects. These technical projects are worth 1 million for each of those sections I mentioned to you. At the moment, an assessment of the technical proposals is being carried out, while we are also conducting a surveillance procedure for the site, which has not yet reached a final stage, as the Regional Ministry has remarks to a procedure called the Public Order. In any case, if this project is going to happen, it is planned to be financed under the Programme of Transport Connectivity 2021 - 2027 - which expects approval from the European Commission. Once the Programme has been established, the Managing Authority should also develop guidelines for applying for funding on the basis of which beneficiaries will develop their forms and determine the rate of funding. An estimated period, which I can tell you, is 2022 - 2027 - to be completed as a procedure, but this is an early stage.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u172	Thank you. You'll have an opportunity in the back. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Komitova, thank you for your reply. You recall a long story that I know, Russians know, they've followed it all. We are aware that many events have happened along this route, just as we are aware that the route itself is gone. There was a demand for funding, tol system, then procedural obstacles, a program, a second programme. Now I understand that there are still a lot of work left, I understand that research and alienation must be done, and to preserve our cultural heritage, and the audit of road safety, and the oversight of the site, I just want to pay attention to you, through you to the MPs, and to those who will come after you and me here that these years count in human lives. I have asked questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Boyko Rashkov, who I expect next week to give statistics on the number of traffic accidents on this section, the number of victims on it and the wounded on it, so I ask the following: let the time you will be a minister and the political situation in Bulgaria not serve as a pretext and not allow things to be delayed by any day. If the realistic thing you're saying is 2022, let's work so that it really happens, because the Russians have been explained other deadlines before that. And since many of us here have the name for change, let the change begin from there that when a minister says something, it really happens. It's not a whim, it's not just one of the many sections they ask you about, it's that road that can allow Northern Bulgaria to push from the bottom and take a place that has in the country's development. But more importantly, this is a road where accidents happen every day.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u174	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mrs. Komitova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u175	Mr. Zarkov, I don't want to be misunderstood. The realistic thing is to start 2022 and finish 2027. You said 2022. Otherwise, I fully agree with you on how important it is this time, how much things are going to happen there, but even more general, when we look at this situation, we are in a situation where South Bulgaria and Northern Bulgaria are not connected in the North-South direction. In the 21st century, we are connected to the whole world through the Internet and intranet, and we cannot connect the two small parts of the country. This is a conceptual issue, a strategic issue for our country. We cannot tie the two parts of Bulgaria in directions. This also applies to some other vertical connections that we have. I will personally commit myself as soon as possible to moving this procedure, but funding will be expected for the next programming period after approval by the European Commission anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. We move on to the next question by the MP Manol Trifonov Genov regarding the bridge facility over the Maritsa river in the section of Republican road III 667 village Popovitsa Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the problem on which I want up-to-date information on the status of this bridge facility is a kind of chronology of three governments, as I recall, and it is a very regular one that was previously a caretaker government. Since the winter of 2014, I have been urgingly asking about this bridge over the Maritsa River, perhaps twice a year, and I don't remember it anymore, because it was quite a long time ago, considering that this bridge will soon be a century old. A former mayor of the town of Parvomay joked that the German office, which placed the bridge in 1928, sent him a letter in 1991 that it had already expired. I was teasing Mrs. Pavlova as Minister of Regional Development that if we do not take any action, the Germans will come to take him to the museum. What's happened so far? As far as I know, there are alienations, detailed planning... I have information that the Road Infrastructure Agency has chosen a contractor. Unfortunately, however, for all people who are waiting and living in the area, several times from the different tonnage, the carrying of the bridge was taken down as a weight, not to mention the harmful emissions emitted by the cars, of the time that is lost when the transport takes other routes to get there. In the end, I realized that the company sacrificed its guarantees for a good performance and did not start the subject at all. My question is: what will be the solution at the moment by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as the principal of the Road Infrastructure Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u178	Here you are, Mrs. Comitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u179	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Genov, it's a long story. You have started since 2015, and I will start from 2019 the Road Infrastructure Agency is announcing a public contract for the selection of a contractor on this very bridge over the Maritsa River. The order envisions the construction of a new bridge about 230 m long, which will be parallel to the old facility. This is the technical solution. Of course, this is a very important link between the town of Parvomay and the village of Gradina. A contractor has been appointed, which is called the Association of "Hebros 2019" and offers a price of 5 900 million. lv. with VAT to complete this bridge. I want to explain to you that just before this construction order, we're giving 62,000. lv. to do the project on the bridge. Either way, after choosing the performer and perhaps because of the Kovid, I do not know for what reason, the selected contractor refuses to perform the order. He's giving himself up by stating certain reasons. By decision of 29 April 2021, the previous government terminated the contract and, to date, we do not have a signed contract. What are we doing at the Road Infrastructure Agency right now? The documentation for the announcement of a new public procurement is being prepared, as the previous tender has ended, if there is a tender, we have a contractor, we have concluded... and finally he is quitting. It is envisaged and I very much hope that this order will be announced by the end of the year and, accordingly, we will be able to talk about what is going on next. Otherwise, I am deeply convinced how important this relationship is, how difficult the condition of the existing facility is. And you, and I, know that there is a limited movement of motor vehicles over 5 tons due to the inability of the facility to carry the loads. The route Stara Zagora is defined and the route I-8 Sofia is located in Plovdiv, Svilengrad. This order for temporary organisation and traffic safety shall be in force until 30 December this year. Maybe after that it'll be continued.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Comitova. A line? There's no line. This concludes the hearing of the questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Thank you for your participation. We are moving on to a hearing of Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science, who has two questions to answer. The first question is from the MP Tsetska Georgieva Bachkova on the measures to overcome the deficiencies from training in an electronic environment. Mrs. Bachkova, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u181	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Denkov! We have all seen that the Coronavirus pandemic caused the biggest and worst crisis in education on a global scale. Remote training managed to ensure continuity of the educational process, but, unfortunately, failed to ensure the necessary quality of education and that in students and students, in students not to accumulate serious gaps. A number of analyses and studies show that the deficits in the knowledge and skills of students and students are already serious. All attempts to analyze the price of the education crisis caused by the pandemic show that the effects of what is happening at the moment will be felt at a much later stage when these students and students are on the labour market. I will quote a study of two educational economists Eric Hanushek and Lutger Wusman, according to which the long-term effects of the pandemic will result in 3% lower incomes for all students currently between I and XII grade. This means that the gross domestic product of each country will be reduced by 1.5% by the end of the century. In countries where the condition before the pandemic of the educational system was worse, this effect is expected to be even higher. In this regard, I think the question is extremely pressing: how to make up for the gaps in the educational system? In July of this year, the Ministry of Education and Science announced the results of a study on the topic "Training from a distance in an electronic environment 2020 - 2021: consequences and insight ahead." It also provides recommendations for overcoming the accumulated deficits in the educational work, as well as the social, emotional and health condition of the students. In this regard, it is also my question: what specific measures is the Ministry of Education and Science planning to catch up on these accumulated deficits, is there a clear programme and specific measures on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u182	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Denkov. You have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u183	Dear ladies presiding, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject of the matter is somewhat covered by what we discussed on Wednesday. I will try to complement some of the measures that I mentioned at the time, with some other measures that we did not have time to talk about. In the implementation of one of the main priorities of the service team was prepared an analysis of the effects of distance learning in the last two years. In it, we have identified a number of negative consequences for which it has been mentioned, and we have identified measures to overcome them. Of course, the focus is still on how to deal with the coming school year, because new waves of the epidemic await us. One. The main measure is overcoming the deficits of distance learning and providing maximum attendance training. This will allow both to cover the new material and to perform exercises on the material that is not sculpted well enough. For this purpose, the Ministry of Education and Science has developed special training guidelines in pandemic conditions and the document has been sent to the Ministry of Health for coordination. On 24 August this year, his discussion will be held by the Growing Council for Tripartite Cooperation in the Secondary Education System. The mandatory and recommended measures described in the guidelines provide conditions for switching to an electronic environment only in the final case and, above all, on a local basis, a separate class, a separate school, a group of schools in a given region, in accordance with the specific epidemiological situation and specifics of the school. Educational institutions throughout the country will be closed only if absolutely necessary in the dark red area. In this regard, it is extremely important to increase the percentage of both vaccinated teachers and non-pedagogical staff. The Ministry of Education and Science is conducting an active campaign. More than 40 regional meetings have already taken place with the participation of over 85% of the principals of schools and kindergartens. Two. We provide methodical support on several lines for the development of digital competences and confidence in the use of web solutions in training to organize and conduct the learning process in an electronic environment, including exchange of good practices, through the system of innovative schools and several other platforms for the development of online lessons and other e-learning activities. In this regard, we plan to enrich and restructure the National Electronic Library for Teachers, focusing on the more efficient use of the rich resources in it and on sharing innovative teaching methods. The Ministry of Education and Science also supports school libraries and develop them as library information centers that offer an accessible environment with more digital content and adapted texts for children with special educational needs. The caretaker government recently granted 500,000. lv. for libraries and reading locations in 96 schools under the National Program. Three. To overcome educational inequalities, including e-learning, the Ministry considers the role of educational mediators to be extremely important. That is why we have secured the payment of their work by the end of January 2022 with additional European funds under the Project "Support for success". We are also actively working on the more effective implementation of the interinstitutional mechanism, developing and following the timetable, which shows what the role of each of the institutions is. Four. The support of parents is also very important for overcoming the deficits of e-education. Therefore, schools will be stimulated, including financially for active interaction to increase the inner motivation and commitment of students in the educational process with the help of parents. For this purpose, the office approved 500,000. lv. under the National Programme.Participate and change the parent, active partner in school life, who is mostly focused on risk communities and children who are at the greatest risk of dropping out. Five. We provide for special measures to support children and students with special educational needs and individual activities and everything possible within the framework of the budget we have. This group, according to the guidelines, will only go into distance training as a last resort and further individual consultations and therapeutic activities will be provided. Six. In order to provide seamless training in electronic environment, the Ministry of Education and Science will ensure that less than 40,000 devices are insufficient. They've already ordered 15,500 of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u184	Thank you, Mr. Denkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u185	On 13 August 2021, we announced a contract for another 24 500 devices. We also work to ensure that every child has access to the Internet.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u186	Thank you. Mrs. Bachkova, you have the opportunity for two supplementary questions within two minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister Denkov. I am pleased that some of the measures are also aimed at ensuring the functioning of a system in flexible mode between distance and attendance training, because we are living in an extremely insecure world, and as we expect now the next wave of the pandemic, it is possible that in the coming years we are in the same expectation and that we cannot ignore it. In this regard, my question is: do you work long-term on a model to ensure the quality of such a flexible model of training, combining distance learning and attendance training, and especially ensuring quality when the educational system is in remote or distance learning mode? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u188	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u189	Thank you. I'll try to be shorter. Indeed, it is extremely important to combine the immediate measures that must deal with the challenges today and in the coming weeks with a longer-term vision of how electronic means should be developed at all in education in the country. We started discussions on several levels on what the electronic platform for tomorrow's education should look like. There are several options that we are discussing, the main goal of which is to combine available resources that are generally available to teachers, with teachers' qualifications on how to use these resources, including opportunities to evaluate children's work. We are also looking at the possibilities for attracting modules related to individualized training, personalized training of children, which suggests that the teacher can receive support by processing tests using artificial intelligence and technologies that are currently being developed and drilled in the world, but are not yet in Bulgaria. The development of such a project involves deciding in the next few months what the platform will be, after which, using the European funds for development of education in the next period, they are available in the Education Programme for the next period, to make the relevant procurements for the production of the relevant software and, which is no less important, for its connection with existing sources of electronic training resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u190	Thank you, Mr. Denkov. Mrs. Bachkova, you have the opportunity to express your attitude towards the Minister's response within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u191	I will make a very brief appeal and a call to Members of Parliament. The worst damage to the pandemic is the permanent damage to our country's human capital. Therefore, when we are talking about both budget update and next budget and measures to overcome and respond to the pandemic, let us pay enough attention to education, because for each person individually, but also for our society as a whole, education is the most valuable investment that can guarantee a good life and a good future not only to every individual but also to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u192	Thank you. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Ivaylo Peev Staribratov about the formation of the fees at medical universities for students. Here you go, Mr. Staribratov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u193	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Last May very serious student discontents began in Varna and then the previous minister made a decision and asked for a semi-legal reduction or detention of fees, with one reason for being in a pandemic. My question is not so much to reduce fees, but to determine a possible more real coefficient of these fees, as a coefficient of 8.4 is only for medicine. My question is what is the possibility to conclude real contracts with students during their training to have a clear predictability of these fees, not only for medical universities, but the most sensitive topic is with medical universities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u194	Thank you. Mr. Denkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u195	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to this question and in its written form, I present the following information: On your question number one, as set out in the written procedure: is it possible to analyse and set a real coefficient corresponding to the actual cost of training? Fees in the so-called paid form of training shall be determined according to art. 95, para. 4 of the Law on Higher Education, namely the means to support the training of the student, determined according to the maintenance coefficient for the relevant professional direction, shall also be taken into account a comprehensive assessment of the quality of the training and its compliance with the needs of the labour market, which changes every year and depends on the higher school in which the training takes place, and the amount of the annual training fee determined annually by a decision of the Council of Ministers shall be added. The training fee for students admitted for payment shall not be lower than 70% of the determined means of maintenance. By 2018, the maintenance rate of a student for the professional field "Medicina" was 9.4. In 2018, a working group with representatives of the Rectors Council carried out a thorough analysis, resulting in the coefficient being reduced to 8.5, which is considered to correspond to the actual cost of supporting medical training. Following the amendment of the Law in 2020, it is about the Law on Higher Education, the form of the fee includes the funds corresponding to the coefficient of the complex assessment of the quality of the training and its compliance with the needs of the labour market for the relevant year. In other words, this regulatoryly established mechanism implies that the determination of the training fees for students accepted for payment influence the annual changing quality factors that the Ministry of Education has an obligation to publish each year on its website. It should be noted that this quality factor can both increase and decrease. In other words, when reducing this coefficient, the fees for training students accepted in paid form are also reduced. In this way, it is important to emphasise that the total amount of support for training for students adopted under the state-acceptance plan with the support of students accepted in a paid form of training is achieved. Thus, it is not allowed to cover expenditure by state funding to students in paid form of training and vice versa. It is this synchronization of the total amount of funds to support the training of a student, whether accepted under the state-acceptance plan or in a paid form of training, that has led to an increase in the amount of the training fees for medical students, which has caused and the question asked. On your question number two: is it not appropriate for students to conclude clear contracts with the predictability of the amounts paid until the end of their studies? According to Decree of the Council of Ministers No 328 of 2015, the quality factors are determined annually and the Ministry is obliged to publish them on its e-page every year until 15 January. It is clear from this mechanism that under the current legal framework, there is no way in the training contracts concluded between state universities and students to be predictable for the fee for the coming years. When concluding contracts, account should be taken of the variable nature of the components, especially of that factor relating to the quality of training. In the Ministry of Education and Science we will analyze the possibilities for changes in the regulations, this also means changes in the Law on Higher Education, which aim to achieve predictability of the amount of fees for students during their training, as is in some other countries in the European Union. Each student to pay their tuition fees can benefit from the Student Loan Programme, which has been working for many years, has been introduced since 2010. Student loans have a one-year grace period for starting the return of the loan and the repayment period is 10 years after completion of the studies. The amendment of the Law on Higher Education, which entered into February 2020, provided another opportunity to pay for the training of students, their fees, namely from the state budget, to cover the costs of training for students who have concluded a contract with an employer to provide an internship in the relevant specialty for the period of training and at work after its completion. At present, a list of majors and a list of employers who are entitled to enter into contracts under the respective article of the Higher Education Act are established. The list of employers included 154 employers who stated the need for 975 specialists, including 55 public and private hospitals, with a request for contracts with 485 medical professionals from this year. Contracts with employers under the order of art. 95, para. 1 can conclude all students, including students for a fee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u196	Thank you, Mr. Denkov. Mr. Staribratov, an opportunity for a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Not as much a question as it is sufficient to examine a little bit of really these coefficients that correspond to real costs. And the second is ready to assist with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Higher Education Act to be added in such a way that the fees are indeed predictable, however, not all students can receive loans in paid training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u198	Thank you. I take it you won't express your attitude, Mr. Staribratov? Yes, thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to clarify something? No. Thank you. And we're done with this item on the agenda. Let's thank the Minister of Education and Science for the answers. We move on to the next item on the agenda of Mr. Velislav Minekov, Minister of Culture, will answer a question from the National Representative Alexandra Krasimirova Sterkova concerning the Museum of Renaissance and Assembly in Veliko Tarnovo. Here you go, Mrs. Sterkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u199	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! At the opening of the 45th National Assembly, Hristo Ivanov said: "Parliamentaryism consists of both lime and bricks, because it is in them that very often contains our history. Today I present to your attention a story very close to this building of the Constitutional Assembly of the Third Bulgarian State. The preservation of cultural and historical heritage and buildings of cultural value, in fact, and our culture as a whole, unfortunately, have not been the priority of the last governments. Over the years, we have seen a huge number of butaphorical restorations of real cultural values that cripple and degenerate the original vision and spirit. On 25 June this year was published a public contract with the subject of the implementation of construction works of the site, reconstruction and renovation of the museum "Renaissance and founding assembly." The documentation shall provide for the restrictions under the Cultural Heritage Act, or its applicability at all, on either the first or the second order. The whole procedure is awarded in both orders and has already been completed in its first part as a standard project for an ordinary building which does not have a special value for citizens outside of it. It should be noted here that, after all, the investment project went through coordination at the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage in 2015 quite formally, judging by the assignment and the documentation available. Impression, however, makes the fact that the building is a real cultural value of national importance according to a letter of co-ordination of NIKN, and according to a public municipal property act it is of local importance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u200	Mrs. Sterkova, finish up, your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u201	With regard to the information thus presented, Minister, I have asked you questions about the status of the museum building..Renaissance and the Founding Assembly............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u202	Thank you. Minister Minekov, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u203	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sterkova, in relation to your question, I inform you of the following: The building of the museum "Renaissance" and the Founding Assembly "St. Veliko Tarnovo," has the status of architectural building historical real estate property with the category "Local importance." As regards compliance with the requirements of the Cultural Heritage Act, it has been established that several conciliation opinions have been issued on the basis of art. 84, para. 1 and para. 2 in relation to Art. 83 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The process of coordination of investment projects before NIKN shall include: examination of an application submitted to the Minister of Culture through NIKN on a template; issue of a written opinion within two months of the date of receipt of the application under art. 84, para. 2 of the CCN by the Director of NINK with attached design documentations. The written opinions shall be sent to the NINKN at the Ministry of Culture within three days of the end of the second week from the date of submission of the application. NIKN's opinion shall be taken into the proceedings of the Ministry of Culture and the attached design documentation shall be transmitted by inventory to officials authorised by the Minister. Officials shall prepare opinions under art. 84, para. 1 of the CCN for signature by the Minister of Culture. An opinion shall be agreed in accordance with the instructions for the Ministry of Culture's document-turning and shall be submitted for signature to the Minister of Culture within four months from the date of receipt of the application. 1 in NIRCN. After signing the opinion and removing it from the Office of the Ministry of Culture, authorised officials shall carry out a stamp on graphical materials. The written opinion shall be communicated to the applicant by the officials of the General Administration of NIKN, Department of Devoding. An on-the-spot check will also be carried out in relation to the issues raised by the Directorate General for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. In the National Documentary Archive of NIKN is kept a file of real estate cultural value, which contains a passport of the site, historical reference, situation, photo documentation, files for its preservation, and the following design documentation: Two thousand and twenty years with the opinion of the Minister of Culture, exit number, is a concerted visa and technical investment project for a ramp for disadvantaged people to provide an approach to the museum. Two thousand and fifteenth year with the opinion of the Minister of Culture is a agreed investment project for the site square. Two thousand and fifteen years with the opinion of the Minister of Culture is a concerted visa for research and design investment site for site reconstruction and implementation of measures for energy efficiency, providing an accessible environment, reconstruction and repair activities of the administrative building museum
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u204	Mr. Minekov, get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u205	Actually, it's been going on since 1978.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u206	You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u207	Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you very much to the Minister of Culture for the answer. I hope that the Ministry of Culture will make the necessary efforts to ensure that any interference in the Constitutional Assembly will be legal. Dear colleagues, the fact is that there is a problem with the Institute for Real Cultural Heritage and it does not matter whether this is a deliberately created problem or a lack of interest, but it leads to severe consequences for the whole society. The registrations that NIKN is obliged to lead are often incomplete or missing at all. Cultural and historical heritage should be preserved for generations after us and the development of culture as a whole should be supported, encouraged and placed as a priority. We must protect the spirit and cultural achievements left in our inheritance and, in turn, leave those behind. This is really patriotic, this is Bulgarian. [[Noise and lines.]] Because, honourable Members, I am glad that you are listening to me, culture is a value. Period! And we, as MPs, are called upon to defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Sterkova. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u209	Mrs. Sterkova, you are very well aware of the situation at the Institute. In recent years, the Institute has been systematically destroyed, crushed, moved from property to property, with a messy administration, with an archive moved from a box to a box, and in my opinion it was not unconscious. That was on purpose! To tell you what the goal was was corruption, not saving the monuments of culture. This corruption has already been stopped. The Institute will work in a new way, we know where and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u210	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. There is a question addressed to Minister Minekov by the National Representative Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov concerning the functioning of a public register of media service providers and measures in the fight against false news. Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u211	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Minekov, first of all I would like to make the clarification that it is very possible to be blamed in conflict of interest and therefore I will announce one as Chairman of the Board of the Association of Regional Media in Bulgaria, as well as a real owner within the meaning of the Law of a publishing company. I believe that my question is in sync with all the honourable fellow publishers for whom publishing has long been not a business but a social mission. We live in a time when false news emerges as public enemy number one, and if social media is the field, then false news is the main instrument of hybrid wars. I don't think it would be too much to say that with the false news, other than the destruction of human destinies, people are already being killed. We are witnessing in social media uncontrollable trade with influence, dirt and suggestion. Conventional or traditional media are forced to carry out their activities in a fragmented, highly contaminated environment filled with many unfair practices. At the same time, reporters of these publications are on line one in the fight against false news. In the context of a climate, large regions such as Varna and Shumen were left without their periodicals. And while hypocritically speculating on freedom of speech, serious author's journalism is about to disappear completely from the media environment, I say it concerned, with the experience of a man with 25 years of public communication and journalism. In the online space, anonymous information addresses continue to swarm and flood us with disinformation and false news. From their official pages, however, it is difficult to determine who exercises editorial policy and which economic entity is behind the media. The amendments to the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed and other works set out the establishment of a public register of providers and distributors of media services to the Ministry of Culture. This is undoubtedly one of the measures aimed at creating a sustainable and working regulation in the media sector
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u212	Mr. Nikolov, navigate to completion!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u213	Mr. Minister, I demand to receive the information on how many cases have been identified in which media service providers have not submitted or submitted their declarations incorrectly to the Ministry of Culture, are not listed in the public register and what actions have been taken by you because freedom of speech is undoubtedly a value, but freedom of speech also requires responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u214	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, regarding your question, I inform you of the following: with a change in the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed and other works and for the announcement of distributors and media service providers from 2018, media service providers were introduced to announce their ownership and financing annually. In their declarations, the media shall also indicate all contracts concluded with state and local authorities as well as with other contracting entities detailed in the Law. The aim of the legislator was to reach the disclosure of the actual owners of the information platforms with a view to their impact on the public. The other objective has already been achieved with transparency in the media market and minimise the possibility of manipulating public opinion thanks to free corporate or other funding. On the specific question set out concerning established infringements relating to non-reporting, I inform you that 44 inspections were carried out in 2020 and 23 administrative infringement cases were successfully awarded. The deadline for submitting the annual declarations for 2021 expired on 30 June and a control campaign is to be carried out, while working on received specific signals with information about media service providers not present in the public register of the Ministry of Culture. I would like to point out that, as regards the acceptance of the declarations of media service providers, the Ministry of Culture acts as a depositary for the declarations submitted with an obligation to disclose them in a public register. Within the meaning of the Law, a declaration which does not contain the information referred to in the Law shall be deemed not to have been submitted. In addition to the acceptance and disclosure of the declarations, the Ministry of Culture also carries out administrative punishment against media service providers who have failed to fulfil their obligation to declare the circumstances mentioned in the Law. In cases where the intruder cannot be identified, the Law provided for an opportunity to seek assistance from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Such assistance has been sought in most inquiries related to online news releases. In the context of online news publications and online platforms where news and other information content are distributed, I would like to draw attention to the topic of disinformation and fake new and its increasing complexity due to the diversification of participants and the rapid development of new technologies. These are serious challenges facing not only Bulgarian citizens and democratic processes, but the whole world, especially in the current situation of a horse pandemic. The fight against misinformation and false news has been particularly active in recent years, with constant measures being developed at both global and European level. Its key players are media service providers and news content, which should provide reliable content and quality journalism. Of course, the role of the state is important for the various legislative political initiatives to combat disinformation. In a coherent, timely, complementary and uniform manner at European Union level, respecting the sovereignty of the Member States and avoiding fragmentation of policy and legislation in duplication of action, should be addressed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u216	Mr. Minister, you may proceed to completion!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u217	I am glad that the issue of media independence was part of today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u218	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u219	I'm partially satisfied with the answer, Mr. Minister. I will draw your attention to really focusing on combating anonymous sources rather than disinformation, not to fix yourself as much on established and reliable media, such as Bulgarian national television or the "Trud" newspaper, because it is high time to close the factory for fake news and fake heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u220	Thank you very much. For the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u221	Mr. Nikolov, thank you. I can promise you that false news will be hunted absolutely everywhere, no matter where. Another is the problem: what is false news? We don't know yet. Neither the European Commission has given a sufficiently good definition of this. Please search the definition and declare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u222	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. There were three questions with the same subject. Out of the three questions one of them is withdrawn from the National Representative Anna Vasileva Alexandrova. The other two questions are from Dimitar Andreev Delchev and Manol Trifonov Genov. Dear Mr. Delchev, if you'd like to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u223	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor, Minister Minekov, media publications came out on August 12th, according to which the Ministry of Culture terminated the leases with the newspaper "Trud" and as the publications said: "Gi is chasing from the building in which they are housed." Some of the following reactions, including political parties, accuse the Ministry of Culture and its leadership of inappropriate and illegal actions aimed at aggravating the newspaper because of its editorial policy. And since many things have been spoken in the period of 12 August so far, and the truth somehow remained hanging in the air, and remained unclear to the general public, so I ask the following question: what hired or other contractual relations exist between the Ministry of Culture and the newspaper "Trud" and since when do they date; has the Ministry of Culture accepted an initiative to terminate the lease contract with the newspaper "Trud" or related persons; for what reasons and on what grounds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u224	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Since the answer is common, Minister, I will also give the floor to the MP Manol Trifonov Genov to develop his question so that you can answer both at the same time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, a week ago, actions by the Ministry of Culture on the occasion of the termination of a tenant's contractual relationship to your entrusted office provoked quite a public interest, especially after the public position of the media publisher, which referred to as a victim, the publication of the newspaper "Trud". This was an offence against freedom of speech and even against a member of the publisher's family. In a similar spirit from the parliamentary tribune there was also a declaration from the former rulers. Subsequently, facts came out that showed that the truth was quite far away from what was stated in the declaration and from all those declarations that came out in the public domain. In the name of correctness and public interest, for the full clarification of the case, I ask you the following parliamentary question: what are the reasons for termination of the contract in question? Is its owner as a tenant the victim of the above-mentioned media publisher, or is there data other than those? How has the amount of monthly rent been determined and corresponded with similar ones in this area of Sofia? Are there some written reasons why the tenant company has allowed itself a serious accumulation of duties to the Ministry of Culture and do you have no doubt that such types of contracts are gifts, so to say, to certain political forces for the operation of media services by such tenants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u226	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer both questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u227	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Delchev, Dear Mr. Genov! I allow myself to reconcile the answers of the two Members of Parliament already mentioned, because their questions are almost the same, largely similar, close in meaningful terms. It is about matter which affects the contractual relations of the Ministry of Culture and the company South Cross 2001, and the prehistory which led to the termination of the contractual relations with it. I would like to stress that this purely legal and legal case is being tried to push it into the flow of false news, pseudo-plays with freedom of speech, the destruction of media and other repressive actions. The facts. The Ministry of Culture is one of the institutions to which the sum of 133 thousand is due. BGN 108,82. This is not all about consumables, which have been accumulated for the period 2015 - 2018, the outstanding amount of 16 thousand should also be added to it. 341,77 leva. for June, July and August this year, or a total of 149 thousand. 450,59 BGN. The problems with the company and the finding that it is an incorrect payer date back to 2015, with calls for voluntary implementation to it by the ministers Rashidov in 2016, Rashko Mladenov I pay attention to the audience and stress that this is about the company "South Cross 2001" and the Ministry of Culture does not have any contractual relations with the newspaper "Trud." The contracts with the Southern Cross 2001. The contracts with the Southern Cross are two: RD-11 -14, signed on 12 March 2012 for a period of 10 years and RD-11-002-16, signed on 9 October 2015 for a period of 10 years as well. I should add to this the fact that at the address of the premises occupied by the South Cross 2001 In both contracts, the tenant of the company "South Cross 2001" is obliged not to lease under a joint operation contract or in any other way the use of the provided sites. In this separate, absolutely self-sufficient basis for termination of contractual relations, there is no causal link in this situation between the pretentious complaints about limiting the freedom of speech of the newspaper "Trud" and its editorial policy and the legal actions of the Ministry of Culture. In order to reduce the hysterical taste of the crypts given by Mr. Blaskov, I will add a few white touches on the condition of the company in question. The company is the owner of the corporation "Bulgarian real estate" "Corporate" Ltd. and there are imposed supports in favour of seven other companies: "Competition "Meridian" Ltd., "Monitor" Ltd., "Politika Today "Press Market" Ltd.; "Press Traffic" Ltd., "Telegraph Media" Ltd., "The latter is in liquidation." After this pile-up of accumulated debts, the company maintains a cafe for which a luxury car has been parked 24/7, the number of which in recent years has grown to 12, which cozyly housed there, using the parking lot and the ministry's security. As for the envy of looking at the other floors of the building, which are being repaired for the needs of the Ministry of Culture, it is undoubtedly the result of that reflex associated with the incompressible thirst to master new objects. All this chaos of false news and allegations spread by the newspaper "Trud" should be answered as follows: The Ministry of Culture protects the public interest in the field of real cultural heritage. The building, designed for the National Institute of Real Estate Cultural Heritage, is necessary for the effective work of its collaborators. There is expensive equipment here and more expensive equipment will be delivered. The building should contain the most important of the archive. The memory of the Bulgarian culture, which contains more than 30 thousand archived and documented objects. This is information that is unique, and for not a few monuments in this sense only the provision of this protection makes the presence of companies or institutions whose business is of a completely different nature incompatible. The implementation of a specific cultural policy related to the preservation of the memory of the nation is part of the Ministry's programme, and the fact that the company This also defines the firm position of the Ministry of Culture on this issue. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u228	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. Mr. Delchev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u229	Minister Minekov, thank you for the answer that was comprehensive and correct based on the questions we asked. We've heard a lot of facts, a lot of data. We also heard the fact that one firm rents the space and has contractual relations with the Ministry of Culture, and it turns out that another uses the relevant premises. In this regard, I wanted to know whether you deliberately made this firm the other company, another question on what grounds does it use these premises to get out of there? Is this related to their editorial policy in any way? As well as the related question: how does the Ministry of Culture actually protect the public interest and, in particular, the interest of the Ministry of Culture, other than that there are large amounts of more than 140 thousand. BGN, which are due, are not paid and there are no prospects to be paid. Do you have any idea how to collect these amounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u230	Thank you. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u231	Mr. Delchev, you're a lawyer, I'll explain things to you the way people like me who aren't lawyers understand them. Imagine for a moment that I give you my apartment, which is not far from here, rented with a contract without the right to hand it over. The rent should be 1000 BGN, but since you are a lawyer to whom I can rely, since you are part of the National Assembly, I will give it to you for only 100 BGN. instead of a thousand. After that, however, things happen that are inexplicable. You invite a distant relative to your apartment. He arrives at the apartment not alone, but together, let's say, with his domestic animals. The balcony accommodates chickens, cocks, turkeys; inside the apartment is his donkey, his dairy sheep. On top of that, I have to guard them for free so they don't become the sheep of a kurban. Not only that, but you don't pay those 100 levs, you don't pay your electricity, you don't pay your water, you don't pay your heating. At this moment, when I tell you that you must leave, you rise up and say, "Minekov hates the animals." He forbids chickens, cocks and turkeys to sing, he forbids the donkey to roar and the sheep to shine. [[Applause, cheering]] [[Loud applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u232	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. You cheered up the hall. Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u233	Dear colleagues! Mr. Minekov, I am extremely pleased that you have defended the state interest. But I asked you something else.. Doesn't this waiting bother you, not paying off this money, that it was consciously organized, consciously conducted because we know that this media, from which came the biggest howl, it is, how can I say, an organ of a political party, almost because with its media editorial policy it is experienced in this way? And the fact that you kept the law, that under the State Property Act, even a municipal one, no tenant has the right to give up. I also asked you a question about similar prices in the area. The answer to your apartment was extremely comprehensive because I saw about 10 times the difference in the example you give. I don't believe it was like this with everyone else, but this is an eloquent enough example of what happened, why it happened, so I congratulate you and support your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u234	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Minister Minekov, do you have a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u235	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I want to assure you that I will protect the rights of the Ministry, regardless of who has settled in, regardless of who has sought parliamentary services and how he has done it. And the other thing I will promise you, Mr. Delchev, Mrs. Sterkova, I will do my best to make sure that the Institute of Real Estate Cultural Heritage does its job. I promise you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u236	Thank you. With this, the questions to Minister Minekov are exhausted. We still have 12 minutes till 2:00. There has been a question from the National Representative Albena Simeonova Varbanova to the Minister of Service for Environment and Waters Asen Litchev on the main renewal of the existing infrastructure. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u237	Thank you. Dear Minister, honourable President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am a representative of Dobrudja and the infamous area and one of the favorite beaches in Bulgaria. In this regard, it is also my question. In 2017, on a proposal from the municipality of Kavarna, a procedure was initiated under the Law on Protected Areas for a change in the border of the reserve. As a result of the procedure carried out by the respective order of the Minister of Environment and Water, the area of this reserve was reduced and the area of the protected area was increased accordingly. This is the municipality of Kavarna, Dobrich district. The area of the reserve is reduced by the exclusion of properties representing the sand strip in the town of Bolata. The road and the storms of coastal facilities, asphalt parking, which are included in the border of the protected area of Stepite. There was also a subsequent proposal from the municipality of Kavarna, on the basis of which a procedure was launched to increase the area of the reserve "Kaliakra" and as a result the respective order of the Minister of Environment and Water was issued. However, according to the current regulations and, in particular, the Law on Protected Areas, when announcing a national park or reserve and respectively when changing their areas for the purpose of the Minister of Environment and Water, the Council of Ministers should submit to the National Assembly a draft law amending and supplementing this law. Under this provision, the order to declare the national park or reserve, respectively, changes in their areas, shall enter into force after the adoption of the law. In 2019 a public consultation procedure was opened for this draft decision of the Council of Ministers to approve the draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Protected Areas. The main objective of this bill is to regulatoryly recognise and specify in special legislation the acts for change in the borders and areas of the reserve.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u238	Mrs. Varbanova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u239	I'll be done in a minute. However, this, unfortunately, did not happen. At the same time, not a few times in the last two years, the local community has signalled to all responsible institutions that the Bay of Bolata is threatened with destruction, because the protective coastal facilities which are subject to the exclusion, or these storms, are in a miserable state, and every winter they suffer further damage from the sea storms. That's why they haven't been repaired in decades. There is a danger of being destroyed, which will, however, put at risk the flooding of the beach, which will in turn cause danger to the water supply zone from which the residents of the villages of Bulgaria, St. Nikola and the complex "Russalka" draw water for drinking needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u240	Time's up, Mrs. Varbanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u241	In the event of flooding you will have to look for options for water purification... Wait, I'm done, two sentences. ...or to provide alternative water supply to settlements. There is a risk of the destruction of the area, the relevant economic and environmental losses and the danger of social problems in failure to take action by the state authorities and the procedure of this law. The local road, which leads to the unique area, is also in a miserable state and also needs urgent repair.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u242	Mrs. Varbanova, three and a half minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u243	I would like to ask you, because this has not happened, what action will the MOEW take to restore the storms so that they do not create a danger that the Bay of Bolata will be destroyed and the water supply zone of the villages of Bulgaria, St. Nicholas and the complex of Roussalka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u244	Thank you. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer. You've got three minutes, and then two more for the back if you have one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u245	Mrs. President, Mrs. Varbanova, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I will continue Mr. Minekov's mood and say that even my wife has not waited as long as the opportunity to start answering you. And I pulled the short straw again because I'm only gonna be able to do one and a half questions, so I'm gonna take the short procedure. You asked the question yourself and answered it yourself. I must say, this problem began in 2000 when art. 1 of the Constitution and the so-called enterprise that takes care of the brig defence facilities disappears as state care. Since then, the bumps have been getting sloppy. Then, under the pretext of being on the border of a protected reserve where this activity is prohibited, they cannot be formally carried out. For this reason you answered the question yourself, I immediately answer what has been done. On 26 February 2021, Decision No 174 of the Council of Ministers amended the Law on Protected Areas, requiring the Minister's order to be legitimized. This law was passed at first reading and ended, so now it is coming again. I have made a letter to Prime Minister Yanev the laws that have been imported into the previous National Assembly and have not been seen to watch them you. When you vote on them, it will already be possible to repair the storms, to prevent the danger of flooding the water systems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u246	Thank you. Mrs. Varbanova, come in for a line. If you can fit in within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u247	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. In less time, I'll fit in. As I told you, I am a representative of Dobrudja. You understand the importance of repairing these bumps to preserve this unique place. But at all on the Northern Black Sea coast, this is a very serious problem. The problem is not only that cars park on dunes. As you have seen, this with full force applies to the Northern Black Sea coast, and there should be thought of some serious rules to prevent this thing from happening, and at the same time, wild camping exists. Attention should be paid to a comprehensive strategy for coastal facilities and preservation of these wonderful beaches on the Black Sea because it is a shame Bulgaria to have 400 km of beaches and all of us to go to a beach in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u248	Thank you. Do you have an asshole, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u249	Thank you very much, my dear lady. You're absolutely right. It is not only about the brigification of the Black Sea, it is also about the protection against harmful effects of water on rivers. So far, the state has not taken this as a care of the public interest and somewhere stands in the back pocket. There used to be a state-owned enterprise, which may still exist, you must know it, which takes care of the landslides on the Black Sea and the coastal facilities. I don't know what state he's in. With regard to the protection against harmful effects of water, in the internal rivers is the same, there is one semi-pregnant company "Irrigation systems" on which half of the part is dominated by the state and the other part of the commercial activity, and in practice none of the two objectives are obtained. There has to be a strategy. I think there is a strategy, but that, unfortunately, is not to my ministry, but rather to the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u250	Thank you. We have little time left for the second question of all nine, with one correction regarding the questions to Minister Minekov. The question of Anna Alexandrova has not been withdrawn, but has been postponed. Mrs. Maya Manolova, your question to Minister Litchev is about the refusal of the Executive Environment Agency to allow a derogation under the indicator of nitrogen oxides of the Sofia Toplofication EAD. I'm gonna have to ask you to step into the minutes. With a few minutes we can extend in connection with the statement read.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u251	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Lichev, honourable colleagues! On 22 July, the Environment Executive Agency took a decision refusing to grant Sofia a derogation for compliance with the emission limit values of nitrogen dioxides. Later, on 2 August, this decision of the Executive Environment Agency was officially announced and communicated to citizens. We are talking about the largest heat pump not only in Bulgaria, but also on the Balkan Peninsula, which provides heating of over 400 thousand households and numerous public buildings.. These are kindergartens, hospitals, schools, state and municipal institutions, and many other non-bit consumers of heat. In my previous ombudsman capacity, as president of a civil platform and from the platform of the National Assembly, I have raised questions criticising the work of the Sofia Municipality and its attitude towards consumers, especially to the domestic consumers, but there is no way, given this decision of the Executive Agency, not to express the concern of those citizens who have understood this decision and to ask you the following questions: It is clear and is described in the reasons of the Decision that a derogation is refused because it has already been granted and within a four-year period, the Heat Efficiency has failed to meet the requirements, but if the Company stops working, the expectation is from 1 January next year, we are all aware of how this will affect the energy system, on the one hand, and on the other hand, and of the people's electricity bills. energy...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u252	Form the question, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u253	...assuming they're going to heat up on one in Sofia, there's no other option. And most of all, do consumers know to rush to buy electric stoves, because most likely they will end up in front of a similar threat?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u254	Dear Minister, please come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Dear Mrs. Manolova, you are asking me a question on which a whole plenary session could be spoken. However, I have only three minutes and I will tell you this: I am the Minister of Environment and Water. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, I make sure that every citizen is provided with a favourable environment and minimal risk to his health. What is happening today and is becoming a drama I am sorry that you are not participating in this, I hope, is actually born in 2018, because since 2017, there have been new requirements of the European Directive regarding nitrogen oxides. "Toplofication Sofia" which is known to everyone, and perhaps the viewers themselves do not know that it is municipal, is not it, if I am mistaken. So these issues today need to be referred to the owner of this heat pump. Since 2018, they have had to make the necessary investments to enter the nitrogen oxides standards, which are a marker in the air penalty procedure for which we pay huge amounts for fine particulate matter. I can't do anything, it's all in the hands of the management of Heat Efficiency because it takes minimal effort to find investments to repair and repair the gas disposal facilities and filters so that they can get into European norms. More than that. It is very shameful the capital city, Plovdiv, come on for Vidin, we say that it is acceptable because there is no central heating and there is no branch of the Turkish gas stream so that there can be alternative energy source, with the dirtiest air. I'm a native of Sofia, except that I'm a minister of the service, and I can't let that happen. So it's all in the hands of the management of the heating industry in Sofia and its owner.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u256	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Manolova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u257	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I fully understand the situation that you are in. Naturally, you are obliged, as Minister of the Environment, as well as the Chairman of the Executive Agency, to comply with the rules and to ensure the constitutional right of citizens to live in a favourable environment. I have repeatedly and as a former Ombudsman, been behind the protests and the demands of the citizens for fresh air. The fact is that we are in a penal procedure, the fact is that we are already paying heavy sanctions for air quality. At the same time, I am concerned that heating, which from 1 January will receive nearly 20% higher steam bills, because this is the decision of the KEWRC, has raised the prices of heating as of 1 January. At the same time, the control over the work of this company was neither by the Sofia Municipal Council nor by the KEWRC at the necessary level. More than that. "Toplofication Sofia" will make an additional contribution to the dirty air because of the construction of a garbage burning installation literally in the center of Sofia, 2 km away. We have repeatedly protested against Moskovska, against which the Civic Platform from. I myself am a lawyer in the case of civil organisations against the EIA Report, so the situation is more than complicated. On the one hand, the price of the heating goes up, people pay more and more, on the other, no measures are taken for the installations concerned to provide fresh air. On the other hand, additional investments of 300 million are being poured out from a third party. lv. to another object that will further contaminate the air.. 9 tons of fine particulates on an annual basis will produce only the Garbage Factory. In this whole situation, a solution should be sought and the solution is through strict requirements of the KEWR to Heat Efficiency.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u258	Mrs. Manolova, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u259	We're still dealing with the price of electricity today. Heat efficiency has received additional money from the Energy System Security Fund...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u260	The weather, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u261	...absolutely in violation of the rules. Indeed, here the solution is a complete revision of the heat efficiency and energy companies to see the truth about what is happening there.. pouring huge money, people pay huge bills and in the end we all breathe poisonous air.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Mr. Lichev. You have two minutes for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u263	I'm gonna skip the address so I can have more time. I regret that I have come at such a historic moment, but on 17 August this year the deadline for meeting these requirements expires by the European Commission. I'm facing a done fact, and I can't help but do that. From another point of view, you stepped on me because you yourself said the reason: from 2018, 2019, 2020 constantly increases the price of the steam, respectively and electricity, which includes the revenues that go to the TPPs in Sofia. Where were the investments for the treatment facilities? How did the KEWRC not know because the KEWRC, apart from the amount it cares about and the quality of the service, how did it not know what conditions they had to meet? This is similar to the water operators. And the owner, the regulatory authorities and, above all, the management of the systems themselves must immediately find urgent solutions, and technically they are possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-20.u264	Thank you, Minister Lichev. Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary control time is up. Next meeting on Wednesday, 25 August 2021, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
