ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional item - Draft Decision on amendment and supplement of the National Assembly Decision on dealing with the price crisis of electricity adopted yesterday, on 15 December 2021. Importers of the Project with yesterday date are a group of MPs. I propose that this be the first item in the plenary agenda today - 16 December 2021, with the remaining points being renumbered accordingly. Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, we do not, in principle, object to the consideration of this item on the agenda of today's plenary session, but, Mr President, this draft decision is neither uploaded to the National Assembly's website nor distributed to the Members of the National Assembly. I therefore propose that, until the administration of the National Assembly has technically managed, we move on to the regular agenda and that this item be the second item for today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u3	Mrs. Atanasova, I'm sure it's uploaded. [[(Reply from MP Desislava Atanasova:]] Was it sent to the e-mails yesterday? I'm being informed that he was sent to the post office yesterday. [[(Reply from MP Desislava Atanasova:]] Please vote on the inclusion of the item on the agenda, then we will vote on Mrs. Atanasova's proposal to be as item two today. We are voting for or against inclusion on the agenda for today. Vote 207 MPs: 200 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I would now like to vote on Mrs. Atanasova's proposal to be the second point for today. They voted 210 MPs: 66, against 100, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. The item remains first for today's agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that the point related to the moratorium be broadcast on BNT and BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u5	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Please proceed to the vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Toma Bikov. They voted 213 MPs: for 101, against 66, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u6	Yeah. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't know why you're so uncomfortable with this thing being on TV! So there won't be speculation! Because yesterday there were all kinds of interpretations here about what happened, what didn't happen. Parliament's website is constantly jamming, and you can't hear what they're saying. [[(Replyes:]] It's not broadcast on BNT 2 automatically! If you want, at least on BNT 2, but in my opinion, BNT 1 and BNR...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u8	I suggest you reschedule, otherwise you want to do some work here just like that. It's about transparency, isn't it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u9	Okay. Thank you. Revoting, coworkers. Vote 217 MPs: 103, against 68, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Message: On 15 December 2021 the National Assembly received a request from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Ivan Geshev for permission to continue the criminal proceedings against the People's Representative Dimitar Ivanov in a criminal case of a general nature according to the description of the Specialized Criminal Court, formed under an indictment of 15 April 2019 by the Special Prosecutor's Office of Prosecutor's Office No 910 of 2018 on the description of the Special Prosecutor's Office for Crime under art. 304b, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 26, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 20, para. 2 of the Penal Code. By letter dated 15 December 2021, the President of the National Assembly informed the National Assembly of the request and the opportunity to familiarise himself with the attached materials. On the same date with written consent, the People's Representative Dimitar Ivanov informed the President of the National Assembly that he agreed to continue the criminal proceedings at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter, the President of the National Assembly has notified the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Assembly and a certified copy of the consent has been attached. We move on to item one of today's plenary agenda: PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION AND COMPLIANCE OF A DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION TO COLLECTION WITH THE PRICE CRISIS OF ELECTRICITY, AS REFERRED TO IN 15 DECEMBER 2021 DECEMBER 2021 There's a draft decision deposited, the Quaestors are handing it out. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Mr. Ghurov, you're welcome to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, The draft decision reads: Project! DECISION amending and supplementing the Decision of the National Assembly on dealing with the price crisis of electricity adopted on 15 December 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED A decision of the National Assembly to address the price crisis of electricity adopted on 15 December 2021 shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. So far, text becomes t. 1 and amended as follows: The National Assembly imposes a moratorium on the price of electricity, water services and heat on a regulated market at the levels of 16 December 2021. 2. A t is created. 2 by the following text: The decision shall be valid until 31 March 2022. 3. A t is created. The decision shall enter into force on the day of the promulgation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The initial idea of the decision, which GERB-SDS proposed yesterday and the majority supported, was to maintain the current prices for electricity, water services, heat for domestic consumers and thus avoid the increase of prices announced by the KEWR as of 1 January 2022. However, it was formally stated in the Decision that the price freeze was carried out in relation to the values of 1 January 2021. It was not noted that new prices for electricity, water services, heat for domestic consumers other than those of 1 January 2021 were in force from July 2021, respectively higher than those of them. If we leave the Decision in the version that was adopted yesterday, December 15th, then we risk creating a dangerous legal precedent, because this can de facto be interpreted even as an attempt to amend the prices of services with a retroactive date That is why we believe that the decision to deal with the price crisis, which the GERB-SDS group has proposed and the majority supported, should be amended by saying that prices for domestic consumers are frozen against current levels today, compared to today, and the moratorium should act until 31 March 2022. Because, colleagues, this will give calm to domestic consumers during the winter period, and all affected countries will have sufficient time to prepare if the KEWRC decides to review regulated prices at a future time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Are there lines? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On this proposal, I would like to propose a point. 2 the period of validity is not until 31 March 2022, but until 30 April 2022. My reasons are that if, let's say, for most parts of the country, especially for the lowlands and plains, April is relatively warm and heating costs are significantly smaller, for regions such as Smolyan, where people are currently in distress, April is not so springy and so warm. The average temperature for example for Chepelare for April is almost the same as the average temperature for Plovdiv for March. For this reason, the period of validity of the present Decision is set out in the Annex to this Decision. 2 to be by 30 April 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Fisherman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The draft decision amending and supplementing the National Assembly's Decision on dealing with the price crisis of electricity adopted on 15 December 2021 also addresses a shock price rise conducted in an extremely short public consultation and without the possibility of planning such an appreciation by Bulgarian households. The suspension of such uploads within a reasonable and proportionate period, as provided for in this Decision by 31 March 2022, will ensure a calmer course of the winter months in which the prices of electricity and heat are highest, and will enable the Bulgarian households to deal with the severe social conditions in which the country is located. In this situation, the interests of energy companies should be balanced against the interests of end-users. Otherwise, such a shock increase is able to create and deepen the social crisis and to lead many households to the edge of poverty and to the inability to pay electricity and heat. The proposed draft decision of the National Assembly is limited in time in order to achieve the proportionality of state intervention. The proposed deadline is reasonable and relates to the expiry of a certain period until 31 March 2022, thereby ensuring that the KEWRC, stakeholders and all institutions and citizens will have sufficient time to discuss and take account of the possible decision. Next, end-users will have sufficient time to prepare for the consequences of changing regulated prices. As a national regulatory authority, KEWRC regulates prices in accordance with the regulations and current market conditions. The Commission's main priority is to protect the interests of consumers and to prevent abuse of a dominant position, taking into account the interests of energy companies, subject to the requirements for economic justification of the prices of services and for reimbursement of costs in compliance with all the data provided and protection of the legal rights and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Therefore, the National Assembly is in the position to ensure the preservation of the provisions of art. 31b, para. 1 of the Energy Act maximum protection of the interests of final customers, based on the context of the market situation in the country. Such an approach of the National Assembly is fully justified by the principle of a social state enshrined in the preamble to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. Are there any lines? Yes, Zhecho Stankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ribarski, I am concerned with the additional motives you have read, which we did not hear when reading the Bill. Indeed, you're right about everything you say. However, the question is as follows: in relation to your speech, the date 31 March 2021 below has been mentioned, careful consideration should be given to what the Member of the Revival said exactly the specific date by which the moratorium should act. Considering that in the coastal regions of Varna, Burgas, Dobrich has a large impact at least until the end of May, when serious revenues in the region begin, I think that the date 31 March should be carefully reconsidered. My more specific question to you in my reply is as follows: what price of energy and all services related to electricity distribution companies will be lower than that of 1 January 2021 or the one you offer on 16 December 2021?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Another line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stankov, the proposal for March 31st...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u21	It's not for me!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u22	Yes, the line is for Mr. Ribarsky. That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u23	Fine, I'll turn to Mr. Ribarsky. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u24	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u25	To confirm our thesis on the proposal 31 March 2022. The idea is to have time to introduce other concrete measures, not to comply with the climate features of all settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Is there another line? A hole from Mr. Ribarsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u27	Thank you for asking Mr. Stankov. The purpose of the time period is not to really comply with climate conditions and to guess if energy will be cheaper. We do not want to take into account the price policies of KEWRC, it is simply the idea to give a reasonable period of time to all interested parties to prepare, address their concerns about the prices affected by the KEWRC's decision and to... [[Relations of MP Daniel Mitov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u28	Not from a place, not from a place!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u29	And this to be discussed in committees and to go towards a real proposal for some solutions for overall dealing with the situation with electricity prices in Bulgaria. But we do not want to speculate about prices and give repers for prices and dates to be taken into account by the Decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u30	Thank you. Speaking Toma Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The fog started to stir a little bit, and there's another fog behind it. Now we're pretty much figuring out what the target is. It's been these three months to think of any measures. But what we can't see is who's going to think about it! Yesterday, we set up a committee in parliament, which is attended by MPs, who shortly before that adopted a moratorium, which today you want to cancel and change with another one, the same MPs who will think about measures for the next 3 months. I ask: Is the government concerned with this issue, the Minister of Energy, the Prime Minister? This is a very serious question! And why didn't they show any desire or at least Mrs. Lena Borislavova to come here and say what their concept is on this issue? Because they're gonna do it. It's not a temporary committee that does that kind of thing. These things affect the entire energy system of Bulgaria, directly affecting almost all Bulgarian citizens. Secondly, I cannot do so lightly by seeing what is the approach with the moratoriums, as they are imposed today for tomorrow, and by changing them tomorrow, so that we can do some measures to change the energy system and suddenly change everything. I don't know who's changing it, who's responsible! Well, if these measures fail, who will be responsible? Here is the collective responsibility of the Temporary Commission, which tomorrow will be gone. Is this going to be Parliament's responsibility? And another. A word of advice! I see you're going after BSP. The BSP can only lead you to some kind of bankruptcy. [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] And yesterday we were accused that we almost invented the moratorium. We were listening to Mr. Gokov this morning. [[(noise and lines from..) We continue the Change, DPS, BSP for Bulgaria................................................................................................)]] We listened to Mrs. Ninova and just suggested what they were saying, and all of you accepted it. Then Lena Borislavova told you that you are incompetent and today you offer something else that is similar. We still don't know what we're going to do. Give us three months so we can work something out here in Parliament. Please tell the Minister of Energy to come if there is any position on the matter. If not, it will not come, but if there is, to come to propose it and to present it, to say: "Tomorrow we will do this, in a month's time after that, on March 31st we expect such a result, on July 1st, another " because on July 1st the price of electricity is determined and not on March 31st. In fact, this moratorium is until 1 July. Otherwise, some kind of law needs to be changed in the meantime. But you don't have any idea what to do here at the moment, and we do, because you already think we're putting you through some watermelons all the time, we have some idea, but we're afraid to tell you because you're going to reject it. [[(Strong noise, lines and applause from..) We continue the Change.)]] It's gonna get worse. And so we're going to drive by March 31st with the prices retained and eventually the KEWRC will come out and raise the prices triple and quadruple because it has to be compensated somewhere. We are still going to make you some proposals after a while, at least related to those who are making the most money at the moment. The green energy, renewables, little and they give some money to this society, because enough money has been made in recent times. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u32	Are there any lines? Mr. Svilensky, then Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bikov, I am surprised at your insolence! Indeed, a situation that you have brought to the state [[GERB-SDS loud noise]] in which the business can not pay its electricity, the Bulgarian citizens can not pay their electricity and blame BSP that it would lead something to bankruptcy? You have led the state to bankruptcy, not BSP, not the colleagues from the INN, not the colleagues from the PP, you have done this thing and now you stand here most brazenly and tell us what to do. Yesterday, who suggested this moratorium, BSP, or your chair of a parliamentary group? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yesterday, who suggested that this moratorium be from 1 January 2022. BSP, ICN, PP or your chairman? [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] And now you stand here and say what they should do and who should be responsible. On this subject, be quiet, if you can, or speak professionally, too, if you can. But we will not allow you to throw your ignorance, your incompetence on the coalition that has taken over the government. Thank you. [[Applause from..We continue the Change, BSP for Bulgaria................................................................................................. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u34	Thank you. Colleagues, we may not exchange qualifications as incompetence. It's all about you. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bikov, I'm addressing you first. I'm surprised you can't even wait to show the full hypocrisy you're capable of. I'm surprised because you still can. You can be even more hypocrite! I remind you that the government is only two days old. I don't know what you want from the Minister of Energy for two days, because you most likely, when you entered this National Assembly, on the second day, you didn't know where the door of the President of Parliament was or how many the entrances of the National Assembly were. So give the Minister of Energy the opportunity to get into full power and when you declare from different TV studios and here, from this tribune that you will give the government some tolerance, really give it, not two days and start practicing on the back of the ministers and the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u36	Thank you. Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u37	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Bikov, I am glad you brought up the subject of RES and let's say it is a public secret that in this room there are at least 160 MPs who have a business interest in the RES sector. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] It's the truth! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] And here at the moment no one is commenting on what is happening with the business in Bulgaria, because to date the prices of the free liberalized market, which everyone here with the exception of aging support and fighting for it, the prices are record For reference only half a year ago the prices were 100 BGN and in Poland today the prices are 288 BGN. What the Bulgarian business is subjected to is a genocide which is supported by all parliamentary represented parties here, except for rebirth! It is high time for this genocide to be stopped and to take responsibility and say that the exports of NPP should be stopped and rerouted to the Bulgarian market so that we can support both business and every Bulgarian private consumer. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u38	Thank you. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ganev, I declare that I have no conflict of interest in the energy business and from this point forward I suggest that anyone who speaks should declare it in any way, including colleagues who participate in the Temporary Commission. Mr. Svilensky, seven months your caretaker government has ruled and has not taken any measures regarding energy. Seven months! Budget updates were proposed in which there were no measures in terms of energy, although at that time the price of electricity had already become double. As of January 1, 2021, the price was BGN 87, now is over BGN 500, as far as I know, so who has brought what, it is good to go explain it to your voters. Because what we have been led to by the absolute carefree management of the caretaker government in the energy sector is this impasse that we are in right now to wonder how to hold the price of electricity, because there are no social measures in terms of energy. This is also a way to deal with the current situation. Not only to keep the price, but people can be helped. Yesterday, Mr. Gokov spoke on TV about energy, about the moratorium. It does not explain what social measures it will take, but explains what to do with energy. And here to Mr. Karimanski we do not want the minister to come with some legislative, concrete proposal and so on. Okay, we're gonna give him this time with the moratorium, because we're discussing this issue right now, but at least to present some concept and say, is this moratorium behind him, is he responsible for it, is he gonna start organizing the processes in this direction, because he's gonna organize them? Aren't we the legislature and we give the executive tasks and it performs? Will he be able to carry out this task that we're going to give him here? These are important questions and there may be some position even the Prime Minister. It's not about who's how many days old, on top of that, if you've become a minister of energy. I'm sure in the last seven months he's been following what's been going on and not just in the last seven, but probably in the last few years in energy, and there's always some connection. If someone has become a minister of energy to learn about energy issues there, it is very dangerous for me and I am extremely worried about the way you approach this issue. And I repeat, give BSP an opportunity to imagine the ideas, but don't walk along their minds all the time, because we're gonna push it again by some winter. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u40	The first procedure is Mr. Dobrev's.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal to edit this. 1 in the moratorium. I'll give you the text, of course, Mr. Chairman, but I suggest after the end of the item. 1 shall be placed comma and supplemented:.. except for the determination of the estimated market price of electricity for the purposes of pricing the electricity demand from renewable sources produced by plants with a total installed capacity of 500 kilowatts and more than 500 kilowatts..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is the proposal, Mr. Chairman. To motivate this proposal, I will tell you that the occasion for it gives me the speeches from the morning blocks this morning and from yesterday's comments from the experts. Indeed, if this moratorium is introduced, it will be like this: in addition to delaying the cost decision by three months, we will make so that a part of the sector of the RES with preferential prices will be over-subsidised. Why? Because they receive the difference between the estimated market price offered by the regulator and which he proposed on July 1st - 119 BGN. at the moment, and their preferential price. So they get premiums roughly from about 350 BGN. At the moment, which is in the mass case of photovoltaics. If we introduce the moratorium without what I have just proposed, they will continue to receive over 350 BGN. premiums, provided that the market price is currently not 119 BGN, but as the colleague said, is 580 If we want to make it so that we can take this oversubsidisation from the RES and prove that our aging colleague is wrong and that there are no 160 MPs in this room who have RES or interests in the RES, I hope that you will support this proposal of mine. If you do not support it, not only will you allow this sector to be overfinanced, but you will also allow the Energy Security Fund to be drained to some extent. The calculations for this three-month period are that if the moratorium is introduced without the exception I proposed, the difference in the Fund will be more than 200 million. BGN, i.e. over 200 million lv. will be given additionally to RES producers and they will be overfinanced by over 200 million. I hope you understand. If you have any questions, I'm willing to answer them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u42	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u43	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. I've been provoked by a few speeches here and speculation here, and in the end I want to... [[The speaker's cell phone ringing]] [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] It's not Cornelia, it's someone else. So, Mr. President, I want you to call on the MPs to see how many of them have a personal participation through their wives, through their loved ones and whether they are honest with the Bulgarian voter. I suggest that we make this proposal to the MPs, who do not participate in RES, to be right. Thank you. [[(The National Representatives of GERB-SDS are becoming and clapping. Replies from GERB-SDS to BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u44	Colleagues, please take your seats. Mr. Atalay for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I do not know why the BSP did not get up. [[Laughter]] Colleagues, in order to get back to the serious part, we must first go back to this decision that the President put to the vote yesterday. I am convinced that he had not read it and today to argue from this tribune who proposed the moratorium, I would tell you who did not support this moratorium and I am convinced that there was no political formation other than the DPS. I still wonder why we are having some debate about the moratorium, besides the debate to be how and how to help businesses, to help the situation with the energy crisis that you created yesterday was a price crisis, and since yesterday it is an energy crisis, to focus on the crisis and how to get out of this situation. And let me tell you why it's an energy crisis. Because yesterday you should have seen at the Exchange how many traders have given up, who will not trade on our stock exchange. Yesterday, after hearing the word "moratorium" you shook the investment process in Bulgaria for at least six months. Yesterday, when the word "moratorium" came out, the state took it down to a banana republic. I don't know at Harvard universities how and how they read the word "moratorium," but a moratorium means you've given up that you have no way out of the situation. There are at least 17 exits out of this situation and we've picked up the white Byrak. Do we have to make a decision? Should the Council of Ministers make a decision regarding the situation and the severe situation of end-users? I have to. Should the Council of Ministers decide on municipalities, on nursing homes? Should the Council of Ministers make a decision about the business that we have been expecting for so long? I have to. Should Parliament be involved in this whole procedure because people have chosen us? We have to, but without creating a crisis. You colleagues created a crisis yesterday when you announced that we would impose a moratorium, and you are continuing today. I'm surprised, Mr. Dobrev, why didn't you come out here yesterday to tell me why you're proposing a moratorium when you know how it is and what is the way out of this whole situation? What should be done? The National Assembly absolutely must not deal with the moratorium, conclude and decide today how and how to proceed to change tax laws, reduce VAT if you want to remain the price that is currently, by as much as the rate of the increase by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. If you want even populists to enter, remove a higher percentage of the VAT and then you will reduce the price of the end users, but you can't fail the thermal efficiency Sofia, you can't make people who live in the village who will not be helped to buy the pellets, the wood, make them pay for the bankruptcy in which you will bring the heating in Sofia. The villagers don't have to pay for the warmth of the Sofians! Let's move on to the next one. Mr. Dobrev very quietly explained here, and I do not want to go any deeper, but with the imposition of the moratorium do you know what you pleaded yesterday from.Yes, Bulgaria, from BSP, including you from Harvard universities to remove art. 31b of the Law means that you take away the Commission's ability to set prices for the further period and, according to their regulation, when changing 15% up or down to set a new market price?! Why? On what grounds? Imagine that after 10 days, the price of electricity is still down? Then what will the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission do, how will it react? Do you know why you're doing this? Until yesterday, I thought you were doing this out of ignorance, and I thought you were willing to help people effectively with 200 million. lv. With this money you'll pay the companies. Shall I tell you which ones? They are the ones that didn't happen, including those who are still in the back of the major photovoltaic and windmills that are at preferential price. Do you know who they belong to? I won't say his name and GERB know it, and you know it. If you want to support these big RES plants, give them 250 million in three months, vote the moratorium, but this time it won't be out of ignorance. You will have joined the procedure for giving money to the companies of the US power plants, Prokopiev and others [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Do you understand what this is about? That's what you're fighting for, nothing else you're fighting for. Colleagues, I'll even offer you how and how to get out of this situation. First, I propose that point one be dropped, point two be dropped and the decision be:.. Cancels the decision adopted by the National Assembly at yesterday's meeting............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the morning, I hear on the Radio Horizon, before everyone, they make all kinds of interpretations: the decision has been made uninformed. Information is found in the institutions, colleagues. You should get acquainted with this information. That's our job. Our task is, once again, perhaps I will repeat myself once again: there can be no more talk of a moratorium in Bulgaria. Bulgaria is a European country. The word "moratorium" is for banana republics. In this Parliament decisions shall be taken informed and competent to the benefit of the executive. But the executive authority, as of yesterday, seemed to find only the spokeswoman, Mrs. Lena, who was our colleague here, suddenly came out and began running the Parliament of the Council of Ministers [[GERB-SDS: "How?"]] Which was old practice. At least there wasn't a speaker before, and the Prime Minister would direct it. Now, if change is gonna be that, please don't do that. Don't do it! In closing, I have many more things to say to you, many things I want to explain to you, but let our leaders sit down, including the rulers, who still cannot stick or creak with their teeth, make this lubricant. You have one Mr. Drago Stoinev, who was Minister of Energy, the economy, but has been acting as if he were only Minister of Tourism for a few days. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Please, very please, GERB what they offered you yesterday does not mean that they were right. GERB what they did yesterday does not mean that you should take this path where they led you. It means being at the height of what you've been chosen for. You have a program with which you have appeared to the public, which you don't know. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Stick to your program, because it's not bad. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u46	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u47	Mr. Chairman, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is a fact that the decision made yesterday because of the untold public interest against the backdrop of a million and 500 thousand Bulgarians who live below the poverty line in this country, which counts as a country in the European Union, but consumers are not from the large family of European consumers, this could not have happened. Using the tensions surrounding the establishment of the Temporary Commission, I am already convinced that, after all the speeches of colleagues from GERB, this decision has been put into the Chamber quite tendentially. In order to compromise the activities of the National Assembly and the government, which yesterday was 24 hours since its inauguration. As for the watermelon crust, Mr. Atalay, I don't know who the most slipped this watermelon crust or melon bark didn't matter. I am speaking, colleague Ganev, not as a representative of the energy business, but as a representative of the Federation of Consumers in Bulgaria. So very carefully with this consumer theme, because people are waiting for our solution. This decision, which our colleagues from GERB offered us yesterday, suggests that we should be very careful when we receive gifts from the Danians. You probably know what this is about. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: "No!" No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I have a special respect for doctors, Professor Angelov, because I am one of those who went not through nine, but in 19 circles of hell with a coronavirus and returned from that world. Because you are very active on the topic....................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u48	The weather, Mr. Georgiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u49	Because it was about the price, quickly to say what price there is from July 1st for domestic consumers (a line from GERB-SDSS: "Search!" because it will be a question of what price from now on we will prefer. I am talking about a price without VAT: nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" (BGN 55). at megawatths, TPP Maritsa East 2
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u50	Mr. Georgiev, this is basically a statement, not a line to Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u51	...so very carefully. Very carefully with the subject! Yeah, we should have a moratorium. Yeah, with the offer that was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u52	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to address the main statement in the line. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky, and then Mr. Dilov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! One very short line for making a suggestion from this tribune that a moratorium refers to banana republics. That's not true. Moratorium imposed, just to remind the Bulgarian banks in the last six months in the state of emergency. The Moratorium imposed on the loans the entire European banking body in Europe in terms of being able to protect businesses in order not to go bankrupt. So a moratorium does not apply to banana republics. Let's be precise, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u54	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u55	Thank you, Honourable Mr. Chairman. My line will end with a procedural proposal. Mr. Atalay, agree that the Socialists have been in power for two days and we already have Soviet power plus electrification. History repeats itself as a comedy. But I would like to draw your attention to two facts that I would like you to comment on and to complete my reply to you with one suggestion: to support my procedural proposal. In one of the first interviews of Mr. President, the Honorable Speaker of Parliament, he said it was unacceptable for parliament to be attached to the executive power. How did the executives respond to this interview last night? Answer like this: "Is that so? Hold my beer! I suggest this; based on what you have said, I have listened to you very carefully, you have very serious arguments and based on what has happened in the last two days, I am making a procedural proposal: Mr President, after today's plenary day is over, I suggest that you relax Parliament on Christmas break. Decide on how many days for example for 10, for 12, and then gather at Borovets: the ruling parliamentary majority, the Council of Ministers, to read the Constitution, read the Energy Act, read the Rules of the National Assembly, decide how you will manage, how you will make decisions and call us back when you already have one clarity of the procedure. Because, Mr. Atalay, democracy has never been an answer to where we're going, it's an answer to what we're going, how we make decisions together. At the moment, we are not aware of how we are going to make a decision, let alone choose what is the better solution. I don't know about energy. I know about procedure. Therefore, my procedural proposal is to announce a Christmas holiday after the end of today's parliamentary day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u56	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. A hole on the side of Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! To BSP's colleague. You had the opportunity to come out and speak, but since we've known each other for a long time, what do you plead for today? To give Prokopiev 250 million from the Energy Efficiency Fund or to make people receive their electricity at those prices that they are able to pay them off? If you want to pay those over 500, above the kW 250 million in those three months, support the moratorium, including your friend. And as for my colleague for the moratorium, did it belong to the banana republics? I'm sorry I didn't understand. But when we hear a moratorium, I think of 1990 in Bulgaria, and I think that you will lead us to bright things. That's what change is about, that's what's happening right now. Very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Karimanski: "Live Today! "]] As far as I know, you are an economist, go and gather all the economists, including those from Krasen Stanchev, start all the way to where you are, to tell you what a moratorium means and what you have been fighting for for for two days now. It doesn't suit you... [[IHN lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u58	Not from where I'm standing!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u59	As for Mr. Dilov-son. If it hadn't sounded like you were inviting us to Sunday school, I would have accepted your procedure. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u60	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u61	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u62	For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I understand that the political party to which you now belong and the parliamentary group is pulling you towards their ideals of censorship, but do not allow yourself to advise MPs and you to impose censorship. Regarding the fact that you are a representative of the Ecovognost. I cannot understand how we remember, many years ago, the protests against the Bulgarian Communist Party started with..Ecognition, now you have changed the principles of this organization and have become part of the party you fought against. So you give me advice on how to speak and on what subjects to take, Mr. Georgiev, they are part of the past and censorship is only in the heads of the Bulgarian Communist Party and it cannot be part of the ideals of a democracy in which we are present, so thank you for the advice. I will continue to speak on the topics on which I think I should protect the interest of the Bulgarian citizens who voted for me. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u64	Thanks for the speech. Mrs. Petkova. [[The National Representative Tsoncho Ganev is going to the stands and wants the floor for a reply.]] There's no line and no duplicate on the personal explanation. Please! [[(People's representative Tsoncho Ganev, away from the microphones: He quotes my name!]] Make your own personal explanation. Then for a statement Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u65	Mr. Georgiev, I'm recently in parliament. I have no idea how long you've been in parliament, but to put it mildly, it's not polite to allow yourself to determine who's going to say what from here. I'm going to ask you to refrain from becoming who you are. You have no right to determine what I'm going to say. Plus, you're extremely inadequate, you're quoting me, you're quoting other people, you came from energy to explain how you went through a coronavirus. Extremely inadequate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u66	No offense!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u67	I very much ask you, before you speak, to consider either as your colleague yesterday from... We continue the Change................................. just to repeat yourselves in order to correct yourself. It doesn't suit you at your age. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u68	We're done with this exchange of insults, including personal explanations. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova, for a statement on the substance of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, my speech is provoked by what has been heard here in the Chamber, related to what is the behaviour of the Political Party GERB and our coalition partners from the UDF, regarding the so-called price crisis and who has led to what energy has led to. You provoked me just to remind you of some things: energy was in critical financial condition and was almost on the verge of technical bankruptcy in November 2014, when we from the Political Party GERB took over the country's governance. Energy was then in financial collapse. There were so many inter-company obligations, such an inter-company debt and such a huge deficit in NEC that the system was really facing technical bankruptcy. At present, we can happily say by 12 May 2021 that energy is both financially and technically stable. So what have we led the energy to speak the facts? the numbers are there. See what is the statistics back in time, look at the price of electricity in the management of the Political Party GERB and see what the price of electricity from 5 August 2021 to now. This will give you an answer to the question who has managed and who has brought the country's energy system to what. As for the moratorium debate, I'm beginning to not believe what I'm actually hearing. It appears almost that we of Coalition GERB-SDS are to blame for the fact that you voted on our proposal yesterday. It was done not out of love for the government today, but out of concern for the Bulgarian citizens. You, as I recall, supported this proposal by a huge majority yesterday. At that time, we were neither insolent nor devious, nor were you misled........... you voted unanimously. After that, however, you apparently got scolded by the executive and decided that something had to change. So, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House of Parliament continue the Change, you entered Parliament with the motto to restore parliamentaryism. As we can see, however, you go to Parliament to become a rubber seal of the executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. - What's the line? Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u71	I don't understand the drama that runs in your ranks, expressed by the unspeakable. In the end, we are in the process of setting up yesterday's decision. It can be adjusted even better. There are suggestions on your part as well, so we're just fixing yesterday's decision and we're going to reconfirm it. You should be extremely happy that this is the second time we're going to confirm something that you've proposed. So please calm your nerves and stop talking by heart.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u72	Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, and I call on you to calm down a little bit. I hope everyone in this room has good intentions. We all realize that the majority of Bulgarian citizens will not be able to pay the price of electricity if things remain the way they are at the moment. Therefore, the people's representation we are doing everything possible to make it possible to ease the budget of every Bulgarian family - that is the good intention we want to achieve. Was yesterday's decision the right thing to do, can it be refined today?! Yes, any decision can be further refined. I therefore hope that we will soon make a more sensible decision to be made, but in order to help each Bulgarian family in particular. So right now, let's go back to what the price was on August 5th, and at the moment what it is, the realities are very different from what was until August 5th, to what it is now. Let's get into a deep analysis of what should have been done in energy. I think this is not the place and it is not the time, but it will come to the point that much of the things that could have been done could have been done so that Bulgaria could be at a completely different level of energy independence. I propose now that we really concentrate on what the moratorium should be, exactly how to make it so that not some people win more than this moratorium, but the only ones to win will be Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian households. Dear colleagues, let us concentrate and finish this endless talk and attempts to rehearse from the National Assembly stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u74	Thank you. Is there another line? I won't. Mrs. Petkova, do you have a duplicate? You don't. We continue with the speeches. I've recorded Yordan Tsonev, but I don't see him in the room. [[(Replying:.) Coming, coming...)]] Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u75	Mr. Chairman, if I may be excused for not being in this Chamber. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to recall on the occasion of the National Assembly's moratorium that an action that is positive and which awaits a solution, such as delaying electricity prices at least for domestic consumption, should be well thought out, be lawful and constitutional and comply with European norms. If we don't learn by solving one problem, we don't open another two, three, five or ten, we don't solve anything. I remember, and that is why I took the floor to remind you of our 28 April debate at the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly. It was broadcast on BNT and people saw it. The debate in which, as it says, we came to obscene scenes in which BSP and BSP's leader wanted a moratorium on the actions of the executive in relation to the need to be scrapped GERB. I don't like that word, but I'm forced to use it. Then from this tribune we said that this is unconstitutional and that it should not be done, and if we want to restore some justice, it cannot be restored by illegal means. We have warned that the Constitutional Court will repeal this moratorium and that this will have consequences because all those affected by the decision appeal in court and the state will be forced to suffer damage because the decisions of the court will be in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, of course. On 28 September, the Constitutional Court ruled on this case and annulled the moratorium of the National Assembly. The reasons are 16 pages, among which there are also those that relate to today's case. The law confers autonomy on individual authorities through constitutional norms, but also obliges them to observe a valid form, a certain way of realising their activities, and also constitutionally marked means of expressing power. Each of the main functions of legislative, executive and judicial must be carried out in the limits defined by the Constitution and in accordance with the rules laid down by it and so on. A Moratorium on a decision of an independent regulator or moratorium on a future decision, on the possibility of a regulator taking a decision given to it by law, and also by European legal rules, is not a legal solution to the matter. Here is the place to highlight once again what Mr. Atalay and other colleagues have said: DPS is definitely for solving this problem. The DPS will support any solution that is lawful, and such opportunities exist. Do you think there's time? We have time, and if we have to, we'll work on December 31 if we have to, we'll work on Christmas! We must provide people with protection from the price shock of this jump, and we must not allow them to pay the price of the increase in energy exports, but not with a moratorium. It is the easiest. We have taken the easiest again the National Assembly imposes a moratorium. Who? An independent regulator?! Come on now we will ask the European Commission how it deals with the intervention of the legislative power over the powers of independent regulators. The European Commission and the European Parliament are particularly sensitive to the intervention in the work of independent regulators. Let me stress once again that we will support any decision. There are at least a few of them visible at first glance before the in-depth analysis of lawyers and specialists in energy. Let's look for this solution. Moratorium is not a solution, because in this particular case, if there is a cancellation of the moratorium, believe me, there will be very severe financial sanctions to the state. This is not about protecting any corporate interest, but about large international companies operating on our market, and if the moratorium is cancelled, they will seek their rights and financial losses will pay the budget, respectively the Bulgarian taxpayer. I appeal to you to think about it. Moratorium is an easy decision, but it's not the right decision. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Donchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will innocently abuse the procedure, as far as I had no right to the doppelganger in terms of what Mr. Dilov said. I believe, Mr. Chairman, you will agree with me that every number that is said from this tribune and every quote must be accurate. Isn't that right? After all, this is the highest tribune in the country. Mr. Dilov took the liberty of making a catastrophic suggestion using an inaccurate quote. He quoted Hegel as saying that history was repeating itself as a comedy. There's no such text. The original text is that history is repeated only as a farce or only as a tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Manev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I will be extremely brief in my speech with a retrospective analysis of what happened yesterday and is happening today in this House, in connection with the moratorium that we imposed in this meeting. We will start with the early morning blocks, which were trying to warm up public opinion in Bulgaria for the adoption of such a moratorium, for which we had decided, but media figures decided so from our ranks here in Parliament to warm up society, starting from the left and ending at the right. I'm not gonna quote names of coworkers so we don't get into that talk with personal explanations and so on. You've all been watching, if you haven't seen, ask your P.R.s. They'll tell you. We've put in an offer, which, you see, today I hear someone's been misled. Who's been fooled? The experts at BSP are recognized. The experts on the right have been recognized. Experts are probably among the new colleagues I don't know, and I apologize if I don't appreciate them from this grandstand of dignity. These experts today.. 24 hours later, understood what risks this moratorium has. Come on, come on. There are no risks in this moratorium and you know it. However, it is now important to do the analysis of what really happened. Really. In fact, this happened: minutes after we adopted this moratorium, phones started ringing somewhere. Somewhere they started calling phones, giving sponsors, giving people close to someone, giving speakers to the Council of Ministers. When I say speakers of the Council of Ministers that I remembered, colleagues, from the 43rd Assembly, I am in this Chamber, and that was the rubber seal, that with the Prime Minister's Republic, that with the meaningless National Assembly, I have heard it a thousand times. Today why didn't anyone get up here to say: hey, we are no longer a prime minister republic, we are a republic of the spokesman of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] He brought you together the Members of the National Assembly, appointed you a Commission, told you what to vote on in this committee. I sincerely sympathize with my fellow chairman of this committee because he is my fellow citizen and I know him, and I do not know how he will cope if they continue to give him directives on the phone, and not the prime minister, for example, who is in charge of policies, or the minister of energy, but the chief of staff. He's the head of administration. He's not your boss, and you know that. To the old colleagues who are here and who have accused us of thousands of sins, I want to say to them: well, you're going to make peace with being our boss?! Picking you up and making you wild and happy, making all kinds of decisions, and here today you're sweating and making arguments all over the place, just to get rid of one thing we've done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u80	Mr. Manev, get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u81	I'm graduating. We actually did the most important thing. We stopped the price of electricity at prices from January before the June increase and before yesterday's Commission meeting, which would have increased it further. This is the pain and suffering, in fact, that we couldn't increase it, you couldn't or couldn't, it doesn't matter, to increase it once again. That's the truth. Now the adjustments you are proposing can also be useful as time frame and other things. Just don't buy it at prices that have nothing to do with January. Because we do it for people to have cheaper bills. We don't do it for anything else. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u82	Thank you. There are no lines. Here's your speech, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The truth is that if someone uses something without paying for it, someone pays for it without using it. With this moratorium that was adopted yesterday, extremely thoughtless, extremely hasty, misleading the new quadruple coalition to enter into some reckless decision without numbers and without justification at the moment, we continue to correct one mistake with another mistake. I'm sorry that in the motives we heard this morning about changing the decision, we didn't hear any figures. The truth is that it is difficult to gather that these are at least two ministries, perhaps three... the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Energy, the Social Ministry, the Ministry of Finance.. they are all very involved in carrying out these policies and this decision that we will take here. I would very much like to take as much responsibility as possible, as seriously as possible, towards the exit from the situation in which yesterday the ruling majority put the Council of Ministers, and perhaps the Council of Ministers, put the ruling majority in place. However, we are at stake right now, starting with Bulgaria's image on the international markets, prices, profits of companies, business and, of course, the survival of people. After all, what we need to do must be done so that we can untie the noose from the business door and make some real help for people. Because if people get low prices for electricity, but pay these prices, this decrease in electricity through increased prices of food products and the goods that business produces for them will actually have no real reduction. Yes, discontent will not be directed against energy distribution companies and against electricity bills, but will be directed against bakers who sell supposedly more expensive bread, but we should at least know that the electricity bill will actually be inserted into the business account through obligations to society. These are things that we seriously, responsiblely need to think about, without throwing lines and duplicates at each other and trying the best, most constructive way to get out of the situation, in which yesterday, due to inexperience and ignorance, the ruling majority of the government and parliament and the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u84	Thank you. Is there a line? I won't. For speech spoke Alexander Nenkov, then Zhecho Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let's tell each other the truth. This moratorium and this decision were reached yesterday for one reason only, the uncertainty of the ruling majority, the government's how to deal with the price shock that we are facing. GERB did not intend to propose such a type of solution. In my personal capacity, I can express my opinion that I am not a supporter of moratoriums. You were right, Mr. Atalay, that when you don't have a solution, it's kind of running away from responsibility, and I've always said so. However, we proposed the moratorium because we saw that you actually have no idea what to do. Yesterday I told you: seven months of lost time. Seven months in which you dealt, and two parliaments, with all sorts of other things, but not with the important topics I think about society. One was the coronavirus, the other was the energy shock, support for business, support for people, rising inflation. These are the important topics of society. You dealt with everything but this. Since yesterday, when you are already in charge, you have actually found yourself in a situation of inability to offer adequate solutions. The inexperience of going out on this stage and losing your mind is understandable, and it's happened to me, and everyone maybe a little bit or a lot, it takes time for you to get some experience after all. That's not a problem. It's a problem, though, when you come to power with a very high bar, you come to power with promises of expertise, you come to power with the promise that you know what you're going to do, you have a clear program and a plan to do it, but it turns out that's not the case. Is this how it is, fellow Members, that we should soon start talking about one of your favorite topics about ladybugs? Because no one wants the Minister of Energy to come here today and be extremely accurate, accurate, to provide information and data, but is asked by the Minister of Energy to be here and to be a participant in the decision, whatever it is. The fact that Mr. Nikolov, who is the Minister of Energy, is not here means that he is also hiding. Given that you are four parties that you manage, which you will set the course, and it will be the person that will perform, including the entire Council of Ministers will implement these decisions, he must participate precisely in making this decision, but he is not. Yesterday made another serious impression on the statement of the spokesman of the Council of Ministers, and I was really puzzled. She said how it was, the experienced opposition imposes decisions. Colleagues, I congratulated you first yesterday with my speech that you are beginning to realize that you are in charge and are responsible. Only with that statement yesterday, I take it back. You still don't realize that you're responsible and that you're in charge. Your decisions matter. You're not on the street anymore. There are no more protests. You are no longer a ruling party. You are a ruling majority. Tell me: I have been in this Parliament for so many years and we have had all kinds of debates with opposition, we have both been opposition and ruling, but I have never had the opposition impose anything. How will the opposition with 59 MPs impose anything? Can someone come out and explain this thing to me? This justification, to tell you the truth, is not in favor of the ruling majority. On the contrary, it's the other way around. This means the inability to make adequate decisions and come out and say: GERB has proposed a moratorium. To go out and say, no, it's not good or not, it has to change that way. When did you realize the wrong decision was made? When? When did GERB propose it? When you took 30 minutes off? You had all the time in the world. Mrs. Cornelia Nino came here. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Industry. She was here, too, or when you voted on this proposal? When did you realize there was a problem? When? Can someone come out and explain this thing to me? How does the opposition impose anything? Colleagues, it would be funny if it wasn't too sad. You're in charge, you're in charge. All responsibility! When GERB ruled, no one helped us for anything. The opposition comes out, offers one, two, three. However, it is the government's job to say what they think is good and what is not. The big problem, colleagues, is that you simply have no idea. In fact, until yesterday's decision came from the fact that you want to make a committee to buy time because you have no idea how and how to get out of the situation you are in. That's the truth. It is good to realize that all responsibility is now in your hands. I say again: if inexperience is not a vice, it is a vice when you come in with big requests, with a big aplomb, but in fact, when you wake up, you realize that you simply have no idea, you have no idea how and how to approach it. That's what's sad. I hope I'm wrong. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u86	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please, first of all, extend the group's time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, the topic we are discussing today will have an impact not only within the next few months in which the moratorium is. Unfortunately, however, the proposal to amend the Decision in this form does not solve the whole problem and I will tell you why. First of all, today is all about the cost of energy. Yesterday, colleagues from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, who I very much respect, both their entire composition and the Commissioner, and the administration, after hearing what is being debated here, immediately ceased the public discussion of their draft report. But we need to be clear about one thing, the proposal is the price of energy, I repeat, of energy, to drop from 119 BGN. £111. However, the price of services offered by ISO and ERPs is rising. Yesterday, I apologize to Mr Ribarski for not having been able to attend from the very beginning, commenting very carefully on whether these decisions taken in the Commission and those in the Chamber today will affect only the regulated or free market. Colleagues, given the fact that the increase in the price of transmission, access, distribution and so on has an impact not only on households but also on business, I would like to introduce the following editorial proposals. Mr. Chairman, come in. [[The National Representative Zhecho Stankov submitted the editorial proposals to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u89	They refer to two main points. First of all, because ultimately it is household consumers who always pay the bill, we must ensure that, apart from their electricity bills, they are not raised, that business does not increase in the final price of goods and services. This can only be done in one way, namely creating a new t. 4 which states: The Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance to prepare a compensation mechanism for the compensation of non-bit consumers of 75% of the difference between the estimated market price set out in Decision No C-27 of 1 July 2021 of the KEWRC and the medium-month market price of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange platform. The compensatory mechanism shall enter into force from 1 December 2021 The reasons for this amendment are that from 1 December this year we do not have a compensatory mechanism aimed at business. The only way for domestic consumers except to raise their electricity bill, but not to raise the goods and services they have to pay in the most critical months of the year is to accept this point. In addition, however, I am inclined to agree here and with those who spoke yesterday at the meeting I was able to return it and review all the speeches, we must think very carefully about the security of the energy system, the security of the water companies and the water companies. What do I mean? We are all aware that by introducing this moratorium, it is not just a matter of spending. The expenses are there. However, it is important in what way will these costs be covered and by whom will they be covered? In this regard, in order to ensure the security of the electricity system, the existence of companies under point 1. 1, we suggest t. 5: The Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance shall draw up a compensatory mechanism for the countries concerned under point 5. 1 - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stankov, I do not agree with you that the price of electricity recorded for the Regulator is not clear enough what is meant. In my opinion, the will of the National Assembly, and by looking at the actions of the Regulator since yesterday, understands that it is about the final price of electricity. At the same time, however, I would like to draw attention to the MPs of the second part of your speech, which concerns business compensation. Your proposal, I think, should be supported by the entire House because many of the people, many of the MPs from each of the parliamentary groups, have paid attention to the fact that yes, we are solving the issue, according to the importers of the moratorium on household prices, but we are in no way solving the issue of the high price for business. That's 500 BGN. for the businesses that are currently being paid will continue to be paid without any compensation. My colleague Stankov's proposal is to give compensation, to put in this moratorium compulsory compensation for the business of 75% between the estimated market price and the market price, i.e. the regulator said: the estimated market price is 120 BGN. The business has bet, budgeted in its expenses 120 BGN. It turns out, however, that the price is 600 BGN, not 120 BGN. Then the colleague proposes to support these enterprises through the budget by 75% of the difference between 600 BGN. and 120 BGN, which I think is a fair solution, is supported by employers' organizations. I sent it to colleagues in the field of energy from the various parliamentary parties to have the text of this proposal and to be able to think about it, but I also encourage you to support this proposal, because it will really help not only lifestyles, but will solve the real problem that we talked about yesterday. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That you had 110 leva. for October and November, but not since 1 December. This is what we will say with this decision: there will also be from 1 December compensation of 75% between the market price and the estimated market price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u92	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Another line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My line will be directed to the proposed two new points. The main objective of this is to give ourselves some time to be able to evaluate a working group, to propose specific measures to be imposed in order to address the energy crisis. Therefore, proposing measures that have not passed a preliminary assessment, we do not consider it a good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u94	Thank you. For a line, Mr. Atalay? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u95	) Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, yesterday morning with what you have already admitted at the first point of not entering into the substance of the adoption of the agenda, you have admitted that during the whole day the speeches have been related to all the nonsense that we are continuing to talk about today about the same things. And at the moment, if we do not focus on the text that you are proposing, and on these proposals, I see that colleagues from GERB are experts, specialists, my respects to them, but are currently making a policy on a foreign back. Politics make it here, from parliament, because politics are really being made here, but I'm gonna ask you, let's have the respect! Until it comes in with proposed solutions, amendments, additions, all that is related to pricing, or dealing with the price crisis, this if it does not pass through the Ministry of Finance, if it has not passed through the Council of Ministers, if the government does not make the decision, understand that today what we are doing is not acceptable at all. We'll send one solution as far as I can see 75%. Why not 76%? I don't know. Why not 70%? The idea of parliament is to say what politics should be. Mr. Chairman, let's get to the point. The proposed amendments and additions to the agenda on this point to vote on them, because the next ones to come out will offer 100% business support. The business is really failing, but there must be precise, clear estimates by Mr. Asen Vassilev, by Mr. Kiril Petkov and I am sending them a message from here. Mr. Petkov, take control in your hands! You can't make fun of absolutely everything that happens in this country. It's indecent, guys! Of course, politics allows this thing, but there are limits. With all due respect! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if my time is over, but you have time, I hope you don't ruin it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u96	Thank you. Mr. Stankov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start by the lines. Thank you to Mr. Dobrev for further details. Indeed, it is the business that has suffered significantly from the corruption and through it also by increasing the prices of goods and services.... and Bulgarian citizens. It is certain, however, that by means of t. 4 We maintain the competitiveness of business not only within the territory of the country, but also in the territory not only of Europe but of the whole world. Regarding the reply of our colleague from "We are continuing the Change" we have had the opportunity to work together in the sector. We are talking to you here, to all the political forces, both those in power and opposition, I also address the Bulgarian media, which absolutely impartially convey all the information to the Bulgarian citizens, the conclusion of your speech and today's actions is as follows: First of all, by shifting the date of the moratorium, which we proposed yesterday and today you are proposing, you will not really carry out the promised actions, and not just keeping, but even reducing the accounts, if you had kept our date. With the non-acceptance of t. 4 et c. 5 as proposals to your decision You condemn the Bulgarian business to bankruptcy, you condemn the Bulgarian small, medium and large enterprises to the possibility to immediately start releasing people because some of them can no longer finance their electricity bills. Why 75%, Mr. Atalay? This conversation has been repeatedly led by employers' organizations of both the big employers and small and medium businesses. Taking 75% of the weight of higher prices, on the one hand, is a disciplinary effect because we are not taking 100%, but we continue to show them that they need to be reformed and must be more energy efficient, and on the other hand, we show them that the boiling water in the radiator of the bus that drives the coalition government at the moment should slightly open the cap, because otherwise it will explode. And what do I mean? If you do not accept t. 5 means that both state-owned enterprises in the sector are going bankrupt and all of these licensees who are currently fulfilling their obligations related to the Energy Act. So t. 4 et c. 5 ensure and complement your decision in the part not only not to jump the electricity bills of the citizens, but not to increase their costs for goods and services with which the business immediately calculates its higher price for energy. And secondly, maintaining security in the energy sector, I apologize, here we address Mr. Nankov, because he will surely correct me, and in the water sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u98	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Any other speeches? People's representative Rosen Zhelyazkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Since yesterday, discussions on the establishment of the Temporary Commission and on the subject of the moratorium give rise to a high degree of reactivity. And the causal link between speeches, lines and duplicates does not actually contribute to clarifying the public about what we are talking about in plenary, what decisions we are making, what their purpose is and where we are going with them. With votes yesterday's moratorium, we actually answered the question not whether but what is to come. Let's go from understanding what a moratorium is. Moratorium is not a suspension, moratorium is not a delay, moratorium is a delay. We are slowing down decisions that are not of the competence of the National Assembly. And the genre of the dispute yesterday started by the need for a Temporary Commission, which does not have the competence to resolve policy issues in the sector anyway. The delay in due is not the decision, it is not the regulation, it is not the price, it is not the crisis. We will find ourselves in the same situation in three months if the competent state authorities do not do their job. What does the Energy Act say? He says that a competent authority is the Minister of Energy and State Policy is implemented through the Council of Ministers and through the National Assembly. In three months' time, if we do not have policies in the State Budget Act for 2022, if we do not have policies that are related to compensation, whether with step-by-step pricing against consumers, whether with reimbursement, policies that the executive should propose, and not the Temporary Commission to propose to the executive, we will still ask ourselves whether or not, but what is to come. And in the end, I want to tell you, fellow Members, Ignorantia legis neminem excusat! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u100	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Replies to the MP Rosen Zhelyazkov? I won't. Statements? Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to do an editorial amendment to the text of this. 3 read as follows: The decision shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u102	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u103	Mr. President, I think that we are all united here by the idea that we should find a solution to prevent the financial interests of Bulgarian citizens from being harmed, as well as Bulgarian entrepreneurs, of course. However, in this conversation there is somehow a lack of one of the main factors that bears the great responsibility for what will ultimately be decided, and that is the executive power. We said yesterday one proposal, which today was supplemented by another, said by my colleague Tsoncho Ganev, that there are two options that can be achieved, and without commenting on any further decisions at the moment in the National Assembly. One as good and as fair as possible redistribution of the price market for household, the first concerning the so-called American temes. And the second concerns the redistribution of this share of the energy produced by the nuclear power plant, which goes to the regulated market. I'm starting backwards. The regulated market currently assumes about 24 " 25% of the total share of nuclear power produced by the NPP." It is said that Kozloduy NPP has contracts that are long-term and we have done, and this is actually currently hindering, according to some analysts and experts, the possibility of redirecting some of the energy produced to the internal market here, I mean for the regulated market. It turned out, however, that from 1 January 2022, at least as of yesterday, there were no long-term contracts that the Kozloduy nuclear power plant signed and the management made such commitments. Consequently, with the possibility of redirecting one part, since at the moment the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" constitutes more than 40% of the total share of the electricity produced, while at the same time a quarter of this electricity produced only goes for bits, the cheapest electricity, most of it goes for export. It is quite possible that this thing will happen and, of course, it depends on the executive authority and, above all, on the management of the state that controls the NPP. The second possible flexible instrument, which is once again in the hands of the executive, since yesterday I proposed to take into account the recommendation of the European Commission from June this year to renegotiate or even to end contractual relations in this format with the TPP Maritza East 1 and 3. It turns out that these contracts were once signed in an extremely traitorous way for Bulgaria. As a result, and even if we break these treaties, eventually the Americans will still get what is prescribed because of the huge penalties, because the contract is really signed exclusively to the detriment of the Bulgarian national and state interests, and the contracts expire 2024 and 2026. Something else can be done that is still very flexible, but in order for this to happen, it has to be implemented by people who actually think as managers, not as speakers of foreign embassies. What can be done is because at the moment the value of the electricity that we are buying from these two American temes is for one 330 and for the other 270 roughly. Of course, the exact numbers are a little different. At the same time, the value of electricity at yesterday's date was BGN 560 on the free market at the moment. What is the problem with the state buying this electricity, which we have to buy it out anyway and then throw it figuratively into the free market? This is what any manager in his place would do, not put that money on the regulated market, in which the Bulgarian domestic consumers end up paying. With only these two moves the government can very quickly and elegantly, especially if it claims to have management and management capacity and potential, which is greater than the one we have seen before, can solve these problems, and within the next two weeks, literally by the end of the year. Instead, we are going into very long and complicated discussions about whether this decision that took place yesterday is good, whether it should be for example now by March, whether by the end of April, as my colleague Angel Georgiev suggested. It should not and should not be in a conversation which concerns all Bulgarian voters and Bulgarian citizens, to participate only one of the authorities. The absence of the executive at the moment cannot and cannot be justified by the explanation: the government is two days old. What does that mean? Aren't they ready to rule? I don't think that's a serious excuse. So we are also demanding to hear the opinion of the executive, because the decisions in the sector have always been, above all, priority taken by the government and not by parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? I won't. For procedure? Here you go, Mr. Butler.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change we want to ask for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u106	Colleagues, break till 11:30. Half an hour. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u107	Colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing the discussion on t. 1 on the agenda for today. Are there any more speeches? Mrs. Atanasova, you? Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Bringing the subject back to the subject for a while or what our fellow Members are offering us with a new draft solution is something like repairing the moratorium on the moratorium. In fact, Team A offers plan B, and that's not bad at all. You have expressed some doubts, you have done so in a way that does not meet the Staff Regulations with a committee which does not have such powers, a draft decision which has been tabled after the time, but let us say we will give it to the lack of sufficient parliamentary experience. From now on, I think we should essentially say a few things about this decision project. First of all, the proposals that have taken place, I hope that they will receive your support because they regulate the market not only for domestic consumers, but also for business, something for which all business organizations from yesterday appealed. They're regulating it in terms of RES. I think that we should also be extremely united here, although I realize that now, whatever we offer you from GERB, you will have doubts that it is some kind of watermelon crust. Don't! Indeed, we warned you yesterday in view of our greater experience in the Temporary Commission to think more carefully. Mr. Chairman, in this sense, I am proposing an amendment. The first is in t. 1 the words "sixteenth December 2021" shall be deleted. The reason is that the prices at today's date 16 December 2021 are much different and much higher than the prices on 1 January 2021. If you want, they may be relevant to the prices from 1 July 2021, but I think that by 16 December 2021 it is not appropriate to record in our decision. The second editorial proposal is t. 3 to be dismissed, Mr. Chairman, because the decisions of the National Assembly shall enter into force immediately. Nowhere in legal theory, constitutional theory, is there any possibility that abnormal acts will enter into force on the day of promulgation. I will only give you one example, colleagues, for example, the decision to elect a President shall enter into force immediately, it shall be the decision of the National Assembly, and for any other position, even before it is announced in the Official Journal, it shall be legal inadequacy. In this sense, I believe that Mr. President will also support me in this proposal. 3 according to your proposed version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Let me just ask you a few questions. 1 supposed to be the text supplied 16 December 2021 and how to amend it exactly?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u110	It has a current text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u111	At the levels of 1 January 2021, so be it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u112	That's right, yes. Here, I'm him... et cetera. 3 drop out of the draft decision. [[submits the President with the proposal list]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u113	Thank you. Is there a line to Mrs. Atanasova? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let us proceed to the vote on the proposals made. First of all, we are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay for dropping all of this. 1, dropping all of t. 2 a t. 3 to be with text, perhaps rather it is correct to say: t. 2 et c. 3 to drop out and so on. 1 to be with the text: "Acceptance of the decision." [[The national representatives of the DPS shall enter the Chamber.]] I'm sorry I didn't call you. Let us wait for our colleagues to take their seats and we will proceed to vote on the proposal of the MP Ramadan Atalay. [[Reply: "Repeat! "]] Yeah, I'll say it again. Please take your seats. [[Calls the MPs from the DPS.]] We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Ramadan Atalay for dropping points 2 and 3 etc. 1 to be with text: A decision of the National Assembly to deal with the price crisis of electricity adopted on 15 December 2021 is cancelled, is not it, Mr Atalay? [[Reply from "We are continuing the change": "The economic crisis. "]] The price crisis is the text of the Decision. We're going to vote on Mr. Atalay's proposal. They voted 216 MPs: 28 against 146, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on legal and technical proposals and editorial proposals. First of all, on t. 1 a proposal was made by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova for the removal of the text Please proceed to the vote on Dessislava Atanasova's proposal. Vote 218 MPs: 57 against 128, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next proposal again on point. 1. The proposal of the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev is to supplement the text, with after the date Please vote on the proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev. Vote 215 MPs: 98, against 76, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. [[National Representative Toma Bikov wants the floor.]] Revoting? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, I propose a re-voting, if anyone has not understood that this proposal is being made so as not to subsidize those who have accumulated huge profits, these are the RESs. And there's no need, Mr. Genov, to get up in the hall to see who protects this interest, this is seen through the vote. If you reject it, it means that this majority is lobbying. It's a lobby vote if you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u115	Mr. Bikov, we're re-voting directly, there's no need to argue on the ground. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u116	There, there. There are rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u117	We're overreacting. Vote 215 MPs: 98, against 73, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. ) (a.k.a. 2 a proposal was made by the National Representative Angel Georgiev to amend the date of March 31, 2022 with the date of April 30, 2022. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Angel Georgiev. They voted 216 MPs: for 71, against 83, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the proposal of the MP Petar Kulenski for amendment in point. 3 as follows: after the word "promunication" the words are put to him in the Official Journal. Please vote on the proposal made by Peter Kulenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u118	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u119	Maybe a procedure. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry, I'm being properly reminded, there's no procedure, excuse me. Please vote on Peter Kullenski's proposal. Vote 188 MPs: 131, against 52, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. There has been a proposal from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov to create a new item. 4 et c. 5 with the following text: "4." The Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance shall draw up a compensatory mechanism to compensate non-bit consumers of 75% of the difference between the estimated market price set out in Decision C-27 of 1 July 2021 of the KEWRC and the average market price day forward on the platform of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. The compensatory mechanism shall enter into force from 1 December 2021. 5. The Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance shall draw up a compensatory mechanism for the countries concerned under this heading. 1. The compensatory mechanism shall enter into force from 1 January 2022 I guess if they were voted, they would become a t. 2 et c. 3. Their systematic place is more like there. Please vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Zhecho Stankov. Vote 189 MPs: 69 against 82, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u120	Mr. Chairman, my re-voting procedure. I'll base it very briefly. There were colleagues who couldn't vote. [[Loud noise.]] The other thing is, colleagues, Mr. Chairman, this is the only proposal aimed at business. It currently has a price of electricity above BGN 500. without any subsidy, because the subsidy, which had chosen the provisional government, worked two months with the ridiculous 110 leva. We suggest 75% of the compensation from day forward. Colleagues, right-thinking, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We're rewording without argument, basically. Vote again on the proposal of the National Representative Zhecho Stankov. Vote 186 MPs: 68 against 80, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Last, we are voting on the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova. 3 drop completely. Vote 217 MPs: 57 against 96 abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the main text, as edited by the adopted proposal of the MP Petar Kulenski. The text of the Project is as follows: ? RESPONSIBILITY? amending and supplementing the Decision of the National Assembly on dealing with the price crisis of electricity adopted on 15 December 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED A decision of the National Assembly to address the price crisis of electricity adopted on 15 December 2021 shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. So far, text becomes t. 1 and amended as follows: The National Assembly imposes a moratorium on the price of electricity, water services and heat on a regulated market at the levels of 16 December 2021. 2. A t is created. 2 by the following text: The decision shall be valid until 31 March 2022. 3. A t is created. 3 by the following text: The decision shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Please vote on the text of the main proposal. Vote 138 MPs: 132, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is a negative vote. Colleagues, first of all, that from yesterday until today you changed your mind and we understood it from a statement from the head of the current government, not even from your parliamentary groups, that you would revise this decision, which you all supported yesterday, except for one parliamentary group. I'll tell you why I voted against. Because, first of all, you have proven that you are not some incredible change if you cannot make your own decisions, and they are dictated to you by the Chief of Staff of your Council of Ministers. Secondly, with today's decision and the dropping of all the proposals made by the opposition by GERB-SDZ, you, firstly, defended the lobbying interests of the water sector and secondly, I do not know what management, unless left-liberally, does not support business. We made a very well-supported proposal on how to make up for business in order to be competitive because all European countries, colleagues, have done so. If we want to develop the economy and increase Bulgaria's gross domestic product, the salaries, social payments and taxes You have now condemned them, you have not supported our proposal. And to tell Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian employers and companies that you left them without support in this energy crisis, you have no solutions for exiting the three crises that the office left behind, but as we can see, a large part of the current cabinet is also from Radev's office. So, colleagues, please, another time when you go out, tell us which lobbying texts to prepare the hall and the Bulgarian citizens to expect you to vote because we are against them. We are making our constructive proposals as opposition, but unfortunately, once again to stress that you have accepted lobbyist interests today not in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and business, but perhaps of a business which is, however, only in one particular sector of energy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u123	Thank you. Declaration, come in. It won't be on the agenda, will it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u124	Declaration on behalf of the Political Party There is such a people in connection with the announced introduction of a green certificate. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is a topic concerning practically all Bulgarian citizens, a topic for which we have made clear commitments and which needs clarification. A political party has such a people and stands behind its declared responsible position by supporting in plenary the newly elected government and participating in it with its representatives. The overall policy of this government and its future actions are based on the signed coalition agreement, which forms the main sectors and the commitments of the participants in it. In this sector, the Contracting Parties have agreed on an active position to deal with the conflict based on multiple measures, with only one of them being an active campaign to stimulate voluntary vaccination based on public awareness and voluntary choice, without any form of administrative pressure. Nowhere in the Agreement is a word written about the green certificate, nor has it even been commented in the Health Commission about its mandatory introduction. More than that. Nowhere in the election platforms of all parties involved in the coalition government, the issue of introducing this certificate was not mentioned, commented or promised. We believe that a significant part of the electoral support for these parties is due precisely to this fact. A political party has always professed that the right to work cannot be limited by such compulsory administrative measures without a real alternative because non-exercise of the right to work is not an alternative. Instead of being commented on, any of the other measures to deal with the health crisis enshrined in the Agreement, we were surprised to find that the new executive, in the face of the Prime Minister and some portfolio ministers, at the very beginning of the formation of the government expressed a clear willingness to introduce a mandatory green certificate for the exercise of the right to work in the Council of Ministers and some ministries, calling on employers and administrators to do the same. This act concerning the life and occupation of a large part of the Bulgarian population does not correspond in any way to the parameters laid down in the signed agreement concerning direct or indirect pressure on citizens to be vaccinated. Unserious argument was that business cannot afford to suffer because of sick employees and will lose its competitiveness. Until now, in the development of the pandemic, there has been no case in our country of any business that has closed due to sick employees. More than that. The mandatory introduction of a health certificate also implies a free alternative to free vaccination, namely at least free tests provided by the requesting party. The inefficiency of the measure, called a green certificate in this form, is currently best demonstrated in Western European countries, where over 80 of the population owns this certificate, but is now subject to additional restrictions. As loyal partners in the coalition agreement Political Party.There is such a people.............. there is such a people........................... that there is no imposition of discriminatory measures limiting the right to work of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from the "There is such a people."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. That concludes on item one of the agenda for today. We're going to point two for today, which is: PROJECT OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importer of the project is the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. I ask the President of the Commission to submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Report of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u127	Wait a minute, Mr. Ananiev. Do they have it all printed? I ask the Quaestors to distribute the Project. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ruler for the organization and activities of the National Assembly. Chapter 1 "General'. The Commission supports the text of the draft name. The Commission shall support the text on the draft article. 1
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u129	Colleagues, I vote on the name of the Rules of Procedure, on the head and article. 1. Vote 172 MPs: for 172, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u130	Article 2? a proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 is created a new para. 2 with the following text: . (2) The need of Members of the National Assembly for access to the building of the National Assembly shall not be restricted. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u131	Discussion under art. Two co-workers? Yeah. Mr. Petrov, come in for a statement. Mr. Ananiev, can you read it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u132	Proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: A new paragraph 2 shall be created with the following text: . (2) The need of Members of the National Assembly for access to the building of the National Assembly shall not be restricted. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[Reply: "Read the main text! "]] Article 2 shall remain the same: The National Assembly shall meet in the National Assembly building in the capital, except when due to exceptional circumstances it decides to meet elsewhere. The Commission shall support the text of the draft article. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u133	Here's your speech, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I made this proposal in view of the fact that at least under the Constitution Bulgaria is a state with parliamentary governance and not a state with executive power over the MPs. Unfortunately, as of the last week, I have seen the representatives of the executive authority try to limit every day the right of specific MPs to access the building of the National Assembly and limit our right to work, for which even our colleagues from the National Assembly have read a statement just now, about which I congratulate them for their opinion and their position. However, in view of the constant attacks to limit the right of Members of the National Assembly to access the building of the National Assembly with the debates on the introduction of the so-called Green Certificate, something which is against the................................................................ That's the point of my proposal. I suggest you here with your vote to support it, as today we are at gunpoint, tomorrow may be one of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u135	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u136	Mr. Chairman, here in this Chamber, this issue has been commented more than once. The problem is that now we are talking about a green certificate, after a while someone outside Bulgaria may decide that only if you are vaccinated should be allowed in. Then someone somewhere, again outside Bulgaria, may decide that you should exercise your own, so to speak, working powers only and only if you have a seventh or eighth dose of the vaccine, if you have five or six doses will not count. Then God knows what could happen. That is precisely why we should put an end to this madness, starting from here, from the Parliament Hall, from the highest legislative and state authority in the country, giving a clear signal that we should not allow any division in Bulgaria. With the non-compliance with this text within the Rules of Procedure, which is actually a security measure for fundamental rights and freedoms, not in the particular case of the legislator, that is, any of the Members of the National Assembly, but in general the fundamental rights and freedoms of each of the Bulgarian citizens. With not having such a text now we are opening Pandora's box, because from now on we can expect any perversions and madness that can give birth to the brain of, I repeat, someone outside our country. Because it is obvious that all these so-called restrictive measures, including the green certificate, are introduced after pressure from the outside. Including this current green certificate, it was introduced two days before the meeting at which President Radev went to Brussels to report that something similar is already happening here, because we were the last country in Europe without such a civilisational choice introduced, as some very much like to use similar clichés. So I call on you to support this extremely practical proposal of my colleague Peter Petrov, because, once again, this is a security measure for each of the Bulgarian citizens. Tomorrow what will eventually happen here will not be allowed to work anywhere else. Can't and can't, and it's under a Constitution written down or any other status to become a condition for work, except in a certain type of occupation that requires you to have a health license. I, as far as I know, for Parliament and for 95% of the employed professions in Bulgaria do not know such a thing to be there. So I call on you for common sense, and especially in the spirit of a statement read just now by "There is such a people" that we welcome to make a decision for the benefit of common sense and for the benefit of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With a desire to bring some clarity to this text. In fact, this text is hollow text, because it is by default so the right of the MP to represent its constituents is given under a Constitution. This text does not change that and no one is actually attacking this right at the moment on any occasion. I agree with the opinion of my fellow Members that, if such a restriction is allowed today, there may be a second reason tomorrow, thirdly, a restriction, respectively, to the suspension of direct democracy. But that's not the case, and that's a naked startling fear that you see someone here right now, in a debate that doesn't affect the green certificate at all, wants to do that, and as a basis, the Constitution is constantly given. And right here as a lawyer, I'd like to make some clarification right in the direction of the Constitution. Because, colleagues, as you have the right to exercise your rights as MPs, which no one contests, other Members of the Constitution also have the right to a healthy, safe working environment, have the right to live. There are people here who have accompanying diseases that have a reason to worry and they don't actually oblige you to inoculate, they don't restrict your access, they don't necessarily make you do anything, they just want to work in a safe environment. And also our Constitution says: examples I can give a lot of people have the right to express their free opinion, but they have an obligation not to harm their dignity. Everyone has the right to seek and receive information, but this cannot be directed against the good name of another. Our rights end where the rights of others begin. You have the right to exercise your constitutional rights, but the fundamental rights of citizens are inalienable, according to art. 57 of our Constitution does not allow abuse of rights as well as their exercise if it prejudices the rights or legitimate interests of others. In the event of a declaration of war, of a military or other emergency, I remind you that we are currently in this situation, a law may temporarily restrict the exercise of individual rights. At the moment, there is no suspension of the Constitution, and there is no act of the legislative authority that is some kind of arbitrariness. There is a Constitution, it has determined when and in what cases certain measures can be taken. They are taken on the basis of the Constitution and in the basis of a law. And this law has given this minister the right to issue such an order, which does not restrict you and your rights in any way. Therefore, being called upon to abide by the Constitution and the Laws, we must make this clarification that we are currently talking about an absolutely normal constitutional order which we are all called to observe, because both I and you have agreed to one thing that is called a public treaty. And it is this public contract that ensures that there will be no conflict between us and that the rights of one person are not violated at the expense of another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u139	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u140	Dear colleague Bozhankov! I would agree with your opinion, but the last six months, that and more, we see the constitutional rights of citizens being constantly violated and this is not done by law. However, as a lawyer you should know that the order of the Minister of Health is a common administrative act with which he derogates rights under the Constitution of Bulgarian citizens. Because the right to work is also guaranteed by the Constitution, but how many people are left unemployed or on unpaid leave because this minister's order appears to be above the Constitution. In any law, Bulgarian citizens have no obligation to prove that they are healthy every day. Those who fear can make their own arrangements. I'd say you've been vaccinated. What's bothering you so much? Thank you. [[Private applause from AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u141	Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u142	Mr. President, I was under the impression that we are discussing the extremely important document on which we will be working in the rest of this Parliament, and at the same time we have seen a declaration by the BSP, which clearly and categorically stated that they are for the introduction of a green certificate. It's a very interesting situation.? I sincerely hope that in their parliamentary group, there will still be sober people who can clearly distinguish themselves from what we have heard. Regarding the definitions of who introduced what and what was not introduced, we have a constitution introducing a state of emergency by parliament. In this case, we're not in it. I'm not gonna quote who. It is a pity that you have claims to legal education and I regret that you are a lawyer or a lawyer and who will suffer from this thing, but there is a difference between an emergency and an emergency... what he has introduced... Do you know the name of the Health Minister? There's a difference! [[Relations from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov.]] There's a difference, that's right. Therefore, in summarizing, I call on sober people to support the proposal not to restrict the access of MPs to parliament, because in this way you are enabling any employer, in any building where his employees work, to carry out dismissals, cuts to this principle. Because when someone has a claim, they will say, "Wait, they are not allowed in parliament, how will I not limit you? " Let us restore normality in our country and not succumb to such suggestions and non-professional statements by people claiming legal education. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u143	No insults, no insults! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u144	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u145	Here you go. You want a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u146	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Bojankov, you mentioned earlier that here in the hall there are people who are afraid. I don't know if you're referring to yourself, in my opinion you're not a cowardly person, I see that you're without a mask, I think you're insanely brave, and I see that you're setting a personal example, which I can only welcome. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS]] By the way, one part of your group too, which I also welcome. By the way, I notice how colleagues here in the hall are wearing masks, and when they go out into the couloirs, they're not wearing masks, probably because the virus may be just wandering around here somewhere, and outside, in the couloirs, it's not like that. Please, let's stop with the hypocrisy. From this highest tribune, we must state clearly and categorically that it is time to bring normal life back to the state and we do not need political speeches here, and we need speeches to restore common sense. That's all it takes. Once again: with this proposal, which you have called the text, we are actually giving a security measure to every Bulgarian because there can be no double standard. There will be no green certificate here and there will be no green certificate anywhere in the country! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u147	Thank you. A line? Procedure: Yavor Bozhankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u148	Dear Mr. President, since I cannot persuade people who do not want to understand the nature of legal procedures, there is an emergency, a declared epidemic situation, in the implementation of the Constitution, which gives certain rights. These rights in no way affect your right to enter and exercise your rights as MPs. But this thing and five times to explain it, you're going to turn the debate in another direction. Therefore, my procedure with you, Mr President, is because I have heard several times qualifications for my legal skills from people who obviously do not have one, I think the only thing that can help is to call security from the north entrance with the thermometer to measure the temperature of the colleague, as he obviously does not know what he is talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u149	Thank you. We're not calling security. [[Elevator bell dings]] but I ask for a good tone of discussion. Mr. Popov, are you here for procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u150	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u151	Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u152	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, I call for us to return to the subject, which is precisely the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which has nothing to do with the other topic that has been raised by this tribune at the moment. It is clear that the People's Representative has direct and direct effect, has the right of access, of course, free.. not only to the National Assembly building, but also to all state institutions. So I propose that we put an end to this debate, which is absolutely unnecessary at this point, and move on to the rules. And please, Mr. President, I would also like to ask you from now on, when it is not on the subject, the colleagues are scattered in their talks on quite other topics, to direct them to speak on the subject and only on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u153	Thank you. Desislava Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u154	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Whether the debate is on the subject of whether it is in connection with a text of the Rules, this is likely to be used for the thesis by one and the other colleagues who claim that one is being deprived of access to the building and the others that equality and respect of the Constitution is being taken away. However, Mr President and honourable Members, this debate would not have been held for the nth consecutive time if the National Assembly had already examined and discussed the draft decision that our parliamentary group of last week had deposited, or the draft decision of the colleagues from.. Democratic Bulgaria, which also last week had deposited. Dear colleagues, not only here in plenary for more than a week, but also there is a debate among the public not about or against a green certificate, not about or against vaccination, but a debate on the equality of MPs and all other citizens. Therefore, I will not be commenting on the particular text proposed by my fellow Members at the time, although I believe that it makes sense to discuss it precisely with regard to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I will just say, Mr President, that as soon as possible the real debate on these two topics begins here in the National Assembly, the sooner we will have a solution and we will save ourselves the next days of inconvenience to explain how the MPs are fundamentally different from ordinary citizens in that they have much more in terms of the implementation of these health security measures for the Bulgarian citizens. This is the main debate, and I appeal, Mr President, as soon as possible to refer to you, if not, we from our parliamentary group next week on the texts of the Rules of Procedure, art. 53 and next, we will submit a proposal for a review of these draft decisions in the next plenary week because the National Assembly cannot stand by themselves outside the debate that is being held in society......... are the same rules for everyone or not, and we have demonstrated for many years that they are not the same, that we are chosen here and everyone else lives by other rules. And I'm asking you to be understanding! This debate needs to be held. This debate must have a solution whether it will be in one direction or another, as we have proposed, or as colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" does not matter at all, but it must be conducted. Otherwise, we are in an absurd situation like the current one again, the Perpetum mobile of the same. Colleagues, I think it is not right for Bulgarian citizens to waste parliamentary time, more than a week for the same thing, finally even without committees being formed, and I suppose that such will soon be formed... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u155	By the lyrics!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u156	...by the regulations that this will be a debate for next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u157	Thank you. For a statement? Here you are, Mr. Manev. On the proposed text, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u158	Of course. Dear colleagues, let's start with this: I have a green certificate. There he is! [[He's showing up on his phone. Claps by GERB-SDS. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u159	That's not the lyrics right now. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u160	No, it's by text. Colleagues of ARCHIVER have tabled a proposal saying: "We will make a security text for the citizens. " Colleagues, I don't agree with you. The introduction of this text on access to the National Assembly without requiring a green certificate is a security measure only for us. Just for us! I had the opportunity to speak out of the stands on this subject before last week. We continue to act like God's chosen ones. We continue to develop the thesis that our rights in this House are something other than the rights of other people. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Offering a text to protect us MPs from a green certificate... If you want to tell me, sir... I don't know who's out there, that my masks are getting in my way. Come and tell me in the stands. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If we hang a text like this that will only protect us from rights, it's not right. If we're going to cancel the green certificate, this green certificate has to be revoked for everyone. [[Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If we're going to accept it, it has to be mandatory for everyone. I am already trying a third speech in this Parliament to tell my colleagues, to all of you: colleagues, the more we pretend to be aliens and gifted with more rights, the more we lose. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the third time I've asked you! If you have anything to say to me, colleague, come and tell me. Don't get hysterical, because you were just talking about the temperature! [[Replications of the National Representative Yavor Bojankov.]] I therefore propose that we do not support this text, because it is only a temporary measure, it is the half measure. And I suggest, if we are going to do something, to look at our two proposals, to make it clear to the Bulgarian citizens about the proposal of "Yes," are we in this room, or are we for the proposal of GERB, which is a proposal that cancels the green certificates until they are done as they should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u162	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u163	Are you for a line? Maybe there's a line. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u164	Mr. Manev, allow me to express my disagreement with you. You don't have a green certificate. You have some temporary certificate that will last for a while, after which you will be certified to enter this room, will depend on their health minister and thanks to what whim and whim he will have then, he will certify your rights to come here, to tell him something, to request something from him. This is something that we from the age and I hope every reasonable person in this room cannot agree with. We, of course, believe that the green certificate should be dropped for everyone. This thing we have tabled as a legislative change that we hope to consider in the near future. However, the eligibility of the exercise of the rights of the MPs is the first and most important step, because without this security measure in the Rules of the National Assembly, we open the door for their health minister to certify us and absolutely any unfit to their fascist rule. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u165	No such qualifications only. Is there another line? Here you go, Dr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u166	Dear colleagues, I am not a lawyer, but the way in which this text is formulated means to make the crossing regime impossible for the entire parliament, because we cannot at the entrance require these cards to let us in. Due to the bankruptcy of the text, I fully agree with Mr. Bojankov that it is absolutely hollow text. He doesn't have any relevance to what you're discussing, and I suggest we don't discuss it anymore. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u167	You're up for a proposal, aren't you? Okay, first it's the back, and then I'll give you an objection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u168	I accept the last speech of my colleague more as a procedure than as a line to me. I'm going to respond to my colleague from rebirth. Dear colleague, you are right, that is, objective truth cannot be concealed in any way. As experienced as we are in talking in this room, in making things a little more difficult for us, we saw it just now. It will really depend on who will be certified and who will not. It will really depend on who and how is certified, who gets rights by what criteria, and this is the real work of the Minister of Health to propose a procedure, to propose a way to deal with the pandemic. This is what we are trying to say with what we are putting forward as a proposal, and speaking from the stands that when you have done a stillborn thing, when you have created measures that cannot work when you have had the opportunity to learn how to do things in the fight against the pandemic, and you have not done it and you have gone to the sea, you cannot ask the people's representatives, the shop vendors, the establishments to comply with stupid rules! This is what we are trying to say not for the first time in this tribune, and therefore I say to you: without fascism, I agree with you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u169	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Before I give Mr. Ademov the floor of objection under procedure, I ask you to stick to the discussion on the proposed texts. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedural proposal is related to the wording of art. Two, which we're discussing right now. This is about where the National Assembly can meet and nothing else. This is not a matter of crossing or green certificate or anything else at all. According to this text, if I am chairman of this temporary committee, because Mr. President does not know in detail the Rules in force, he has allowed the National Assembly to vote on this proposal. This proposal has nothing to do with it, I repeat, it has nothing to do with art. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 It is said where the National Assembly is sitting and you can make a proposal to the National Assembly to meet in the former Party House, you can make a proposal to the National Assembly to meet in the sky, on the moon where you want, but you cannot comment with this text on the access to the National Assembly. The skip regime is a completely different thing and has nothing to do with art. 2. So, Mr. President, please, as you said before I came to the stand, stick to speeches that comment only on what is written in art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I have a question for Dr. Simidchiev: Is your speech as a proposal to end the debates to be interpreted? Yeah. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal to end the debate. Vote 148 MPs: 130 against 14, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are putting an end to the debate on the proposal. Please now proceed to the vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov, which is not supported by the Temporary Commission. It's a vote to support the proposal. They voted 146 MPs: 15 against 108 abstentions. The proposal of the MP Petar Petrov is rejected. Please now vote on the wording of art. 2, as proposed by the Temporary Commission. Vote 170 MPs: 157 against 13, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a procedural proposal to extend the time of the meeting to 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u173	A reverse opinion? I won't. [[Reply from DPS.]] If you would like to do so by the time the Rules are adopted, then you are welcome to make a proposal. All right, we are voting on the proposal of the MP Nastimir Ananiev. Vote 191 MPs: 146, Against 41, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Are there any suggestions to consider until the Rules are completed? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, on the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u174	Chapter II. The Commission supports the text of the draft and the name of Chapter 2. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 6. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 7. Chapter three...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u175	Mr. Ananiev, wait a minute. I'm opening the discussion. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter 2 and the texts of art. 3 to Art. 7 including, as proposed by the Commission. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. The texts proposed by the Commission for the title of Chapter 2 and Articles 3 to 7 have been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u176	Chapter three. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u177	Okay. Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote on the name of Chapter Three. They voted 175 MPs: 175, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposed text has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u178	Under art. 8 was proposed by the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8, para. 7 the text is based on specific themes for analysis and concrete proposals under the legislation. The text is replaced by the text. The second sentence of that provision removes the text of the National Assembly Vice-Presidents. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The President of the National Assembly in the exercise of the powers under art. 77, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 78, p. 1 of the Constitution: 1. distribute the bills and other proposals submitted to the National Assembly between its committees according to their subject; 2. certify the content of the acts adopted by the National Assembly; 3. certify by its signature the stenographic minutes of the meetings of the National Assembly; 4. exercise control over the issue of the Official Gazette; 5. determine the seats in the Chamber for the Members of Parliament, divided by parliamentary groups, for the members of the Council of Ministers, the President and Vice-President of the Republic; 6. ensure the order in the plenary; 7. organise the establishment, implementation and reporting of the budget of the National Assembly; 8. provide the necessary conditions for the activities of the committees of the National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly; 9. approve the classification of the positions in the National Assembly and the number of administration in the National Assembly; 10. appoint and dismiss the Secretary-General of the National Assembly with a period until the election of the President of the next National Assembly, the officials to the President's office, as well as the staff to the chambers of the Vice-Presidents and the Parliamentary Groups on their proposal; appoint and dismiss the members of the Parliamentary Committees on a proposal from their Chair for up to 5 days from the election of the next Chair of the Parliamentary Committee; 11. establish rules for the work of the administration of the National Assembly; 12. establish rules for the organisation and order for carrying out verification of the declarations of parliamentary officials under the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and for establishing conflict of interest; appoint a commission of officials in the administration of the National Assembly, which, based on an assessment of the corruption risk or signal, carries out checks; 13. lay down the rules on the internal order in the buildings of the National Assembly and the use of the material base; 14. control the internal and external security of the National Assembly, which is placed under his authority; 15. monitor compliance with these Rules; 16. performs other functions assigned to him by the Constitution, the laws and these Rules. (2) The Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly shall assist the President and carry out the activities assigned by him. (3) The President of the National Assembly shall, in consultation with the Conference of Presidents, appoint by written order the Vice-Presidents who shall take part in the management of the National Assembly meetings for the relevant week. (4) When the President of the National Assembly decides to entrust the Vice-Presidents with continuous implementation of activities under para. 1, it shall issue a written order to distribute these activities to each other. (5) In the absence of the President of the National Assembly, he shall instruct one of the Vice-Presidents to replace him and, where not done, he shall be replaced by the Vice-President, who shall be broadcast by the largest parliamentary party or coalition. (6) In the event of the Chair's participation in the deliberations on a matter, the meeting shall be chaired by a Vice-President appointed by him. In this case, the President may not lead the meeting before the vote or the conclusion of the discussion on this matter. (7) The President of the National Assembly may establish advice on specific topics for the purpose of analysis and concrete proposals under the legislation. The organisation, activity and composition of the councils shall be determined by rules established by the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I am opening a discussion on the text of art. 8. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday at the discussion in the Legal Committee, we were all under the impression that in this text I am referring to this. 10 in the version of the Commission, it concerns the status of employees between two national meetings. However, as we have written it, the text is running away from the topic, that is, that is to say, that a president will make it almost until the National Assembly is dissolved, he will make the whole term, and we can elect a President in the second month. And it happens that employees will be hired and fired in a month. That's why I'm proposing the editing of t. 10 to acquire the following form: instead of the words the next chairman of the committee concerned, the text to become the chairman of the committee concerned in the next National Assembly. I think this is how the proposal responds to the discussion we had yesterday, and we all supported this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u181	Mr Hamid, we delete the next one and become the chairman of the relevant parliamentary committee in the next National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u182	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u183	Any other speeches? I'm calling off the discussion. Please proceed to the vote on the proposal of the National Representative Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Temporary Commission, for a change in art. 8, para. 7. Vote 177 MPs: 63, against 66, abstention 48. The proposal of Andrej Gurov and a group of MPs is rejected. We are going to vote on the editorial proposal made by the National Representative Hamid Hamid to amend the text of art. 8, para. 1, t. 10, as follows: the following is deleted and at the end of the sentence is added to the next National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u184	No. You didn't read it correctly. Sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u185	Yes, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u186	The words that have been deleted are: the next chairman of the committee concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u187	We delete the next chair of the relevant parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u188	Instead, the chairman of the relevant committee in the next National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u189	Instead, the chairman of the relevant committee in the next National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u190	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u191	We are voting on the proposal made by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. Vote 186 MPs: 111, against 47, abstention 28. The proposal of the MP Hamid Hamid has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u192	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u193	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u194	Colleagues, I suggest a re-vote. Just think about how officials appointed by GERB and DPS in parliament, not meeting the requirements, will stay at work. [[Comments from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u195	Thank you. No arguments and basically re-voting. Please! We are voting again on the proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. They voted 188 MPs: for 105, against 56, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on the text proposed by the Temporary Commission to art. 8, with the already adopted version of Hamid Hamid's proposal in t. 10 to para. 1. Vote 181 MPs: 150 against 8, abstention 23. The proposal was adopted as proposed by the Temporary Commission, with the version adopted on Hamid Hamid's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u196	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 9. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u197	Thank you. Colleagues, I am opening a discussion on the texts of art. Nine and ten of the Project. Statements? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please proceed to the vote of art. 9 and 10 as proposed by the Temporary Commission. Vote 184 MPs: for 183, against no, abstention 1. The projects of art. 9 and 10 as proposed by the Temporary Commission have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u198	Under art. 11 has a proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11, p. 4 at the end shall be a comma and the words shall be added: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u199	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I'm opening a discussion on art. 11. Statements? There aren't any. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov. Vote 181 MPs: 61, against 75, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Please proceed to a vote on the text of art. 11 in the form proposed by the Temporary Commission. Vote 179 MPs: for 179, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted as proposed by the Temporary Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u200	The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 12. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 14. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u201	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I am opening the discussion on the texts of art. Art. 12 to Art. 15 of them included. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter 4 and Article 4. Art. 12 to Art. 15 including as proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 170 MPs: for 170, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted as proposed by the Temporary Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u202	The Commission shall support the text of the draft name of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u203	Thank you. I'm opening the discussion. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are voting on the name of Chapter 5 as proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 173 MPs: for 173, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u204	Under art. 16 there is a proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The National Assembly shall elect permanent and temporary committees from its composition. (2) The Standing Committees of the National Assembly shall be: 1. Budget and Finance Committee; 2. Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs; 3. Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation; 4. Energy Committee; 5. Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; 6. Committee on Foreign Policy; 7. Committee on European Union Affairs; 8. Defence Committee; 9. Internal Security and Public Order Committee; 10. Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Electronic Communications Act; 11. Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry; 12. Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; 13. Committee on Education and Science; 14. Committee on Children, Youth and Sports; 15. Committee on Health; 16. Committee on the Environment and Water; 17. Transport and Communications Committee; 18. Committee on Electronic Governance and Information Technologies; 19. Committee on Culture and Media; 20. Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society; 21. Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens; 22. Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Outside the Country; 23. Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption; 24. It's a tourism committee. (3) The National Assembly may make changes in the type, number and composition of the Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u205	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I am opening a discussion on the proposed text. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech will be very brief and not quite specific on the proposal of the editorial. This is about the following: yesterday at the Commission meeting, we cleared a few technical remarks. It is innovation and climate that has been cleared of the name of the previous committees, since it is no longer considered necessary to be in them, as the structure of the Council of Ministers is also changing. I have another question, and if someone can answer me, I would be grateful: the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forests remains in its old name, although it is already the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, does this mean that the Prime Minister to whom the Executive Forest Agency is already subordinate, as well as the forestry policy, will be there under blitzcontrol and will answer to this committee if you can answer me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u207	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Petrov is for speech, and the next one is Mrs. Angelkova's. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! During the speech of colleague Gajev. Yes, on behalf of the Energy and Climate Committee, we removed the climate, although in the new structure of the Council of Ministers was created, so I will call it Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Change. Yesterday, while we were at the Commission, I remembered the speech of colleague Lyuben Dilov, who said he would immediately write to this Deputy Prime Minister on climate change. If colleague Dilov is here, he can write to him, but I want to ask: in which committee can we listen to this Deputy Prime Minister on climate change? That is why I made a proposal yesterday in the name of the Committee on Environment and Water to include the climate in order to ensure that this Deputy Prime Minister of Climate Change will still be able to be called to report in at least one committee and not just to smack into the breasts, colleagues from the "Democratic Bulgaria" that we have some deputy prime minister. I am proposing: after the name of the Committee on Energy and Climate is dropped, to change the name of the Commission on Energy and Climate. 16 The Committee on the Environment and Waters should also include the climate for these considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u209	Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Petrov, let us be clear, the committees in the Bulgarian Parliament can call any minister, deputy prime minister, prime minister, if they consider that the specific topic of the discussion, the specific agenda suggests this. The fact that the word "something" is not there does not mean that any committee cannot call the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister. This is a fundamental constitutional situation. So I suggest that this type of discussion should not lead them out of the parliamentary tribune. Something written in the Constitution is applied regardless of what the Rules say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u211	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Another line? I won't. Is there a hole? I won't. Mr. Hamid, please come in as per procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Slavov has exhausted some of my procedure. My request to you is that you do not allow the debate to go in a direction that is not on the subject. All these questions Mr. Gajev is asking, and Mr. Gajev himself is an experienced MP and he knows that this is settled under parliamentary control and under blitzcontrol, so he doesn't belong in this text at all. Let us not take away from the time of the MPs and not delay the debate with topics which do not belong here at all, but are well settled further in the Rules. This is my procedure for you not to allow a debate outside the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u213	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say that we will support the establishment of a permanent Committee on Tourism. Tourism is a key sector for the Bulgarian economy one of the most affected by the Kovid pandemic. It is very important to achieve the 2019 levels of over 9 million and 300,000 foreign tourists and 27 million overnights, to take a number of measures and urgent action by the regular cabinet. One of the actions to be taken, respectively, and a bill to be tabled, is related to the cancellation and revision of the amendment, which was adopted on a proposal from MPS and "There is such a people" in the vote on the update of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely one of the key measures for support of the sector - EUR 35 per seat to be given only to Bulgarian air carriers. The measure is discriminatory and is extremely limited to the possibility of negotiations and talks by the sector at the moment so that both winter and summer season can be guaranteed. The situation is extremely difficult and I believe that this should be one of the main and first tasks of this committee. Of course, changes to the Tourism Act, the creation of a guarantee fund and many others that should support the development of the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u215	Thank you. A line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman! Executive power has clearly shown that there is a will for e-government, for digitalisation and for innovation. It is also time for parliament to enter its liding function and demonstrate respect for both the adoption of bills and the control of the two most important ministries. There is no way to talk about electronic technology only when it comes to lawmakers being quarantined. It is high time we stopped seeing Wi-Fi passwords glued to a wall in the parliament building, and not only. It's high time we didn't actually miss this train, the train that can help us, the train that can help us with more innovation. Therefore, I believe that the Commission on Electronic Governance and Information Technology must really exist, it must develop and it must work. So we support the proposal as it is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u217	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov to supplement the item. 16 with the words "air-conditioned." Vote 166 MPs: 44, against 73, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of art. 16 as proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 165 MPs: 165, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u218	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 has a proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 is created a new para. 4 with the following text: The positions of the parliamentary committees shall be distributed in proportion among the parliamentary parties represented on the basis of their representation in the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) Each Member of the National Assembly may be elected at most in two Standing Committees. (2) Each Member of the National Assembly may be elected to the management of only one Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u219	I'm opening the discussion under art. 17. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I participate in the National Assembly for the first time, but I am familiar with a long-standing parliamentary tradition that always until now in the parliamentary committees, their leadership has also provided the opposition parties with the opportunity to receive the leadership of one of the permanent parliamentary committees according to an agreement between the various parliamentary parties. Unfortunately, however, the last week what I see is that the coalition of the ruling majority is thus making an internal distribution only between them to the management of all the permanent parliamentary committees and will prevent opposition parties from getting the leadership of at least one parliamentary committee. This is something that we cannot agree with since the National Assembly still has a representativeness which, in my opinion, should not be transferred by the executive authority. There they can distribute by formulas 4 to 3, to 2, to 1 and as they decide, but still the parliament has not mastered it all. There are also three opposition parties in parliament and should each be given the opportunity to lead at least one of the permanent committees. Again, as has always been, following the long-standing parliamentary traditions, which I said yesterday, and other colleagues from the opposition, for example, Commissioner Tsonev, urged the President that they should be respected, and I call on the MPs. My proposal yesterday, which I support at the moment, is to provide an opportunity in the Rules and the opposition parties to receive the leadership of at least one parliamentary committee. I believe that now, with our vote, each of us will clearly show whether he supports the principle of representativeness in the National Assembly or supports the principle of coalition agreements to be made by the executive in the legislative power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u221	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u222	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Petrov, I disagree with you, and I believe that the majority in this Parliament wants to first limit our entry into the building, and now it wants not to give us even a weak committee. That's what you have to say. It would be nice for the majority to come up with a summary statement and say: the opposition is time to be expelled, there is no place in parliament. It's the best thing to do. Be honest and say it. You will not enter, we will not give you committees, we are the new majority, we are the new GERB in this Parliament, there will be nothing for the opposition. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u223	No qualifications, please. Are there any other lines to Mr. Petrov's statement? I won't. A hole? I won't. To speak, please come in for Ekaterina Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to take a position on art. 17, para. 3. I see it's a proposal from a group of MPs that has been accepted. Colleagues, the adoption of this proposal violates another tradition in parliament. It was never the parliament's leadership that the President and Vice-Presidents were able to participate in the leadership and committees. Obviously, by binding the two proposals, our proposal is in art. 18. It is quite similar to the proposal of rebirth. Personally, it's a surprise to me that I'm going to agree to rebirth. On many of their topics, I think completely differently, but in this case, by linking the two proposals, the adoption of the proposal for this, the parliament's leadership is able to participate in the committee's management, which will happen for the first time. For the first time, there will also be an inability to participate the opposition in the committee's leadership. The other proposals also mean and I draw conclusions that for me this majority will try in every way to limit the opposition's vote. It should also limit or remove some places of control and transparency in the work of this Parliament despite requests that we will be transparent that we will become a parliamentary republic. Yesterday it was seen that the spokesman of the Council of Ministers ordered us to change the decision, you changed it today and with all the restrictions you foresee about the opposition, it means that everything you spoke in this room and before the elections were just words. In fact, you are trying to limit parliamentary democracy to these proposals. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u225	Philip Popov's line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u226	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, it is not true that this is a precedent in parliamentary history. If memory serves, since 2014, you have introduced vice-presidents or parliament's leadership or chair to be also chairman of the relevant committee. Each Member of the National Assembly, before being anyone in this Parliament, either President or Vice-President of the National Assembly, has absolutely all the rights as all the other Members of the National Assembly. Whether it will be proposed by its parliamentary group, however, to take such a governing position in the relevant committee, is already a matter of decision of the parliamentary group itself, and subsequently of the plenary. So make a reference to this is not a precedent. There's been an opportunity. I don't think there's anything against parliamentaryism, on the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u227	Thank you. The line of Atanas Slavov is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u228	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Ms. Zaharieva, indeed, as my colleague Popov said, has a parliamentary tradition older, of course, from the time of GERB. For example, during the 38th National Assembly, the glorious government of the United Democratic Forces, the President of the Parliament, was President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. I mean, there's such a tradition. Some of the political forces here have a history further back in time. Two-three-five-ten years, and it is good to know the whole parliamentary tradition. We have proposed this text for a very simple reason. Our group this time, unfortunately, is 16 people we were 34, but we have to make the most of the capacity of our members. I hope we get support in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u229	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Another line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u230	Mr. Slavov, I understand the desire of each member of your group to be in the leadership of something, and I understand that once you do not give an opportunity to any opposition committee, you will not have enough people. I understand the need to cancel para. 3. I think that's how much we have capacity. I know that. It is obvious that since you will not give any leadership position in any committee to the opposition, you will not have enough people to share the leadership positions in the committees. For this reason art. 17, para. 3 has to be dropped. That's it. lt's very simple.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Another statement? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! A few times in today's day there was a restoration of parliamentaryism. Here today, young Members, who are first in the National Assembly, will take the first real step towards restoring parliamentaryism with your vote. Yesterday, at the Commission meeting, some colleagues reacted that I have used irony in my support, yes. Our parliamentary group will not support this proposal. This text has not been submitted by accident, colleagues. This text is tabled with the idea that there are 240 MPs here. This text is introduced so that there is no concentration of all power in parliament in several people, and that all other MPs turn, as they say on the street, into button pushers. This text, colleagues, which has been submitted by my friend Mr. Slavov, has eight addressees - eight people are potential committee chairmen and in the coming days we will see how many of them will become committee chairmen. But you will object that such a ban was not even in the dark communist regime. Because remember, there was a Secretary General of BCP at the same time was Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and was Chairman of the State Council of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. Perhaps these are Mr. Slavov's motives for submitting such a proposal. That's the point. My recommendation is, Mr. Slavov, to submit an offer to cancel para. 2 of the same text. Then, for example, Mrs Nalbant will be able to, do not take the example, he will be able to lead the Internal Security and Public Order Committee on Wednesday, on Thursday, to lead the Education Committee, and on Friday after the control, he can also lead the Committee on Culture and Media. Cancel this text! Let three people chair all the committees, and everyone else will push the buttons. This is not serious, guys. This is not a restoration of democracy. It's an escape from democracy. That's why we won't support him. This issue was raised in the previous National Assembly. Then you didn't meet support. Most likely, however, there are some coalition talks and some coalition partners will be forced to support it, but, colleagues, this is not good for parliamentaryism. It is not good for the development of democracy in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u233	Thank you. Are there any lines for Mr. Hamid? I won't. Other statements under art. 17? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Certainly some of the colleagues do not like the proportionality of the distribution of seats in parliament, because most MPs have the largest party, then the second party, the third, the fourth, the fifth. This shows who has what capacity and potential and who has managed to gain the trust of Bulgarian citizens. In this sense, the committees are a reflection of this vote, which has been given by the Bulgarian people, it has not fallen out of the sky, and to bring in some subjective qualitative criterion here: Our group is the smartest and therefore there should be as many MPs, as many chairmen of the committees, it seems to me a slight distortion of reality, because if your group were so smart, it would be of at least 50, 60, 80, 100, 120 people. Otherwise, I am sure that every parliamentary group in this National Assembly will say that it is the smartest. I don't know a parliamentary group that says, "We, because we're stupider, don't give us any committees." The chairmanship of a committee does not in any way distinguish the President from the members of the committee, that is absolutely clear. Any member of a committee can do what the President is doing, but this shows an attitude towards the vote of the Bulgarian voters, this shows an attitude towards the opposition and if you were accusing us here of some kind of... I remember in the discussions on the Rules of Procedure in the Forty-fourth National Assembly what zealous speeches were held by the colleagues of the BSP, now they cry out: but so it is, and I do not know when. If you are making any change to transparency, the chairman of the committee has a little more power than the members, because he can easily reach certain information in the ministries. That means control. Isn't it your idea to rule and we to control?! That's the idea of democracy. Since you have entered into some kind of bargain under the scheme, what is it with you there, 10-4-2-1-5, now give the committees so to do them. But then it turns out that mathematics cannot happen because you are four formations of which some coalitions, and it becomes 10 parties that need to be settled somewhere. That's what they call a party assignment. This is not called something related to Parliament's work with better work. Isn't this where the teams were supposed to be made?! You make your A team, maybe these are your people who are for A team, but this is not A team of Bulgaria. You will appoint them there on a party basis, then you will return to the party meetings and say: here we have two committee chairmen, the others will say: we have four, did you see how we played them, but this has nothing to do with parliamentaryism. So don't fool people! If you've decided to do it, do it, but tell the truth! Say: we need pawns, we need each of us to have a pagon, otherwise here two of the parties are with leaders in resignation, they will take them down if they don't get to win such pawns! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Say so! Everything else is: we are for parliamentaryism! It's not about parliamentary work! [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] To the presidency, Mr. Chenchev! You want to be presidents, bosses! That's nice, but the superiors have responsibilities and you'll soon begin to understand it, some of you may have already understood it, but you're not lying to people! No contribution to parliamentaryism is to deprive the opposition of presidency in parliamentary committees and to line you up in them. That's what they call it, get up and let me sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u235	The line of Atanas Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u236	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Colleague Bikov, democracy and responsibility is that when you lose elections, you resign. This is the European model of governance that we are seeking. In the same year GERB lost three choices, even four with the President, there was no resignation, so so far with who has won how much and how much he has managed. [[Noise and lines.]] When GERB ruled, how many committees did the opposition have? [[(Reply from ……]] A little! [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] No one in the parliamentary majority has said that the opposition will have no committees, on the contrary there will be, and this is part of good parliamentary practice. Nobody talks about the opposition's voice being blocked! There will certainly be a division of committees and among the opposition. Please do not speculate on this subject! I'm just glad that Mr. Bikov, as well as he did in the government, is doing just as well now in opposition. He's just an eloquent speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u237	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other lines to Mr. Bikov? Mr. Ganev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u238	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Bikov, I think you should have asked, as was said by those who spoke before you, because they are the smartest and most beautiful, are they still the smartest and the most beautiful? And in this regard, I would also like to know, so that they do not stall from the government and delay the question: will there be opposition committees, or will there not be a... this is an important moment! And not here to define and say that there will be and in exactly one day to give the committees only to the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u239	Thank you. Another line? I won't. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Slavov, this year we won the elections on April 4th, then you remember here that for one night on your knee you threw the Election Code, put in machines, so we wondered until a few days ago what to do with them. You have deprived, by the way, of a voice a number of Bulgarian citizens who are worried about voting on machines and this is an obvious fact, you have achieved the lowest turnout of two elections in a row. Summer we shouted that people were at sea, but winter was not at the sea.. they did not vote again. In those two choices, we were photofinishing with the ruling party. So if you count our 500,000 votes as a loss, I don't know how... [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Six hundred thousand, I'm sorry. ...reading your parents there 170 grand? Because 600,000 votes at Boyko Rashkov and machines, and all kinds of shit that happened in those elections, seems like a good result. As far as the proportion is concerned, you yourself have proportionately distributed the Council of Ministers. You were led by some kind of proportionality. Why didn't you decide to do A team so there wouldn't be proportions to take you six or seven ministries, and we keep the Change taking two?! Because! There you have decided to do mathematical proportions, now you want to transfer them to parliament, and in Parliament you obviously cannot divide 240 into four, which is not such a complex task, but it makes it difficult for you, because the desire is great. And when the desire becomes greater than the possibilities, one enters the land of wonders and begins to.. and not man, but a group of people or community, fantasizes and thinks that by putting on two pagons and already being a general. Well, it's not! Anyone can wear two pagons, but not everyone becomes a general. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Radev is a general, you can ask him because you're close. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u241	Thank you for your speech, Mr. Bikov. Prof. Mihaylov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is entirely to you. We are currently discussing Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask you very much not to give the opportunity, and everyone here has expressed their approval to you as a new chairman, as a young man, to discuss A teams, B teams, election analysis, football... It's just a verbal salad already working. Instead of discussing the Rules, we made here from the position of Mr. Bikov's election analysis, which teams loves which teams. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] I know you have a fondness for football and the Pagons, but the National Assembly doesn't care about that right now, Mr. Bikov. Please, a little more serious! We're sitting here making rules, and you allow it, Mr. Chairman. Please, please! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u243	Thank you. Let's stick to the discussion. It really is. There's a statement from Hristo Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u244	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're doing a little bit of the substance.... my suggestion is to be under art. Art. 17 and art. 18, so they kind of merged. But I will make a first comment on the proposal of Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov, which is supported by the Commission, namely: the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly can not be elected in the management of the parliamentary committees. I made the same statement yesterday to the committee itself. Do I need to take you back to art. 8, in which are the powers and duties of the Member of the National Assembly, which are all 16 points?! Now, in addition to fulfilling these 16 points, the majority here wants to make you obviously enter committee and perform more duties. I hope one person succeeds so that he can react to all of this, because it's a lot of work, not that I doubt you'll be able to handle it, but it just gets very stressful, and when there's a lot of work, one misses. So it's not good that this is happening. As we understand it, the proposal for change is not a change to something new, but a change to the return of something long forgotten and old by the parties of change, which have a longer parliamentary history, as one of the negotiators was quoted. I would therefore like to make a purely procedural editorial proposal, namely to create a new para. 3: The Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly cannot be elected in the management of the Standing Committees. Let the entire House show its attitude to this question......................................................................................... 17, which I think will become an even bigger problem. Therefore, I beg you to put to the vote the text for dropping out of para. 3, to see the majority in the Chamber and if the majority in the Chamber judge para. 3 drop out and respectively the Vice-Presidents and the Chair may be the heads of permanent committees. But if the majority decides that it is good to keep this restriction, then it remains only the text that has been in the Rules so far. As for the division of committees, we thought we would see something new in this Parliament. We've obviously been sticking to all the old practices since 1990. I guess the change is gone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u245	Is there a line to Mr. Gajev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I am making a reverse proposal because Mr. Gazhev's proposal is not editorial and should not be allowed at all. It's unacceptable for a vote. Secondly, the positions of all parliamentary groups present are clear, of all MPs. I propose an end to the debate on this point because, honourable Members, the committees have long since passed [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] This is about something completely, completely different, not what you're talking about. Out of respect for you, the President of the National Assembly obviously does not take your floor away, although you are not on the agenda. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u247	Is there a reverse opinion on the proposal to end the debate? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u248	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I understand the desire of the ruling coalition to bring forward BSP's colleague to end discussions on something as important for Bulgarian parliamentaryism as the distribution of committee guides. I am making a reverse proposal that the discussions should not stop, as it is right for the public and now we should resolve this issue, everyone should express their opinion and see, which was also spoken by colleague Bikov, whether the ruling majority will respect the principles of Bulgarian parliamentaryism, or will carry the formulas of government. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I will only correct it: to carry them only among their parties, and not entirely among all the parties in parliament, which is my proposal for change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u249	Thank you. Let us vote on the proposal to end the discussions. Vote 191 MPs: 105, against 65, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. We're calling off the discussion under art. 17. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov to create a new paragraph, which is not supported by the Temporary Commission. They voted 193 MPs: for 83, against 87, abstention 23. The proposal of the MP Petar Petrov is not accepted. I also put to the vote the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev for the creation of para. 3 with text: The Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly cannot be elected in the management of the Standing Committees. They voted 183 MPs: for 70, against 91, abstention 22. The proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev has been rejected. We are going to vote on the text of art. 17, as proposed by the Temporary Commission. Vote 194 MPs: 107 against 85, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted in the manner proposed by the Temporary Commission. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. I'm offering you art. 18, 19 and 20 to offer them together.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u250	Under art. 18 has a proposal from the MP Hristo Gazhev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 18. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 19. Under art. 20 has a proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 20, para. The second sentence is created: "The report on the costs incurred is published on the Commission's website of the National Assembly at the end of each session. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u251	I open discussions on the provisions of art. 18, 19 and 20 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Here you go. Statements? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please proceed to the vote. Under art. 18 We vote on the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev, which is not supported by the Temporary Commission. Vote 180 MPs: 77 against 86, abstention 17. The proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev is rejected. We are voting on the main text of art. 18, as proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 171 MPs: 111, against 42, abstention 18. The proposal is adopted in the manner proposed by the Temporary Commission. We're going to vote on art. 19 in the form proposed by the Temporary Commission. Vote 179 MPs: 175 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please vote art. 20 The proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev for addition to para. 2, which is not supported by the Temporary Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 49, against 80, abstention 47. The motion is rejected. We are going to vote on the text of art. 20, as proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 129 against 11, abstention 5. The proposal is adopted as proposed by the Temporary Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u252	Under art. 21 has a proposal of the MP Elena Guncheva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21, para. 3, p. 1 text to change, such as from the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, to become a conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, dropping the words from the fight against corruption. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21, para. the second sentence is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21, para. 4 t. 2 is out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. (1) Permanent committees may form subcommittees from their composition, as well as working groups. (2) The Committee on Budget and Finance shall establish a permanent subcommittee for the control of public funds. (3) The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs shall be set up a permanent subcommittee for monitoring and analysis of legislation in accordance with the principles and regulations of the European Union and international human rights protection and fundamental freedoms rules and for analysing the legal effects of the Constitutional Court decisions. (4) The Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation shall be set up by a permanent subcommittee to monitor the activities in the field of consumer protection and the restriction of monopolies. (5) The Energy Commission shall be set up with a standing subcommittee to monitor the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. (6) The Committee on European Union Affairs shall be set up by a permanent subcommittee to control the management of European funds. (7) The Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications and the subcommittee under para. Six are formed on a parietal principle. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act shall be chaired alternately for a parliamentary session according to the number of parliamentary groups. (8) The Standing Committees may set up public councils by representatives of civil organisations to ask them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u253	I open discussions on the text of art. 21. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u254	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I would like to withdraw what I and my colleague Ivan Dimitrov have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u255	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Please let us put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Elena Guncheva, not supported by the Temporary Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 30, against 79, abstention 39. The motion is rejected. Please proceed to a vote on the text of art. 21 as proposed by the Temporary Commission. They voted 134 MPs: 121, against 13, no abstentions. The proposal shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 21 [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Mrs. Atanasova, do you want a break? Okay. Timeout 30 minutes to 2:35 p.m. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u256	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's continue with art. 22. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u257	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 22. Proposal of the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 23: Art. 23. The Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption: 1. every quarter requires a report from the Commission to counter corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property and hold hearings of the President and its members; 2. in the event of a corruption alert or established evidence of corruption, the competent authorities shall refer; 3. conduct an analysis and evaluation of the activities of the bodies implementing the state policy against corruption and prepare summary reports; 4. hold discussions with the Chief Prosecutor and the Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council regarding the fight against corruption; 5. conduct an analysis of the activities of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council and the Prosecutor's Office regarding the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u258	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any speeches. Please vote on the proposal and opinion of the Temporary Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 125, against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u259	Under art. 23 There is a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 23, which becomes art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The subcommittee for the control of public funds shall consider: 1. consolidated annual report on internal control in the public sector under art. 20, para. 2 of the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector and the Opinion of the Court of Auditors; 2. the annual report on financial management and control and internal audit of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 20, para. 3 of the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector and the Opinion of the Court of Auditors; 3. the report on the state of financial management and control and internal audit of the Court of Auditors under art. 20, para. 4 of the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act; 4. reports on the implementation of certain budgets and programmes drawn up by the chief authorising officers with a budget at the request of the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance within the time limits set in the request. (2) The Chair of the Court of Auditors and the Minister of Finance or their alternates and other persons shall take part in the meetings of the subcommittee at the invitation of the Chair of the subcommittee. (3) After the discussion of the reports and the reports under para. 1 The Chair of the subcommittee shall draw up a report assessing the implementation of the budget to be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u260	I shall put to the vote the proposal for a new article. Art. 23, Art. 24. Vote 160 MPs: 144 against 14, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u261	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 24, which becomes Art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u262	Please vote art. 24, which becomes Art. 25. Vote 160 MPs: 158, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u263	Under art. 25 there is a proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. 25, which becomes art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The Standing Committees shall examine bills, the annual programme under art. 115, draft decisions, declarations and addresses and other proposals distributed to them by the President of the National Assembly, draw up reports, proposals and opinions on them. (2) The Standing Committees may award under the conditions of art. 17 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly carrying out a follow-up assessment of the impact of the laws aimed at establishing their effectiveness and level of achievement of the objectives. (3) The Standing Committees shall, in accordance with their own subject-matter, monitor the extent of absorption and the appropriate and lawful spending of funds and programmes of the European Union by providing information to the subcommittee on the management of European funds. (4) The Standing Committees shall, in accordance with their subject-matter, monitor the lawful and appropriate spending of the State budget by providing the information received to the subcommittee on public funds control, as well as to the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. (5) In order to carry out their duties under the previous paragraphs, the Standing Committees may, in addition to the possibility of attracting experts in the field concerned, request a hearing of the relevant Minister of Resources on specific matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u264	For speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u265	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I draw your attention to the proposal made by the MPs Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihaylov, and it is for dropping out of para. Art. 2 of art. 25. Article 25 reads: The drafts shall be dealt with in the first vote following a public discussion by the committee responsible and the publication of a report with the results thereof on the website of the committee concerned on the website of the National Assembly. The report shall be published within three days of the hearing. I remember in the 45th and 46th National Assembly the violent debates when we discussed the Rules and when the changes were being made. This was one of the main arguments of everyone who declared that they wanted a change in the work of the National Assembly, namely they tried to convince us and convinced all the other MPs who were not aware of the meaning of this paragraph, that in order to have publicity and transparency in discussing the submitted bills, there must be a public discussion which the committee responsible would be obliged to hold and the result of which public discussion would be announced in advance before the first vote of the relevant draft in the committee. With the removal of this article, either the need for transparency and publicity is removed or the desire of the majority to look at the text at first reading in the committee, after there is a report on the attitude of civil organisations and citizens, or we are trying to continue the change without citizens participating in it. Each of these hypotheses is unacceptable to me. I propose that the text remain as it is currently in art. 25. There is another proposal, which is from colleagues Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov, and it is for the annulment of para. 2 and its transfer to art. 76, where maybe the systematic place of this text is. To my surprise, however, it is not supported by the Commission. I mean, if we remove para now. 2 and if in art. 76 It does not receive the approval of the majority, means that the majority of the people who are in charge or not at the moment in this National Assembly will give up public discussions, for which so much is yelling, screaming and sitting until 12, to 11 and I do not remember how long. Perhaps those who were in the previous two National Assemblys know. And in this regard, I would like to remind you of something. In the previous National Assembly, Mrs. Maya Manolova, as a representative of a loudly proclaimed civil organisation involved in the then majority, did her best to have enough public public discussions and was the first MP to break this principle in his own committee. She decided that it was much easier together with the Commission's first meeting when the bill was voted, to somehow write that it was past and public discussion, as is actually the amendment under art. 73, which Mrs. Miteva proposes. That is, we are offered no prior public discussion, no obligation to conduct a preliminary discussion by the committee responsible and a report of this discussion before it is seen and discussed at first reading in the committee a specific decision, a declaration and a bill. I believe that this is contrary to the pre-declared intentions to be public, to do things transparently for citizens and to make a real change. Because I want to make a change and make it for the better. Otherwise we're really going back to a place where you don't want to be where we don't want to be like a society. I suggest you reconsider this proposal, withdraw it, and remain the text in the version that is under the existing Rules, that is to say, no dropping of para. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u267	Thank you, Madam President. I'll spare Mrs. Miteva the out. Mrs. Kirova, talk to your colleagues from the Commission. We discussed that yesterday. This text is in art. 73, p. You can take a look at it for the public discussion. I don't understand this debate. Why are we wasting everyone's time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u268	Another line? A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u269	As you wish. Mr. Ananiev, in Al. 2 has an obligation from the committee responsible. Until in art. 30 Texts allow citizens to be present. They are invited by MPs. Maybe we won't invite them, maybe they won't be there. Alinea 2 makes sense. The point is to have a public discussion and to be able to attend all those who think they are interested and the report of this discussion to be published before the first reading of the relevant bill in the committee. Until in art. 30 citizens have the right to attend.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u270	Mrs. Miteva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u271	My fellow Members, I wasn't going to take the floor, but I can't. Indeed, we have introduced these discussions to the 45th National Assembly. Unfortunately, maybe we didn't get a good look at them. We admit it now. We have the courage to do it. The point of the discussions is that when they are produced, all their opinions should be summarized. The drafts respectively, as it is only about drafts,.. does not apply to statements or decisions of the National Assembly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Such public discussions are being made for all the bills of the Council of Ministers, so there is no need to do this a second time in the National Assembly. It made sense perhaps only for the bills of the MPs, but here is the question: if this public discussion is negative and there are negative opinions, who will summarize it? Can the bill be tabled at all and why it was tabled by the MP, and then does it have to reflect the remarks from the public discussion, correct its bill and submit it this way? That's the point of public discussion. At the same time, we have a constitutional provision and we cannot hinder the legislative initiative of the MP and restrict it from what it should submit to the National Assembly. Therefore, since we also faced this text in the 46th National Assembly and it turns out that we are doing two discussions of a draft of different meetings in general with the same round of persons, we have decided to propose a change by proposing public discussion to be together with the first vote, as the bills after their entry and distribution by the President of the National Assembly have access to them on the website of the National Assembly, all interested parties can give their opinions. We have explicitly provided for a deadline for the chairman of the committee responsible to give these organisations. The law may then be dealt with in the first vote after that period has expired after those opinions have been received, if any, within the specified time limit and after all those interested organisations which have given their views have been invited to the committee meeting. That is, without these conditions being met, there is no way to hold the first discussion of the bill. Individually, of course, anyone else may ask to be present again... even if they did not take part in the bill to attend the meeting as well. I mean, it's open. We even add that the report of the committee for the first vote contains the results of this discussion plus the assessment of compliance of the law with the Law on Legislative Acts and the Decree on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts in order to make it clear whether this law should continue or whether it should be stopped at the first vote by the chairman of the committee responsible with the return of importers to correct their bill. I think all the guarantees are given. The procedure has already been cleared and I believe that this will be the more working mechanism than what has been envisaged so far, and we ourselves in the Commission have been wondering how to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Are there lines? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u273	I agree with Mrs. Miteva that this has already been discussed and talks were held at the 46th National Assembly when we changed the loudly adopted Rules in the 45th and it turned out that we were wrong. Turns out we were wrong at a 45th National Assembly. Forgive me if I don't fully trust this kind of expertise. Yes, this applies only to the bills submitted by the Members of the National Assembly. But do you think that the negative opinion of public consultation is sufficient to prevent the bill from being tabled? We are not talking about a parliament that will only work lobbying amendments or make populistic laws. Our responsibility is to hear the opinion of society. Whether we comply with it depends on the way we vote and whether we have the courage to say: "No, we do not agree! You are wrong, we are in charge, we are taking responsibility. I think it is these laws and bills that someone writes on his knee and decides he is a great lawmaker and does not go through the expertise of the ministries because you know what happens to the bills written by many of the MPs, and what is sometimes their purpose. I think it will avoid both lobbying and quite simply there will be an opportunity to escape from general populism to do only things that are liked and applauded by the audience, but do not give a good result in the management of the state. I insist that this member remain, but of course the House decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Any other lines? Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u275	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm not gonna argue where the place is, whether it's in art. 25, para. Article 2, whether or not in art. 73, para. 10, which, in fact, Mrs. Kirova, Mrs. Miteva proposes, and Mr. Slavov proposes that only the public discussion with this amendment be dropped at all. At least it's my report, but it doesn't matter who's offering. The point is that we, from the very strong ambition in the previous parliaments not only have public discussion before first reading and voting in the committee, as Mrs Kirova explained, then we had another ambition and we had even proposed such things. And this is every national representative who is an importer to declare who worked this bill, what expertise he used, whether he used companies in whose interest the bill is actually proposed. We limited it to a public discussion to hear the experts to hear the public to hear the stakeholders. We are now reducing this public discussion simply as part of the committee's first reading report. Obviously, of course, you'll decide, but maybe when we get to art. 73, para. 10, which you are proposing, let us consider, however, whether or not we should divide the two reports. First, the report shall be published within three days as currently in art. 25, para. 2. In the end, honourable Members, despite the declaration of many places in these Rules, when we get there, I will point them out to you, in fact, we from transparency, from control, the return of parliamentaryism, as if we were retreating from where we were to the previous two parliaments and to the previous parliaments. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 3, I'll go back, we didn't take the floor. I don't know why you didn't take Hristo Gajev. He had proposed to publish a report of committee chairmen on the costs of the committee. That wasn't accepted by you. All the proposals that are being made are in the opposite direction from what you declare in these Rules. [[Heckling]] I'm not gonna argue where he is. 73 is better.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u276	Mrs. Zaharieva, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u277	But think there, because this is a retreat of even the little we have achieved in the previous parliaments in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u278	Thank you. Third line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Miteva, I agree for a large part, but not in everything you say. We just have to put it to ourselves in a straight text that it actually returns two votes in a public discussion and first reading at once. So all the public consultation requests that we had in the 45th and 46th National Assembly go to history. Some people, by the way, have made a political career, even entered this room with promises of more transparency, more public control over the work of the National Assembly and the MPs and, ultimately, these same people are now offering to drop it. So instead of going to greater transparency and greater public control, we are actually going back to the good old practice to pass everything in one vote at first reading. I understand that as governors this will be easier for you, but from the point of view of what you all promised during your campaigns that there will be greater transparency, greater accountability and greater control, you are doing exactly the opposite right now. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u280	Thank you. Mrs. Miteva, do you have a jacket? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u281	I don't agree that this is a retreat and going back because I think it's also in art. Article 30, and in art. 73 We have provided for sufficient mechanisms which oblige committee chairmen to request opinions from all interested, including clear deadlines, including a mandatory requirement for an opinion on the parliamentary bills by the Council of Ministers and the relevant ministers. That thing wasn't there until recently. Subject to all these provisions, I think that if the report is really done as we see it now in art. 73, in a completely different way will look both the reports and the work of Parliament's parliamentary committees. I do not believe that this is a limitation of transparency, on the contrary to transparency, both in the 45th and in the 46th Parliament, and now with these rules we are opening it more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u283	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I only note that there is a proposal made by the National Representative Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs in art. 25, new Art. 26, add para. 6, which has not been reported by the Commission's proposal. So please vote to add para. 6. It's obviously a technical error. [[The National Representative Miroslav Ivanov specified with the rapporteur Nastimir Ananiev.]] I understand. I'm withdrawing my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u284	Have you specified?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u286	Thank you. Speech "Krum Zarkov."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u287	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I think that we should congratulate Mrs Kirova that she paid attention to this issue and to this text, as well as to the Commission, that she had reasoned on it, because it is nothing less than the most important activity of a National Assembly, namely the adoption of bills. However, the fact is that this provision, this article does not treat this issue. He treats what permanent committees do. Importing, discussing and voting on bills is in the following chapter. But it was placed here two people's meetings ago for a very important reason to stop it, I would call it a practice of legislation. And we have to understand what she was coming from. This is not a question for the opposition, it is a question for our new majority. It came from two facts. One was that the misunderstandings of the complex coalition that ran back then in the Council of Ministers were often passed through MPs who wore something that could not go through the co-ordination procedures that required that procedure. And that's a lesson. The second lesson is the more delicate, lobbying texts that were being passed in haste so as not to give time to see that they are not actually protecting public but private interest. This is about time, ladies and gentlemen of the House. This public discussion was intended, on the one hand, to balance the two procedures -- a bill prepared by the Council of Ministers -- against a bill prepared by MPs and, on the other hand, to give time in the National Assembly one thing to mature, to be discussed by all parties. I'm using this occasion to take notes from the last two days, to take all the notes from the last two days. Parliament is a place where it is debated, where it is discussed and where it is finally decided. Anything that comes in here urgently is probably wrong. And we must bear that in mind when we are yet to think about these bills. Last word. I think that, as proposed, this text is correct with regard to the Standing Committees. I think the right place is in art. 73 and refer to bills submitted by MPs, not those of the Council of Ministers, because they stand by definition a certain time on the site. And in conclusion, there are no rules that are strong enough and clear on this issue. It depends on the personal responsibility of each Member of the National Assembly, whether submitting a bill or ruling on it. Let's take into account, including the few crusts we talked about just now, including what was happening, because the biggest fight for justice goes, naturally, through the law. Therefore, with gratitude to the opposition for raising the issue to this text. I think that it can be voted with a clear conscience as proposed by the Commission and the debate to continue in art. 73, where we can go deep. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u288	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. On a point of order, please, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u289	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to propose a procedure to end the debate with two arguments. One argument is that obviously colleagues from GERB continue to delay the time of decision in parliament. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And the second argument is that this is proposed in accordance with coordination with civil society organisations and this text, as is currently done, slows down the legislative process. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u290	Thank you. Is there any other opinion on this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u291	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a reverse proposal because the proposal is pointless because there are no other MPs who wish to speak. Ah, there is one who has declared himself, I apologize. So, if it is voted, at least those who have declared themselves can speak. The second thing is that whether or not someone is slowing down, in fact the speech from the stands is the right of the MPs, even if I do not say an obligation, to defend their positions. The attempt of any majority to silence the speeches from the stands never ends well. And thirdly, I am very interested in which are these civil organisations that have agreed with the proposal of Mrs. Miteva and Mr. Slavov? I ask you to present them to us because these two importers did not at least say such a thing to the Commission. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u292	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I put to the vote Mr. Mitev's proposal to end the debate on this issue. Please vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u293	There's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u294	Yes, I'm sorry. I didn't see you speak. But first, let's vote on whether or not to continue the debate. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please vote on Mr. Mitev's proposal to end the debate. They voted 191 MPs: for 110, against 63, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. The opposite offer doesn't... By procedure, Mrs. Atanasova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u295	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. We do not deny the vote of the House that it ended the speeches on the text, but Mr. Cholakov had stated a statement before this and the parliamentary practice, and the Rules also enabled those already stated to do so and then to end further speeches. In this sense, I ask you to accept Mr. Cholakov's statement as already stated in advance before the procedure is made, and from that moment on, after his speech, it is natural that no one else will have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u296	Yes, Mrs. Atanasova, thank you, but we have already voted. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Dear Mr. Ananiev, we voted only to end the debate, but we did not vote on this article.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u297	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u298	Yeah. Ms. Rositsa Kirova's proposal to preserve para. Art. 2 of art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u299	You're jamming the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u300	I'm voting on Mrs. Kirova's proposal. This is the new article. 26. They voted 183 MPs: 64, against 82, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting the whole...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u301	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u302	Revoting? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u303	Who couldn't vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u304	Okay, we're rethinking Mrs. Kirova's proposal. Vote 178 MPs: 66, against 95, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Temporary Committee on Art. 25, which is now art. 26, which was read. 195 MPs voted: 137 against 58 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to art. 26, now art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u305	Under art. 26 there is a proposal received by the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov. The Commission does not support the proposal, which reads: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "If constitutional obligations are refused to be fulfilled, there is a legal responsibility." Proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26 para. 2 shall be amended as follows: "At the request of at least two of the members of the committee concerned, its chairman shall be obliged to make an immediate request to the public authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration to attend a committee meeting, including a hearing on urgent and ongoing issues.' The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Elena Guncheva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1 to the State authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration and citizens are obliged to provide, upon request, all the information and documents as well as the opinions necessary for the work of the Standing Committees.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 26, which becomes Art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u306	Dear colleagues, you have the floor for speeches on the new article. 27, which is so far Art. 26. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u307	Madam President, colleagues! As an importer of one of the proposals with my colleague Dimitrov, given the debate that was held yesterday during the Commission meeting, allow me to make an editorial clarification of the administrative violations and penalties. And I'll tell you why. Because under the current Bulgarian law in the Criminal Code there is a special composition of crime for cases where a person does not execute a legal order of a body of authority, to be held criminally responsible. I hope that there will be no dispute as to which order is applicable, because the term "juridical responsibility" is a generic term and it is part of the doctrine, of the theory of law, so let us make an explanation if it is adopted by the Chamber, so that it is clear that it is a single charge. And something very important and a remark that we made in the 45th and 46th National Assembly in all parliaments, especially where the parliamentary form of government is, there is a violation or a crime of disrespect to the parliament, which is either pursued in criminal order or under administrative law. Only the Bulgarian Parliament probably does not have such a mechanism for seeking responsibility. This, I would even say, may be an opposition instrument when the ruling majority refuses in one way or another ministers, prime ministers to go to committees and to give explanations. We saw this deficit, by the way, in the 45th National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u308	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u309	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, with all due respect to you, if I may quote, I strongly disagree with your proposal. Yesterday, colleagues from the DPS explained it, colleagues from our parliamentary group explained it, and in its original form, I believe it is in violation of the Constitution and the law with this legal responsibility, as you have signed it, and with what you have done as an offer of administrative criminal responsibility. Because I ask you, who will issue the order for administrative criminal liability, will the President of the National Assembly go to court...? In this regard, allow me, Art. 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria says that officials and citizens, when invited, are obliged to appear before the parliamentary committees and to provide them with the information and documents they request. Citizens have the obligation, under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to appear on the committees, but not to testify, because the National Assembly is not an investigative body in this regard. Witnesses have quite other rights in the criminal trial, including protection. And if he's a defendant, you know that he may not be able to make any explanations that implicate him in a crime. I therefore strongly oppose your proposal, and I am pleased that the Commission did not accept it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u310	Thank you. Another line? A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u311	Colleagues, we have already learned that the obligation of officials and citizens to give information and documents is in the Constitution itself. 80. It's also in our rules of procedure in art. 26 and quite often we have to, and we may have to use it from now on. For example, if we want to call in the head of the KEWRC, and we want some information from him, some documents related to pricing, he should give them to us. The question is: what happens if he doesn't do it right now? Nothing's happening right now. That's why my colleague Slavov and I had suggested that we impose a penalty. The Commission yesterday's main problem was not whether we would impose a sanction, but who would impose it? We looked at two different options, finally I and some of my colleagues cleared out a version in which the instrument of establishment to be made by the President of the specific committee, because he knows the factology of what documents have been requested, that is to say whether they have been received, whether they have not been received and what has actually happened and the criminal decree itself to be issued by the President of the National Assembly. Some people may find it strange, but like the court, when someone does not appear, there are forceful measures in the Constitution only to tell you that in the Constitution itself there is no explicit norm to punish citizens, and this is done in law. The rules of the National Assembly have the power of law, so I believe that we have no problem putting this sanction in the respective article. I will therefore read the proposal to change art. 26, which I propose to read the following: the State authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration, the members of the management and control bodies of commercial companies or legal entities with state or municipal participation are obliged to provide, upon request, all information and documents, as well as opinions necessary for the activities of the permanent committees. The same obligation is for all citizens who have an objective prerequisite to assume that they could have information or documents. The faces under para. 1 shall not be entitled to refuse their requested information and/or documents arguing that the latter constitutes a certain kind of secrecy or is subject to protection. In accordance with the legislation in force, in case the persons under para. 1 explicitly state the legal basis for the need to protect the relevant type of information, the Commission is obliged to apply the measures provided by the law, depending on the specific type of protection of the relevant information. At the request of the President, here again we correct it to one third of the members of the committee, he is obliged to make an immediate request to the persons under para. 1 to attend the committee meeting and to answer the questions raised by its members in person. The refusal of a person from para. 1 to fulfil its obligation under the same subparagraph or paragraph 1. 3 of this Article constitutes an administrative violation within the meaning of the Law on administrative infringements and penalties, for which a fine of BGN 2000 is imposed. on a case-by-case basis and in case of repeated and any subsequent refusals of BGN 5000 We also make a legal definition: a separate case within the meaning of para. 1 is any refusal of a person under para. 1 to provide information and documents which he has been requested by the Commission, or to appear before it when he is invited under para. 3, including when it comes to the same question. It is a repeated violation of the obligations under para. 1 and para. 3...... carried out once the person has been punished after the entry into force of a criminal decree on the same infringement, regardless of which of the two paragraphs and on what specific question he has taken. [[beeping loudly, applause for interrupting speech]] [[crowd cheering and chirping]] And now the answer is:.. The actions for detection of violations under para............................................................................... 4 shall be drawn up by the Chair of the Commission and the penal decrees shall be issued by the President of the National Assembly or by anyone appointed and authorised by him Vice-President. That was the offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u312	Mr. Bachiysky, your time is up. If you can in writing give us this text, because it is very difficult to remember and assimilate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u313	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u314	A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u315	This discussion that's taking place, colleagues, at least it's written me in law. I am separated from the legal doctrine and my colleague Slavov found out that there is a sign of equality between legal responsibility and administrative criminal responsibility. After all, I have some use for today. I have one suggestion: I don't know what this police force is, a purpose for a punishment that is chasing us right now? Colleague, if we ask him to repeat what he's reading right now, he won't be able to repeat it. [[Applause from ICN and GERB-SDS.]] I have a suggestion. I support the request of my colleague Slavov to fix in one sentence that my colleague Slavov should issue the acts, and the colleague who spoke just now to issue the penal decrees without the right to appeal. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u316	Mr. Atanasov, a little more serious, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u317	And solve this matter once and for all. [[Applause from IHN.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u318	Another line? Here you go. [[Loud noise.]] I beg you very much that the lines and the dots be serious and to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u319	Madam President, I'm addressing you! Yes, I see young colleagues still getting to know the Rules, but let them remember one thing that the National Assembly is a legislative body. Here, first of all, we have a constitutional violation of what he's proposing. I would like to ask this fellow Member to read carefully what the duties and rights of the Member of the National Assembly are. We can't become a tribunal here. I am surprised that the President of the National Assembly will issue penal decrees. Sorry, that's a laugh. The second thing I'd like to address to you. Madam President, my fellow Members are not really experienced yet, so please do not allow speeches to be made, but I would like to ask that this cannot be an editorial change, because here, five minutes read, stumbled in the letters. [[Laughter]] Please note very much when and how editorial change is made, when the meaning of a bill changes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u320	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For the third line, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u321	Thank you, Madam President. I was going to be silent because I saw that the Commission had not adopted the text because it had many ambiguities. But what my colleague has just read, many questions arise in me as a lawyer. Are we gonna get a subpoena, coworkers?! [[(Laughter) Loud noise.)]] We need to hire a subpoena. How are we going to prove that we're going to fine the people who didn't show up with two, three or five I don't remember what it was...? We have to prove that we summoned them, invited them in the proper way, because with a phone and an e-mail...?! This is about citizens and legal entities, it is not just about ministers and bodies of state power. Let's read the text correctly. So, we need to appoint a subpoena, call on the police to bring them in forcibly if they don't appear, and finally, as a cover, the chairman of the committee to write the order, and the president of the parliament to issue the penal order. That's what I got from the text. Colleagues, let's not turn the National Assembly into something that's not on the Constitution. In my opinion, there is no citizen, minister or legal person who does not appear if invited in the proper manner, but to become what is being proposed is, to put it mildly, incorrect and will actually cause citizens and legal persons and the authorities that would help us, in this way, rather have a resistance to this assistance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Hole, Mr. Bachiysky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u323	First of all, this, apart from editorial change, my colleague here, Lancho, not to mention what the nickname was... [[(Laughter) Loud noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u324	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u325	I would like to draw attention to the fact that if he pointed out to me in the current rules on which article we are currently working, which article prohibits proposals from being put in here, other than the editorial amendment, I would withdraw this proposal. We have two members we can step on. Only art. 84 allows for a single-voting decision to be adopted, all other meetings go through two votes and the corresponding seven-day period between the votes in which written proposals are put, that is, the Rules have gaps, but nothing contradicts what we are currently doing. [[Loud noise.]] We also have no restrictions. Personally, I can't think of any law, help me if I have to, who prevents the President of the National Assembly from issuing a criminal order. We've already discussed it with him whether it's okay. There is the order of service of the relevant documents and of collection of the relevant duties. If we want this National Assembly and its committees to work effectively, to receive information and information from the relevant persons...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u326	Mr. Bachiysky!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u327	...it's okay to accept this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u328	Yeah. [[Noise.]] I hope Mr. Yordanov drinks water from the bottle, not something else. [[(Loud noise. (Laughter)]] Thank you. Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u329	Dear colleagues, let's stop laughing for a while now, because this is not funny at all. This tragedy is not funny at all, and what is happening in this National Assembly is not funny at all. Everyone here in this room, let's not be, but most of you understand that I will not use these words. However, it is nice, apart from legal arguments, to explain to the Bulgarian citizens in what direction the national representation is thinking in some of its representatives. You've got a lot Let's go! Colleagues, in this National Assembly, in this building we need to make a first room for the detainee. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] We have to follow the means of detention, the ways of feeding the detainees, no, I mean it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u330	Mr. Manev, I'm really calling you: a little more seriously!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u331	Mrs. Chairman, I'm serious. When someone wants us to assign administrative criminal functions with the right to forced entry, when someone does not want to appear, we need to see all aspects of what we are doing. And all aspects say the following: in addition to turning the President into an administrative punishing authority, we must provide in this same text of these same rules and administrative penal measures, the severity of penalties. But that's the legal side. I am trying to explain to the Bulgarian citizens what really lies behind these terms. There are simple things behind these terms, a group of people who will retain, because the Ministry of Interior is not able to enforce the law now in force to bring the Security of the judiciary, the Security Directorate, and we cannot assign it to it, that is, we must make an authority for the detentions and bringings of persons who do not want to submit to this act of ours. Next, by bringing them here, in the time when they will be deprived of the right to move, because of our decision, we will have to have a place to put them, to keep them. And there are special requirements. Besides, besides that! By issuing penalty warrants and fines, we need to find the form and record the form in which we will collect these fines, in plain, human language. That is to say, all the authorities: the National Assembly is a court, administratively punishing authorities, calling authorities, police, everything in the National Assembly. Hey, guys! I can't understand if my authority Sovetham is our new motto if the punishment is a form of parliamentaryism and our new principle of work I miss Mrs. Maya Manolova loved these things. You will call a citizen here and ask him, "Are you sick of AIDS?" He will say to you: "Yes" and you will publish it on the National Assembly's website. For you, nothing is working in connection with personal security, our rights as citizens! This slip is a way of thinking. I hope that will not happen as a fact, as a legal fact, but that it exists as a way of thinking is disturbing and scary. I am making this statement because I do not gather in my ideas of the National Assembly! Even in Maya's famous committees in the 45th and 46th Assembly, we did not come to such madness! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u332	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u333	Madam President, in the manner of holding the session, if you can lead the meeting, and not make any cheerful remarks. This is a bottle of tea, I suggest you smell it. If it's alcohol, I'll drink it in half.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u334	Thank you very much. You can drink it with health, but generally water is not even allowed in the gym. For you, it's the exception of clothes and the bottle. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go for a cue. About the douche bag later, Mr. Bachiyski. Please, Mr. Bachiysky! Mr. Yordanov distracted me. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u335	Mr. Manev may be based on his life experience thinking about arresting him. Maybe he couldn't understand that there was no norm for anyone to stay. We're only talking about administrative punishment. The man doesn't come, he has to be fine. It's not about detention anywhere, and everything you've said is untenable. Secondly, what you are saying, Mr. Manev, that we are going to ask people about specific personal questions of their own, that is untenable. We are only talking here about things that are related to the work of the committee, to issues that are being dealt with. There is no way we can ask any data that is not related to the activities of this committee. Please concentrate and watch carefully what we say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u336	Thank you, Mr. Bachiyski. Procedure. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go. There's been an excitement in the room, and I apologize to Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u337	No, it's okay. Colleagues, I understand it's frustrating this ridiculous behavior here. However, see, the hint of my existence will explain it to make it clear to the people that I have worked for more than 13 years in the police and I am one of the first officers in the Judicial Guards in Bulgaria. So this is my existence that you probably meant. From now on, however, let us explain. There's an administrative criminal trial. This administrative criminal process is the work of the lawyers to tell you how things happen, how a procedure is carried out on an administrative criminal file and so on and so forth. That's not my job. My job is only to explain colorfully to the citizens that, in fact, when you involve the mandatory participation of a citizen, I will not dwell on legal entities, I will not dwell on the other directors, civil servants and so on, this is another topic. But when you involve a citizen to participate in a process leading to administrative punishment, you must have measures for his punishment, for his provision in this process, for his presence, for the way in which you will oblige him to provide you with the information. And all I've outlined is no joke. It's not a joke! You will ask someone to bring you this citizen, you will ask someone to oblige this citizen in any order to provide you with the information requested by you. As for what information you will want, you in this National Assembly and in any other there is a majority that can set up a temporary committee on whatever it wants. And tomorrow a temporary commission on the size of the citizens' shoes in the Republic of Bulgaria can be established and will oblige them to come and say what shoes they wear. You may want to make even a permanent committee dealing with the mental state of the MPs and publish it in this order, in which you start to play with your rights as MPs. Today, for the second time, I think, or for the third time, I say that we are overreacting and overreacting to some of our fellow Members by defining themselves as God-elects, by putting on rights and powers that are not inherent to them. Find out! The National Assembly is a legislative body and I do not say it to you, you know it, colleagues, I say it to the citizens, a legislative body. All other functions must support his legislative obligations, his legislative right, not turn him into a tribunal, into a detention place...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u338	Mr. Manev, please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u339	...in an administrative criminal authority and so on. Thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u340	Thank you. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u341	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Please, let's be at the height of this tribune. Enough exotic ideas have been heard here, from this tribune. I propose an end to the debate on this point. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] All the opinions have been heard. Let's move on. We have a really serious job to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u342	Because I was just in some debt to your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u343	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Because my procedure was to end the debate as they became extravagant enough. If I have to quote a non-talker, let's not keep wasting time with some extravagants. After all, an alternative proposal, which is not supported by the Commission, was followed by a much more extravagant one. I just want to remind you that art. 80, para. 2 of our Rules, where it is clearly described what is acceptable and what is not admissible for proposals which have not been made in writing between the two readings and also in the Chamber, and stick to it when subjecting the text to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u344	Thank you. A counteroffer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u345	REPLICA: In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u346	I ask a question: is there any other proposal regarding termination?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u347	I don't agree, because before...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u348	Please, I didn't give you the floor! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u349	...under art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u350	Mr. Bachiysky, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u351	There was one in front of me... Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u352	Mr. Bachiysky, until you're given the word, you can't come to the microphone. [[Relations of the MP Konstantin Bachiiski away from the microphones.]] Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u353	The procedure is continuing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u354	With all due respect to you, I listened very carefully and everyone listened to you! Until you're given the floor, you can't stand on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u355	Okay, I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u356	Really. I'll give you my word, but not now. [[Noise and lines.]] The opposite position to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u357	My fellow Members, I believe that the debates should continue, as we have not discussed all the proposals. [[Laughter]] I believe that what is currently being played is shameful. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very fun for you, but keep in mind that every minute of our time has been paid by the Bulgarian voter who sent us here. And please, when you have fun, remember how much we are worth to the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u358	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. I put to the vote the motion to end the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] Please wait a minute, maybe there's some kind of technical problem. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues who started voting a little later want a few seconds maybe. Vote 169 MPs: 119, against 38, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u359	Re-vote! Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u360	It's a re-vote. Okay, I think the problem was technical. Revoting! [[Replys on the left.]] I can't hear you when you're talking from the spot! Revoting, fellow Members! Vote again. [[Noise and lines.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Quaestors, if you could verify the state of the system. I'm giving you five minutes off. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Just a five-minute break to determine the cause. [[Replications. People's representative Manoil Manev wants the floor.]] Let them check now, while the rest is at rest, let them see what's causing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u361	My fellow Members, before you leave this House, just to clarify this is a procedure, because for the first time in so many years, it happens to me before I touch the voting apparatus, it gives me a type of vote for and against. [[(People's representatives around the tribune:) Come on! Come on now!]] That's a fact, and don't tell me: Come on, come on, young sir. Because that's not the kind of behavior that suits you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u362	Mr. Manev, they will now check the reason why there is a problem with the technique. [[Checking the voting system.]] Dear colleagues, let's take our seats slowly. They tried to fix the system. We'll continue. Colleagues, I'm asking you very much to take your seats! One more minute, we'll wait. Let the coworkers take their seats. [[The President's instructions with the rapporteur.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u363	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u364	Expires, but there was no proposal for an extension to 4:30 will be. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS. Replies of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Philip Popov.]] But an hour before the meeting is over! It lengthens over time for rest. Okay. An hour before the end, no procedure can be done. Dear colleagues, take your seats! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u365	Procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u366	Let all colleagues take their seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u367	Fine, but how long can we wait for them? [[Heckling]] I'm waiting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u368	Who gave you the floor?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u369	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u370	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u371	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm doing a procedure to continue working hours until 6:00 p.m. [[Strong noise from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] And please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u372	Is there a counteroffer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u373	There is! There is!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u374	He can't make an offer an hour before the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u375	Yeah, yeah, exactly. I told him, but he didn't believe me!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u376	Madam President, honourable Members! I think we are all already aware, even now, that, after a conversation with the President, that less than an hour before the end of the announced end of working time cannot be asked for an extension. I am making a reverse suggestion that we do not prolong the time, the end will remain at 16.00, as per the Rules of Procedure, and not prolong it. Yes, thank you. [[(Applause and cheering from GERB: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u377	Excuse me, I think it was art. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u378	Madam President, let the re-vote go while you check the regulations. There's a re-vote! Let her go while you check the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u379	Yeah, yeah, okay. Okay, I agree. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u380	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u381	In the manner of conduct! We're in the middle of a re-voting procedure. After that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u382	Okay, then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u383	We are re-voting the last motion to end the debate. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u384	We are revisiting the termination of the debate that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u385	We have a re-voting of the proposal from a while ago, not this.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u386	Right, the system broke down. [[(SCREAMS: ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u387	Please vote! Vote 192 MPs: 134, against 38, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on the main text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u388	The extension procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u389	The extension procedure is one hour before 16.30. ... [[Replications of MPs Georgi Svilenski and Philip Popov. Replies between the MPs from the different parliamentary groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u390	Which Ruler?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u391	Put it to the vote. Don't wait, there's one more minute, it's not gonna happen. Then you'll check it out, put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u392	Okay. Once again, I formulate the proposal from the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u393	There is no need, it is clear to continue until 6:00 p.m. [[Strong noise from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u394	The offer is... [[Loud noise, shouting from GERB-SDS.]] Here's what your colleagues are telling you! They confirm what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u395	Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u396	Yes, I'm voting...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u397	That's right. [[Shouts from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u398	...the proposal for an extension of the time.. the desire of the parliamentary group of BSP. [[Relations of the MP Hristo Gazhev. Noise and lines in the parliamentary groups.]] Mr. Svilensky, at least because we're in a voting procedure, I can't put it to the vote right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u399	My proposal was made before 4:00 p.m. and find it in the Rules of Procedure. Look at him!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u400	Okay, but we need to close our vote on art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u401	I did it before 4:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u402	But it's 4:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u403	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u404	What procedure are we in? What are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u405	It's an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u406	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u407	I suggest we end this with art. 26, because there are texts that need to be put to the vote, which have not been adopted by the Temporary Commission. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u408	The procedure hasn't been completed...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u409	Yes, this procedure has not been completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u410	...to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u411	What do we do now? We're beating the ball to make it 5:00?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u412	My fellow Members, I'm putting it to the vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u413	What are we doing right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u414	But you haven't heard what I'm putting to the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u415	I thought you started an extension procedure. Isn't that what we started? What's the score?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u416	Mrs. Miteva, please come in as a specialist to help. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u417	Madam President, and I believe in the Rules of Procedure that you should call off the sitting, as it has been extended to 16:00, and it is now one and two minutes. [[Applause]] So the vote must continue on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u418	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u419	Shouldn't we be after 4:30 because... [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u420	Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u421	This is where everyone starts to take their word for it. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u422	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u423	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u424	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse offer. [[Shouts from GERB-SDS.]] The procedure for extending working hours was made before 16.00 and we are in voting mode, which the President announced here, from this tribune. The fact that the voting regime has been extended more than provided for in our Rules of Procedure in two minutes, and I no longer know which minute we are in voting mode, does not mean that it has already passed 16.05 in respect of the vote. The proposal was made before 4:00 p.m. and we're still in voting mode...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u425	That's not true, that's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u426	...by this proposal. Let us complete this vote and decide whether or not it will be extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u427	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u428	I'm not Mr. Tsonev, and I'd be happy if I could be. Madam President, I wanted to take the floor, but it's like you're looking to your left. It doesn't matter! The proposal that the people's representative Svilenski made is also relevant because it was made before the revoting. When we are in a re-voting procedure, no procedural proposal can be made. So no such proposal has been made, and if it is now made, it is after 16.00. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u429	Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u430	Thank you, Madam President. The procedure is the way it's run. Dear colleagues, however, we can always sink into procedural pitfalls. This is part of the parliamentary debate and the parliamentary life. Are we not looking at our rules today that we will be working on for the next four years? What are we doing today, anyway? We do here exercises on the subject of arrests, administrative punishments, non-jurists are practiced on legal topics and so on and so forth. I appeal, Madam President, that this debate be held within the framework of the procedure and at the level at which Parliament should be at. Of course, the procedure that the Members have done was not done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that is, no procedure can be made when we are in voting mode. Yeah, but it's a formality. We can solve this much easier. Instead of standing in procedures. You did it, we did it in five and so on, the President should not give the floor, but it was given in chaos, in this noise, it is very easy to solve the question whether we want to watch our rules for two more hours or not. There's no need for procedural cues. You're right, you're wrong. Let's finish the vote and decide: do we want two more hours today, or do we continue tomorrow? It's that simple! We're looking at our rules. Do we want it, or are we gonna watch it tomorrow? What's the big deal? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-16.u431	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Honourable Members, let us conclude this point and then end the meeting and stay for tomorrow, because we voted to have the time by 16.00. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" It is now 16.10 pm On what basis? "]] I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Atanas Slavov and Ivan Dimitrov with the editorial amendment of Mr. Atanas Slavov in art. 26, para. 1 which is: in refusing to fulfil the constitutional obligations to be held liable. Vote 177 MPs: 16 against 116, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov. They voted 193 MPs: 14 against 155, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Elena Guncheva. Vote 191 MPs: 16 against 150, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting on Mr. Bachiiski's proposal, even though it hasn't been submitted... [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "It is not imported." It is unacceptable!]] I take it back because it has not been submitted within the necessary time limit in writing. I shall put the entire text of Article to the vote. 27, which is the current article. 26 The opinion of the Temporary Commission. Vote 190 MPs: for 176, against 13, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Regular meeting tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
