ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u1	Please, registration mode. Mrs. Petrova is online. Hello, Mrs. Petrova, you're also involved in the registration. Registered in the hall are 121 plus one online. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The number of MPs required to take a decision in this House is 62. Honourable Members, I propose to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for February 3, 2021. Today is the first Wednesday of the month 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "1." Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020, adopted at the first vote on 13 January 2021. 2. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020, adopted on the first vote on 13 January 2021. 3. First vote on the Bill on Special Investment Purpose Companies and on securitisation companies. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 6 January 2021 4. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Beekeeping Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2020, adopted on the first vote on 4 January 2021. Point 1 for Thursday 4 February 2021 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021 Point 2 for Thursday 4 February 2021 6. Draft Decision approving Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/203 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2021 Point 1 for Friday 5 February 2021 7. First vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 January 2021 Point 2 for Friday 5 February 2021 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021 Point 3 for Friday 5 February 2021 9. Parliamentary control after the legislative part of the meeting on Friday 5 February 2021 Please vote on the proposed draft agenda. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u3	Thank you. They voted 129 MPs and one remote turn 130: for 120 and one remote, 121, against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, a proposal has been made by Mr. Mareshki on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we propose to include them as a point in the forthcoming weekly program of the National Assembly for the period 3 February 2021. Read the six-month programme with the topics and files for the Republic of Bulgaria under the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 July, 31 December 2021 and the six-month programme with the priority topics and files for the Republic of Bulgaria during the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January 30 June 2021 according to art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2021 The way you're leading it? Here you are, Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u4	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner in which you are directed. Today again we are witnessing another violation of the Constitution in the National Assembly. Colleagues from VOLIA "Bulgarian Rhodolists" propose inclusion of a point in the current weekly work programme of the National Assembly under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on a topic on which the government is obliged by law to present reports to the National Assembly on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the processes for making a decision of the European Union during the previous Presidency and on the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria. During such an ongoing session, the National Assembly shall hear the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister under art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Council of Ministers in the performance of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution at the beginning of every six months is required to present these reports to the National Assembly. It is unacceptable for a parliamentary republic, a member of the European Union, to transfer constitutional obligations to a separate political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilists on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to include this item in today's agenda. Mrs. Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u7	Vote 160 MPs: 45 plus one remote turn 46 against 64, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. The declaration is from the political party GERB's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! When President Radev raised his fist over the heads of the protesters Bulgarian citizens last July, he divided the nation and shouted: "Muthrie, out!" we were sure that the fired blank cartridge will circle the area above the triangle of power, but after a ricochet in truth like a boomerang will hit the presidential hacienda across the street. There is no way that there will not be retribution when during an unforgettable plague you are trying to shoot those who fight day and night for the salvation of every Bulgarian life. People have come up with a saying: "Don't look at the straw in the eye of the opposite one, but look at the beam in your own eye!" "Because it is one thing to slander your opponent without any evidence, and another is when Bulgarian justice and the European Anti-Fraud Office stand against you. Speaking of the New Year, new luck!...................new luck!....... yesterday the media earlier launched over the quiet presidency unsurpassed questions: OLAF suspected of corruption the president's secretary of anti-corruption Plamen Uzunov. The Bulgarian Ministry of Interior violated the terms of its grant agreement with the European Commission, using EU money to purchase cars with increased passability instead of new high-pass vehicles for all terrains. According to the OLAF investigation, that's what happened. The European Anti-Fraud Office has recommended that they be reimbursed to the European Union budget for nearly 6 million. EUR, as well as to assess the existence of prerequisites for the opening of criminal proceedings against officers of the Ministry of Interior. To the national media of Dondukov 2 the most brazen comment was made on the investigation of international experts with the words: "Lying to lie." "This is how Rumen Radev tries to crucify his advisor for the OLAF investigation. The lies of Dondukov 2 spring constantly, make reference to the conclusion of the contract, but OLAF does not attack the contract, but more important circumstances. It is important to note that the Ministry of Interior had no way of not signing the contract at the beginning of 2018, because the contract had previously been appealed consistently to the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court and was confirmed by both authorities. The Bulgarian Public Procurement Act in force does not provide for the possibility of annulment of an effective decision, confirmed by the Bulgarian Court of Justice as well. The OLAF are interested in who manipulated the public plough procedure before it was discovered? Who set the criteria to adjust the choice of the contractor, and the criteria and procedure were carried out precisely during the time of the Radevija Contractor? That is, while Radev's man is the head of the Ministry of Interior, the conditions of the public procurement change and it is then decided that the lowest price will be taken into account, and cars may have increased passability, and not as at the beginning it is set by only high. Thus, the requirements are adjusted so as to win a company that only produces SUVs or SUVs. OLAF is very clear about what the violation of the criteria of the competition took place before the opening of the procedure is done by the office chief of the Ministry of Interior Plamen Uzunov by the caretaker government of President Radev. If we have to sum up briefly, OLAF and the investigation are looking for answers to the following questions: who manipulated this procurement to come up with such a choice? Which of the companies that declared participation in the competition produce both SUVs and SUVs? Who is the guarantor of the affair that once again embarrasses us in front of the European Union? The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria is recommended for pre-trial proceedings for officials of the Ministry of Interior for abuse of power and benefit of a third party. In addition to the acts on which they are accused, the subject of the investigation is to trade in influence, as well as corruption and official crimes committed. Dear colleagues, remember Ognian Gerdjikov's line, with which he clearly described the simple decision-making mechanism in Radev's sadly famous office. The wish of the President of the Republic is to do this the way I report it. That's it! This is how the decisions have been made. The President said, this is the decision without regard to the legislation in Bulgaria. And now, Mr. President, you just ordered it. We have long known that your constitutional powers are tightening, but let us not forget that in the rule of law there are rules of political decency that the native statesmen should observe. Mr. President, isn't there too much failure on your team? How long will society tolerate your inadequate actions and the elementary lack of control over your subordinates? Until when will the disbanded presidency and its employees destroy the authority of European Bulgaria? As they say, such as the sorbage man, such as his cattle! But we don't have to be surprised, so just two months ago, you personally, Mr. President, made a gasket in a European country, hiding that you hadn't been informed of any contact with the CIVID-19. You lied unceremoniously to our entire people that you didn't know, but you were actually notified the day before the trip. And the housewives kicked you out deservedly like a stray dog from the country you put at risk... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u9	Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u10	...and her national leadership, and her citizens, and the delegation that accompanied the President. Mr. Radev, you are a shame and a disgrace to our country, and you have taken power in this just recovered from the communist coma Bulgaria. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As people with more experience in politics, we urge you to humble yourself, acknowledge your failures and most respectfully withdraw your application for a second term. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u12	Four years is enough, Mr. President! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u13	You're welcome, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! But before everyone, Madam President, in the manner of conduct: please remind the MPs who make a declaration that Bulgaria has been condemned more than once because of the fact that GERB MPs allow themselves here to distort the facts and to pronounce sentences. Bulgaria has been condemned more than once for people who read the SRS here or similar to this declaration, please also keep the authority of the institutions. Soon there are elections and then people will rule whether they want politicians like Rumen Radev or politicians like Spas Gurnevski. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u15	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We continue with messages: Laws and draft decisions entered into force from 27 January 2021 to 2 February 2021. A bill to supplement the Heritage Act. Importer "Iskren Veselinov" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Distributed to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Agriculture and Food. A bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences. Importer: Menda Stoyanova and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleansing Act. Importer? the people representative Stanislav Ivanov. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft program for development of the defence capabilities of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2032 and Draft Decision for adoption of the programme for determining the number of armed forces. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is also allocated to the Committee on Defence and to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. The National Statistical Institute received information about the Economic Conjuncture in January 2021, Price Indexes of producers on the domestic and international market in industry December 2020. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova. Oh, you have a statement? Mrs. Angelova, I'm sorry. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for a declaration on behalf of the group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When the GERB government came to power in 2017, it formulated five priorities in the field of energy. These priorities were that minimum plan that the government had to implement in order to be able to say four years later: everything promised has been fulfilled, but, unfortunately, that is not the case. Let me remind you who they are. The most important and first priority of the Ministry of Energy as part of the government program was to quote: Energy security through its own extraction, continuing to study deep in the Black Sea by conducting a search and survey procedure of the block. For the entire period of four years, this government has delayed the block competition for more than two years, which was supposedly a priority, and then this contest was held so that no one showed interest in it despite the successful studies in Romania and Turkey and the huge proven fields there. A second block competition for Theresa was never announced and thus this most important and first priority in the field of energy is failed. Here it is also necessary to mention the block "Khan Asparuh." You must all remember the ecstatic prime minister who promised us to become a kind of gas giant in natural gas production from there. I think no one is surprised by the sleep of this exhilaration, as it happened with all Borisov's promises. The second most important priority of this government, I quote again, is: Let me remind you that this is about ending the enslaving contracts with the so-called American power plants. In four years this government has done nothing to implement this decision and thus burdened hundreds of millions of Bulgarian consumers as a result of its unwillingness to touch these plants. The government forgot the World Bank's recommendations from 2016, although the Bulgarian Energy Holding paid a seven-digit fee to receive these recommendations. The third most important priority for this government and the Ministry of Energy was: And there was absolutely nothing done here about it. Moreover, the complete unaccounted for continues, the TPP Maritza East 2 (TPP) continues to sink, and only we of the BSP reached out to save her when the government was ready to sacrifice her. The fourth most important priority for this government and the Ministry of Energy was quoted again: Energy security by building interconnectors between Bulgaria and neighbouring countries. Conversely, while imitating the supposed priority for the interconnectors, they gave priority to other projects, those for which unaccounted money is spent and for which there is no evidence of their economic advantage. Instead of Bulgaria having a really transit pipeline connected to the natural gas source directly, without transiting countries with consumers, the government implemented the so-called Balkan Stream as an alleged extension of its own transmission gas infrastructure. But first, this stream today due to the quantities of gas that pass through it, without the two compressor stations that are not ready yet, is rather a stream, not to mention that it is a rural bar and, second, not a single branch for the poorest European region.......................... Instead of the Azeri gas entering through the interconnector with Greece at Komotini, we make virtual deals that cost it, the interconnector with Romania is one-way from Bulgaria to our northern neighbour, the interconnector with Serbia at Dimitrovgrad is still on book, and not quite. The fifth most important priority for this government and the Ministry of Energy was total liberalisation of the electricity and gas market. Full liberalisation of the electricity and natural gas market is still a chimera and, thank God, the way you do it, and what is liberalized is hardly in the interest of consumers. Moreover, instead of liberalising the trade in natural gas without discussion and without any motives, we made all natural gas traders licensed in the KEWRC and almost a year of chaos because the regulations were not prepared. Instead of liberalising electricity to reduce household prices, which is also the reason why it is liberalized mainly, you are preparing society to increase prices because liberalisation for this government is actually the other word for taking responsibility at the expense of the poorest part of society. This is how it can be found after four years that the government of Borisov did not fulfill any of its election promises, none of the priorities he had set in his management program. I'm missing out on what's being imposed as a nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, because even this government had no way of ruining it. Now let's pay attention to what GERB could have done to reduce the burden on the poorest countrymen in the field of energy. Does anyone remember that GERB has burdened the largest company in our energy company with the heavyest loans? In 2013 and 2016, BEH issued 500 million respectively. EUR 550 million Euro bonding emissions. Moreover, notice, with annual interest rates of 4.29% and 4.88% and the government of the Republic of Bulgaria refuses to comply with the World Bank's recommendation to buy these emissions back, because at the moment capital of twice the value can be found. Instead, we pay two or three times higher interest rates to the City, the Bulgarian banking system has billions that it could give and less than 2%. In fact, the government of Boyko Borisov decided that this is how we will all be able to pay these interest rates. It is hard to estimate how much commissions could be for such a decision of over a billion euros of emissions. Only by proper compensation for the termination of long-term contracts with US power plants would our society have earned hundreds of millions of levs in recent years, which would have led to a reduction in both electricity and electricity bills. Where's the money going now? For the payment of interest and insurance, for the huge profits of owners who have long paid their investments and for the payment of consultancy and other remuneration that should not be due. What else did GERB leave us? For one year the government has not been able to choose the most important person in our energy sector - a new chairman of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory - and at the same time add new and new tasks to the Commission, which is currently having difficulties carrying out its activities. There is a complete abdication from the problems of the sector and a complete lack of vision for the priorities of individual subsectors. Did you know that there are three deputy ministers under the Ministry of Energy's Rules of Procedure, and did you know that for years the Ministry has only one? What a clearer demonstration of the complete lack of political and administrative capacity, which unfortunately leads to huge delays in administration and losses for our society. In this lack of administrative capacity, we can also explain why the question of billions of left-wing investments and tens of years ahead are taken without any debate. Did anyone see a page analysis of why we're closing the "Belene" in quotes, of course, closing? Did anyone see an analysis of what happened after ten years of research in the Black Sea? Has anyone prepared a strategic document for Bulgaria's role in the green deal? Does anyone think about the survival of the complex, the Maritsa East, and turning it into a green spot on the map of Europe without losing a single job? Is there an alternative to this irresponsible government? Yes, there is, and we at BSP are offering it. It shall include: First of all, save the Bulgarian nuclear power because we have brought it there; build a new nuclear power plant with research and continuation of the possibilities of the site of Belene. We also do not exclude exploring the possibilities for the deployment of small modular reactors when they appear and become reality. Secondly, the rescue of the Maritsa East complex, because despite the huge lag, the rescue of the complex should become a nationwide task. Here we have concrete proposals, including through funding from the Green Deal, including by ensuring maximum use of the brands to their power, which can be a guarantee of our national security and our energy security. You know what happens now that the V block has been dropped for some time from Bulgaria's energy system, the transformation of the complex is an example of new green investments and so on and so forth. Thirdly, this is liberalisation, but with the thought of people, so that we do not forget that it is done so that people can receive lower prices when avoiding monopoly ones. In this regard, the most urgent is the definition of so-called energy-dependent consumers and the development of measures to ensure continuous and affordable energy supplies for them. Fourth, support for RES producers, continuation policy for developing these capacities, but with detailed account of their impact on the stability of the energy system and price tolerance. Fifthly, the focus on natural gas and the preparation of a national long-term programme for stimulating industrial and domestic gas consumption and continuing work on diversification of routes and sources of supply on a market basis. The fifth point is a huge leap in energy efficiency, because with this law that we are changing now, we will not achieve it. Sixth, cheap and modern heating service with change of those regulations that will allow this service to be paid by citizens according to consumption, not by mathematical calculations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u17	Finish it, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u18	In fact, colleagues, this is what GERB left us. Nothing is implemented by their management program. This is what we offer you, and it seems to me that the choice you can make is right. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Nikolov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I know it's a practice here from this tribune to speak untruths. I know it's a practice to tell you that you have to take an attitude. Of course, you do not know what can be said in a declaration, but when this practice is already being applied, it begins to damage the image of the National Assembly. Perhaps you should find some approach from the point of view of these untruths and the people who say them. That is why I am addressing you because the question of the election campaign and its entry into the Chamber is already beginning to strain these untruths from the stands and they are beginning to weigh on the image of the National Assembly. Whether GERB has implemented our election program...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u21	That's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u22	...is a matter that will be decided by the voters. Therefore, Madam President, I call on you to find a mechanism for sanctioning people who speak these untruths because many untruths have been told in this declaration. I can talk a lot, but unfortunately, the procedure does not allow me, and I would ask you precisely to find such a form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. You were right.. there is no way in advance to know who will say what, so, colleagues, this is still the stands of the National Assembly and everyone can express opinions. You have options in different procedures and you are in charge. Mrs. Angelova, please introduce us to the Report for the Second Reading of the Credit Institutions Act No 002-01-56.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Before presenting the Report, I ask you to put to the vote a procedure for admission in the hall of Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Rositsa Petkova, Head of the Department of Finance and Mrs. Atanas Ivanov from the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u25	Please vote on the procedure so done. They voted 134 MPs: 127, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u26	"Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, No 002-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020, adopted at the first vote on 13 January 2021. The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Credit Institutions Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) s (3) A credit institution whose activity is governed by a special law shall also apply the requirements of that law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and their implementing acts. In the event of a conflict, the requirements of this law and of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 shall apply. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) The European Commission and the European Banking Authority (EBA) shall be notified of each law under para. 1, t. 2 which explicitly allows an undertaking other than a credit institution to make public the acquisition of deposits and other recoverable funds by the authority entrusted with the control of the implementation of the relevant law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u27	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law, the new § 1 created and the version of § 1, which shall become § 2 of the Commission Report. [[Noise and lines.]] Just for the record, guys. Cancel the vote because there's a technical pass. I'll read again what we're going to vote on. We vote on the name of the Law, the new § 1 created and the version of § 1, which becomes § 3 under the Commission Report. They voted 126 MPs: 121, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u28	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal for § 2 and support paragraphs 4 and 5. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 2, 4 and 5: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced For entry into the register, issue of certificates and making changes in the entered circumstances, fees shall be paid to BNB in order and in the amounts set out in the ordinance under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 the word "institution" is replaced by "entity" and the word "institution" is replaced by "substitute." § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 7. . (7) Alinei 5 and 6 apply respectively to prosecutors. 2. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8..................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u29	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the newly created § 3, § 4 and § 5, and the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u30	There's no such proposal, Madam President. It says something else. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u31	Colleagues, I'll read back what we're voting on. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 2, 4 and 5. This is what we are voting for at the moment: new paragraphs are being created and the text of the importer for § 2, which becomes § 6. There seems to be some technical error in the protocol that has been presented to us. We'll follow the rapporteur. If there's any other inaccuracies, we'll interrupt and get new reports. 110 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted. Perhaps because of the displacement of the locations of these paragraphs, and that's where this technical error occurred.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u32	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the words "business' shall be replaced by "activity'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: A sentence 2 shall be created: When a credit institution is part of a group, a description of the group's organisational structure shall also be applied, including identification of parent enterprises, financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies in the group. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 9, by proposing in paragraph 5. 1, para. 1 the word "Notification" shall be replaced by "application." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become §10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u33	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the version of § 3, which becomes § 7 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 8; the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 9 with the corresponding replacement; the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 10; the text of the importer for § 7 and § 8, which becomes § 11 and § 12. Vote 117 MPs: 109, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u34	Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. The first sentence of the first sentence is added and the presentation of all required documents is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u35	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the new § 13 proposed by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u36	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Section III of Chapter Three establishes art. 35a "35d: Art. 35a. (1) parent financial holding company from a Member State, parent mixed financial holding company from a Member State, parent financial holding company from the European Union and parent mixed financial holding company from the European Union shall be obliged to request the approval of BNB where it is a consolidating supervisory authority. (2) Paragraph 1 shall also apply to financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies other than those under para. 1 to which the BNB supervises on a consolidated basis. (3) For approval, the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company shall provide BNB with the following: 1. a description of the organisational structure of the group, part of which is the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company, clearly indicating its subsidiaries and, where applicable, the parent undertakings, as well as the location and subject of business carried out by each entity in the group; 2. information on the empowerment of at least two persons who manage and represent the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company and on compliance with the requirements of art. 96; 3. information on compliance with the requirements of art. 13, para. 2, p. 7 sentence first, et cetera. Art. 8, Art. 14, para. 3, p. 6 and so on. 10 - 12 with regard to shareholders and shareholders holding qualifying holdings, and in the event that there are no such shareholders for the 20 largest shareholders or partners; 4. a description of the internal organisation and the division of the tasks within the group; 5. other information required by BNB to carry out the assessments under para. 5 and 6. (4) The information under para. 3 is provided to BNB and where a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is located in the Republic of Bulgaria, but BNB is not a consolidating supervisory authority. (5) The Bulgarian National Bank shall grant approval to a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company where the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. internal rules and allocation of group tasks ensure compliance with the requirements of this law and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 on a consolidated basis and are effective for the purpose of: (a) coordination of all subsidiaries of the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company, including by appropriate division of tasks between subsidiaries; (b) the prevention or management of conflicts within the group; (c) implementation of policies for the entire group adopted by the parent financial holding company or mixed parent financial holding company within the group; 2. the organisational structure of the group of which the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is part shall not prevent or otherwise prevent effective supervision of subsidiaries or parent institutions to fulfil their obligations on an individual and consolidated basis, taking into account the assessment of this criterion: (a) the position of the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company in the group at several levels; (b) the ownership structure; (c) the role of the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company within the group; 3. compliance with the requirements of art. 13, para. 2, p. 7 sentence first, etc., 8, art. 14, para. 3, p. 6 and so on. 10 "12 with regard to shareholders and partners holding qualifying holdings' and art. 96. (6) The Bulgarian National Bank shall exempt from the obligation to obtain approval of a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company where the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the main activity of the financial holding company is the acquisition of shareholdings in subsidiaries or, in the case of mixed financial holding company, the main activity in relation to the institutions or financial institutions in the group is the acquisition of shareholdings in subsidiaries; 2. the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is not defined as a resolution entity in any of the group resolution groups in accordance with the resolution strategy defined by the BNB as a resolution authority under the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms or by another competent resolution authority; 3. a subsidiary credit institution shall be designated as responsible for compliance with the requirements of the group on a consolidated basis and shall be granted all necessary means and rights for the effective performance of those obligations; 4. the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company shall not participate in the taking of management, operational or financial decisions concerning the group or its subsidiaries which are institutions or financial institutions; 5. there are no obstacles to the exercise of effective supervision of the group on a consolidated basis. (7) Financial holding company or mixed financial holding company under para. 6 shall not be excluded from the scope of prudential consolidation under this law and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (8) The Bulgarian National Bank, when it is a consolidating supervisory authority, shall monitor on an ongoing basis the compliance with the conditions under para. 5 and 6. Financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies shall provide the BNB with the information necessary for the ongoing monitoring of the organisational structure of the group and compliance with the conditions under para. 5 and 6. (9) The Bulgarian National Bank, when it is a consolidating supervisory authority, shall provide the information under para. 8 of the competent authority of the Member State in which the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is established. (10) When BNB finds that the conditions under para. 6 are no longer complied with, it requires the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company to submit an application to which the necessary documents are attached for approval in accordance with para. 3. (11) The Bulgarian National Bank shall decide to grant approval or refuse to grant approval in 4 months period after receipt of the application or if incompletely from receipt pa all information under para. 3 but no later than 6 months after receipt of the application. (12) The Bulgarian National Bank shall refuse to grant approval if: 1. consider that one of the conditions under para. 5; 2. the documents submitted by the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company contain incomplete, contradictory or unreliable information; 3. the additional documents requested are not submitted within the specified period, which are necessary to carry out the assessment of whether the conditions under para. 5. (13) At the same time as the refusal BNB may impose supervisory measures under art. 103b. (14) Where the issue of approval of a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is related to the issue of approval for the acquisition of a qualifying holding by a competent authority of another Member State, the BNB shall cooperate with that authority. Art. 35b. (1) Where it is a consolidating body, but the headquarters of the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is in another Member State, the BNB shall prepare an assessment of compliance with the conditions of art. 35a, para. 5, 6 and 10 and for the existence of grounds for implementing a measure under art. 103b, and send it to the competent authority of the headquarters of the financial holding company and mixed financial holding company in order to reach a joint decision. (2) The joint decision shall be taken within two months of receipt of the assessment by the competent authority under para. 1. (3) If, due to disagreement, a joint decision cannot be reached within the term under para. 2, the issue shall be addressed by EBA in accordance with Article 2. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/78/EC (OB, L 331/12 of 15 December 2010) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No In this case, a joint decision shall be postponed and awaiting EBA decision. (4) In the cases under para. 3 BNB and the competent authority under para. 1 take a joint decision in accordance with EBA's decision. (5) the joint decisions under para. 2 and 4 are motivated and provided by BNB to the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company. Art. 35c. (1) Where the BNB is not a consolidating supervisory authority but the headquarters of the parent financial holding company from a Member State, the parent mixed financial holding company from a Member State, the parent financial holding company from the European Union or the parent mixed financial holding company from the European Union is in the Republic of Bulgaria, the BNB shall participate in a joint decision with the consolidating supervisory authority to issue the approval of the holding, exemption from the obligation to obtain the approval and enforcement of supervisory measures. (2) The decision under para. 1 shall be taken within two months of receipt of the assessment by the consolidating supervisory authority of compliance with the conditions for issuing the decision. (3) If, due to disagreement, a joint decision cannot be reached within the term under para. 2, the issue shall be addressed by EBA in accordance with Article 2. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. In this case, a joint decision shall be postponed and awaiting EBA decision. (4) In the cases under para. 3 BNB and the consolidating supervisory authority shall take a joint decision in accordance with EBA's decision. (5) the joint decisions under para. 1 and 4 are motivated. Art. Thirty-five years. (1) In the case of a decision or joint decision on a mixed financial holding company under art. 35a (c) where BNB is a consolidating supervisory authority or competent authority at the headquarters of the mixed financial holding company but is not a coordinator designated in accordance with art. 14 The Additional Supervision of Financial conglomerates Act requires the coordinator's consent. (2) When BNB is designated as coordinator according to art. 14 of the Act on supplementary supervision of financial conglomerates, but is not a consolidating supervisory authority for the relevant mixed financial holding company, which is not headquartered in the Republic of Bulgaria, BNB participates in the decisions or joint decisions under para. 1 as coordinator. (3) In the event of disagreements in the decision or joint decision, in the cases referred to in para. 1 and 2, the matter concerns EBA or the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority respectively. The decisions under para. 1 shall be without prejudice to the obligations under the Additional Supervision of Financial conglomerates Act or the relevant national legislation introducing Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the taking-up and pursuit of the insurance and reinsurance business (Solvency II) (OB, L 335/1 of 17 December 2009) .?.......................................................................................................... According to § 10, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 6 after the words the third, fourth and sixth parts shall be comma and shall be added with the exception of the requirements of art. 92a or 92b. 2. In para. The second sentence shall be created: the decision to withdraw the licence shall be taken in a timely manner after the establishment of the securitisation. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: (3) Outside the cases referred to in para. 1 and 2 BNB necessarily withdraws the license issued to a bank upon a finding under art. 51a of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. The decision to withdraw the licence shall be taken in a timely manner after the request has been made. 4. Alinea 6 is canceled. 5. In para. 7 after the words "al." The following shall be added to the list: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 1 after the words "al." The following shall be added to the list:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u37	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 9, which shall become § 14 of the Commission Report; the version of § 10 and § 11, which shall become respectively paragraphs 15 and 16 of the Commission Report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u38	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence after the word "up-to-date' shall be a comma and the combined buffer demand shall be added. 2. In para. 3 is created t. 4. "4." the limits applicable to established defaults or to prevent default of the leverage ratio buffer under art. 92 (1a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 3. In para. 4 after the words. 26, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 1s and finally a comma shall be placed and the order of notification under art. 26, par. 3, para. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, as well as the necessary documents to be submitted with the notification The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 18, by proposing in point 2. 2 letter,b. The words............................................................................................. 1, t. To be replaced by................................................................................................ 1, t. 2.. 9.............. 9................................................................. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 19, § 20 and § 21: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 2 point (b) is amended as follows: , (b) is a member of its Board of Directors, Supervisory Board, Board of Directors or is its Prosecutor; § 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. The second sentence is created: The Bulgarian National Bank is not responsible for damage in relation to the information stored in the system provided by the institutions under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. § 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56a, para. The second sentence is created: The Bulgarian National Bank is not responsible for damage in relation to the information stored in the system provided by the institutions under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 22, and shall propose in point 2. 2 the words "or 5' shall be replaced by the words "or 3'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u39	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the newly born § 17; the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 18 with the corresponding replacements in the text; the creation of new paragraphs 19, 20 and 21; the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 22 with the corresponding replacement in the text; and the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 23. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u40	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 15, which becomes § 24, by proposing in para. 3, p. 3 the words.. and does not exceed its statutory powers........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 25. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 1 the words "Personal changes' in "Personal changes' shall be replaced by "Changes' in the composition of "Personal changes'. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: (3) The changes in the composition of the Management Board (the Board of Directors), of the Supervisory Board and the authorisation of prosecutors shall be entered in the Commercial Register after the submission of the approval of the BNB under art. 11, para. 3. 3. They're creating an al. . (4) The release of one or more persons from the Board of Directors (the Board of Directors) or the Supervisory Board before the expiry of the term of office for which they have been elected and the withdrawal of the appointment of a prosecutor shall be entered in the Trade Register after the submission of the notification under para. 1, t. 1. (5) The amendments to the statutes shall be entered in the Commercial Register after approval by the BNB. The Bulgarian National Bank shall issue or refuse approval within 30 working days of notification. (6) The Bulgarian National Bank shall refuse to grant approval if the amendments to the statutes conflict with this law, its implementing acts and acts of BNB. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73b, para. 3 after the words "sex neutral" is added, and at the beginning of the sentence a second is added. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "banking groups" shall be deleted and the words "to reflect their financial situation both individually" shall be replaced by "banking groups" shall be deleted and the words "to reflect their financial situation both individually" shall be replaced by "banking groups." 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: s (3) Banks which are subsidiaries in a group shall submit to BNB the consolidated financial statements of the group in which they are involved. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA If no objection has been expressed by the BNB within 30 working days of receipt of the request for coordination and all necessary documents, the proposal for election of auditors shall be deemed to have been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 21 and 22 which shall become paragraphs 32 and 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u41	Thank you. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 15 which becomes § 24 with the proposals for editing in the text of the Commission; the text of the importer for § 16 which becomes § 25; the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 26 with a text according to the Commission; the text of the importer for § 17 which becomes § 27; the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 18, 19 which become paragraphs 28 and 29 respectively; the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 30 with a text for the Commission report, as well as the text of the Commission for paragraphs 20, 21 and 22 which become paragraphs 31, 32 and 33. Vote 81 MPs: 75, none, abstention 6. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u42	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 34. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 80th para . (8) The persons referred to in para. 1 are obliged to provide the necessary documents, information and assistance required in carrying out banking supervision and to refrain from actions that could prevent it from being carried out. Paragraphs 24, 25, 26 and 27 are supported by the importing Commission, renumbering and becoming paragraphs 36, 37, 38 and 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 40, proposing in paragraph 28. 2 point (s) to be amended as follows: In the first sentence, the first sentence shall be added as well as those established in qualifying capital instruments. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 42, and shall propose in point 2. 4 The words are created new para. 5 and 6: "Today's Act is to be replaced by "Today'. 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6 and are amended as follows: The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 31, which becomes § 43 by proposing in para. For each institution within the group, two words shall be replaced by one for each institution in the group and shall be replaced by one for each institution in the group. 6 The Words......................................................................................... In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Five o'clock.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u43	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 34; the Commission's proposal to establish a new § 35 with a text on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 24, 25, 26 and 27, which shall become paragraphs 36, 37, 38 and 39 respectively; the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 40 with the proposal for editorial amendments made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 41; the text of the importer for § 30, which shall be § 42 with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 43 with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u44	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 44 by proposing in para. 5 words. To be replaced by............................................................................................... 4............................................................................................ Paragraphs 33, 34 and 35 by importer which become paragraphs 45, 46 and 47. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92f The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it, in a sentence two, the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) The Bulgarian National Bank shall participate in the supervisory college and in the cases referred to in art. 35a, para. 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The first sentence is amended as follows: "In addition to the agreements of the consolidating supervisory authority, additional supervisory tasks may be assigned, as well as provision for decision-making and cooperation procedures with other competent authorities.' 2. In para. 2 and 3 the word "supervised" is deleted. 3. The creation of para. 5. (5) The Bulgarian National Bank shall conclude written agreements under para. 1 and for the purposes of supervision on a consolidated basis vis-à-vis a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company with: 1. the competent authority of the Member State of the holding's seat; 2. The consolidating supervisory authority when the head office of the holding is in the Republic of Bulgaria, but the BNB is not a consolidating supervisory authority. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 50. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in that sentence the first sentence shall be amended as follows: the members of the management and control body, as well as the persons authorised to manage and represent a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company must comply with the requirements of art. 10, para. 4 - 7 and art. 11, para. One and two........................................................................................... 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) The provisions of art. 11, para. 3 " 5, 7 and 8" shall apply respectively. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 97b: Art. 97b. (1) The Bulgarian National Bank, when exercising supervision on a consolidated basis of a mixed financial holding company for which equivalent provisions of that law and of the Additional Supervision Act of financial conglomerates, including risk-based supervision, apply only to that holding, after consulting the competent supervisory authorities of the subsidiaries of the holding, the provisions of the Additional Supervision Act of financial conglomerates. (2) The Bulgarian National Bank, when carrying out supervision on a consolidated basis of a mixed financial holding company for which equivalent provisions of this law apply, the Insurance Code or the relevant legislation of a Member State, including for risk-based supervision, may, under an agreement with the competent insurance supervisory authority, apply only to that holding the provisions of the law relating to the most significant financial sector defined under art. 3, para. 4 of the Act on supplementary supervision of financial conglomerates. (3) The Bulgarian National Bank shall inform EBA and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority of the decision-making under para. 1 and 2. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 41, which becomes § 53, by proposing that the abbreviation
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u45	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 44 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission; the text of the importer for paragraphs 33, 34 and 35, which shall become paragraphs 45, 46 and 47 respectively; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 36, which shall become § 48; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 37, which shall become § 49; the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 50; the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 39, which shall become § 51, and § 40, which shall become § 52; and the text of the importer for § 41, § 53 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 3. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u46	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 54. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102, para. 1, t. 3 Finally, the application criteria for the principle of proportionality are added. Under § 44, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "instructions' shall be replaced by "instructions' or they have been made without "instructions'; (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." infringement or circumvention of the provisions of that law, directly applicable acts of the European Union, for the application of which powers have been conferred on the BNB, including Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 or BNB; (c) c. 8 is finally a comma and is added as well as in the cases referred to in art. 79c, para. the following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Regulation (EU) No 231/2014): (d) shall be established. 19? 23: "19." failure to adopt the necessary actions to ensure compliance with the prudential requirements set out in Part Three, fourth, sixth or seventh of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 or imposed on the basis of para. 2, p. Art. 5 or art. 103a, para. 1 on a consolidated basis; 20. the economic value of the capital of the bank falls by more than 15 percent of its Tier 1 capital as a result of a sudden and unexpected change of interest rates provided for in the six shock scenarios for supervisory purposes, according to the ordinance under art. 73, para. 6 and the Act of the European Commission under art. 98 (5a) of Directive 2013/36/EU; 21. The net interest income of the bank fell significantly as a result of a sudden and unexpected change in interest rates provided for in the two shock scenarios for supervisory purposes, according to the regulation under art. 73, para. 6 and the Act of the European Commission under art. 98 (5a) of Directive 2013/36/EU; 22. the application of the restrictions under Art. 22. 39, para. 3, p. 3 leads to an unsatisfactory improvement in Common Equity Tier 1 capital; 23. violation of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities under art. 70 or 70a of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. 2. In para. 2: (a) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. require the bank to hold own funds exceeding the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 39, para. 2 in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; (b) c. 8 a comma shall be finally placed and added to the risk of external contractors' activities. (c) a new item shall be created. 20: It's 20. require additional reporting or at shorter intervals, including capital and liquidity requirements and securitisation requirements; (d) the so-called t. 20.. 23........................................................................... 21.. 24; (e) the current t. 24 is canceled. 3. Alinea 3 is canceled. 4. In para. 6 Finally, the words........................................................................................................... 5. A new para is being created. 7 and 8: s (7) Alinea 2, p. 20 shall apply only where: 1. the supervisory measure is appropriate and proportionate to the purpose for which the information is required; 2. the requested information is not the same or essentially the same as already provided otherwise to BNB, except where it is already provided in different form or at different level of detail, which enables BNB to produce information of the same quality and reliability as the information it would receive from the bank as additional information. (8) In the cases under para. 1, t. 20 and 21 BNB may apply a measure under para. 2 or define modelling assumptions and parameters other than those specified in the Act of the European Commission under art. 98 (5a) of Directive 2013/36/EU to be applied by the bank in the calculation of the economic value of the capital according to the regulation under art. 73, para. 6. The Bulgarian National Bank may not apply a measure by sentence first when, on the basis of the review and assessment under art. 79c found that the management of the interest rate risk arising from the business in the banking book was adequate and that the bank was not overly exposed to the interest rate risk. 6. Previously on AMC's... 7 " 10" became respectively. 9.. 12. 7. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 13 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: OJ L 347, 8. Previously on AMC's... 12 " 15" became respectively. 14 "Seventeen. " The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 57 by proposing in para. 6 the words "or the provisions of inheritance" shall be deleted. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 46, which becomes § 58 by proposing in para. 3 the word "force" to be replaced by "receipt" and in para. 4 words.............................................................................. To be replaced by............................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 47 and 48, which shall become paragraphs 59 and 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 61. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. , (4) With the individual administrative acts under para. 2 and 3 granting authorisations, approvals or rights may be laid down conditions following the implementation of which the act takes effect, as well as additional obligations and recommendations. 2. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. 3. They're creating an al. 6 and 7: * In the cases referred to in para. 2 and 3 where the individual administrative act issued in implementation of the request of the BCB would adversely affect the rights of the addressee, the addressee shall be notified of the act prepared, its main content, essential facts, considerations and legal grounds. The subject may express a written opinion on the facts, considerations and pleas in law within 14 days of the date of notification and, in the case of the issue of a licence, the withdrawal of a licence, the acquisition of a qualifying holding and, in special circumstances, the acquisition of a qualifying holding within three working days of the date of notification. The notification shall be given to the addressee in accordance with Article 1. 151, para. 7. (7) The Bulgarian National Bank may not apply para. 6 where, in order to prevent significant damage to the financial system, the urgent issue of an individual administrative act is necessary. In that case, the addressee shall have the right to make a written statement on the facts, considerations and legal grounds of the act within 14 days of the date of its receipt. In view of the opinion of the addressee and at the request of the BCB and in full compliance with it, the BNB shall review the act and may confirm it, amend, revoke or replace it by a new act. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 50, which becomes § 63, with the words "or" para. The following points are inserted after paragraph 5 (b) (i) (ii) (i) and (iii) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv)
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u47	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 54; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 43, which shall be § 55; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 44, which shall be § 56; the text of the importer for § 45, which shall be § 57, with the editorial amendments to the text proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 46, which shall be § 58, with the proposals for replacement in the text made by the Commission, as well as the text of the importer for § 47, § 48 and § 49, which shall become § 59, § 60 and § 61 respectively; the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 62 by text on the Commission report and the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 63, with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 4. The proposed texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u48	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 64. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 65, 66 and 67: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 after the words supplied under this Act, a comma is placed and added to "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, Regulation (EU) 2015/2365, Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 529/2014 of 12 March 2014 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regulatory technical standards to assess the materiality of the extension and modification of the IRB Approach and the Advanced Measurement Approach, Regulation (EU) No 2. In para. 7 sentence first, the Union shall be replaced by a comma and, finally, shall be added by e-mail or fax if the Party has indicated such a. § 66. Article 14 shall be inserted in Chapter 14. 151a: Art. 151a. (1) Where an individual administrative act of BNB in respect of a less significant bank or less significant supervised group, other than the cases under art. 121b, para. 6 would adversely affect the rights of the addressee, the addressee shall be informed of the draft act, its main content, essential facts, considerations and legal grounds. The subject may give a written opinion on the facts, considerations and pleas in law within 14 days of the date of notification and, in particular, within three working days of the date of notification. The notification shall be given to the addressee in accordance with Article 1. 151, para. 7. (2) The Bulgarian National Bank may not apply para. 1 where, in order to prevent significant damage to the financial system, the urgent issue of an individual administrative act is necessary. (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply where the act lays down obligations which: 1. reproduce explicit provisions of the law which the addressee must comply with; 2. are related to a request for submission of information under art. 80........................................................................ § 67. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 152 is A person who impedes the BNB, the Governor responsible for the management of the Bank's supervision and duly authorised by them employees in the exercise of supervisory powers shall be required: 1. when a natural person is fined from 1000 to 4000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 3000 to 12 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. when it is a legal entity a penalty from 50,000 to 200 000 BGN, and in case of a repeated infringement from 200,000 to 500,000 BGN.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 68. Under § 53 there is a proposal received by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with Article 53. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53 which shall become § 69 by proposing: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1, Paragraph 1, point (c) shall be amended as follows: (c) Points 53 to 57 shall be created: "53." The restructuring firm is a restructuring body pursuant to § 1, point (b) of the Restructuring Communication. 42 of the additional provisions of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. 54. The group from a third country is a group whose parent undertaking is based in a third country. 55. A gender-neutral remuneration policy is a remuneration policy based on equal pay for men and women for equal or equal work. 56. "Institution" is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 3 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 57. "Anonymised information' is information that, according to existing best practices, has been amended to limit the risk of directly or indirectly identifying the persons to whom it relates. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1a, in the text before paragraph 2. 1 the words "mother credit institution in a Member State', "EU parent credit institution' shall be replaced by "European Union parent credit institution'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... (1) By 28 June 2021, financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies operating on 27 June 2019 shall apply for approval under art. 35a. (2) If a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company does not apply within the period under para. 1, BNB shall apply supervisory measures under Article 1. 103b. (3) Within the term under para. 1 BNB may exercise all supervisory powers conferred on it by this law against financial holding companies or mixed financial holding companies subject to approval under art. 35a, for the purposes of supervision on a consolidated basis. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 55, which shall become § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. A group of third countries at which the total value of assets in the European Union on 27 June 2019 is equal to or greater than EUR 40 billion shall, by 30 December 2023, have one or two intermediate parent undertakings from the European Union, in accordance with art. 101a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 72. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 57, which shall become § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129, para. 3 the words in 7 days from the date of the audit report shall be replaced by the initial statement of assurance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 230 para. 2 is amended as follows: 2 Group within the meaning of this Chapter is a group within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 138 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 is added at the end, and none of its subsidiaries is a credit institution. (bb) c. 2 a comma is finally placed and one of its subsidiaries is added, not a credit institution authorised in a Member State, and there are no other investment firms; (c) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the parent undertaking of two or more investment firms authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria and in one or more other Member States is the same parent financial holding company in a Member State, European Union parent financial holding company, European Union mixed financial holding company or mixed financial holding company in a Member State, there is no credit institution authorised in a Member State, and the investment firm with the largest balance sheet number in the group is the one authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria; (dd) To be established. 4. "4." is required consolidation according to art. 18 (3) or (6) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 by the Commission and the investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria has a larger balance sheet number than other investment firms. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: (2) In the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 3 and 4 where the Commission supervises on an individual basis more than one investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria within the group, the Commission shall also supervise on a consolidated basis where the amount of the balance sheet numbers of investment firms authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria is greater than the amount of the balance sheet numbers of investment firms subject to supervision on an individual basis by each of the other competent authorities. (c) paragraphs 3 and 4 are repealed; (d) in para. 5 in the sentence first, the words "supplied' are deleted, the need to ensure the continuity of supervision on a consolidated basis is added, and thirdly after the words "supplied' is added by the European Union and the words "in a Member State' in the Republic of Bulgaria' shall be replaced by "the European Union'. (e) in para. 6 The Words under para. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the amount of aid referred to in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 258, para. 3, p. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / Under § 58, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version in 58, which shall become § 75: ................................................................................... In the Law on Deposit Guarantee in Banks (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 144, para. 1 of the Law on the Recovery and 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 103, para. 2, p. 4 - 9, 13 - 15, 17 (b) in para. 5 words................................................................................. 36, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 36, para. One, two and three. (c) in para. 15 the words "up to 1 March" shall be replaced by "up to 31 March." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 76.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u49	Thank you. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 64; the Commission's proposal to create paragraphs 65, 66 and 67, which shall be the text of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 68; the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 69 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission in the text of the paragraph; the text of the importer with the name of the division; the translation proposed by the Commission for the text of § 54, which shall be § 70; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 55, which shall become § 71; the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 72; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 57, which shall become § 74; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 58; and the importer for § 75; and the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 76. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u50	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 77, 78 and 79: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is repealed. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 shall be added after the words 'co-operate for'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16, p. 16 cases are added after the words....................................................................................................... § 78. In the Law on Countering Corruption and the Detainment of Illegally Acquired Property (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 80, para. 1 after the word "Constitution" is added or the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. § 79. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities (prom., SG No. (c) in § 42 of the transitional and concluding provisions, the words Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 80: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment enterprises (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 35, para. 1, t. 5 words................................................................................. 103, para. 2, p. 16, 23, 24 or 25........................................................................................................... 103, para. 2, p. 16, 24 or 25. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 60, which shall become § 81: ........ 81...................................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 56, paragraph 1. Point (d) of Article 4 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation is replaced by the following: 20 and 21, etc. 5, as regards para. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 73: .............................................................................. Paragraph 72 shall not apply to insolvency proceedings under the Bankruptcy Act opened until the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u51	Thank you. Statements? I put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 77, 78 and 79 with a text under the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 80, according to the Commission Report; and the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 60 and 61, which become paragraphs 81 and 73 respectively. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. The proposed texts have been voted on. We continue with the next item of the Programme: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RECOGNITION AND RESTRUCTURING OF CREDIT AND INVESTRUCTURIES. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Here you are, Mrs. Ilieva, to present to us the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, before I introduce the House to the Report, the clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the hall of Marinela Petrova
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u53	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 83 MPs: 79, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u54	"Repair and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. Proposal of the National Representative Evgenia Angelova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 sentence second words................................................................................................ 15, para. 1, t. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5, by proposing para. 13 to be amended as follows: In the review and update of the plan under para. 12 The resolution authority shall set the deadlines for meeting the requirements laid down in art. 70 or 70a, or according to art. 69a, para. Art. 7 - 10, respectively 69a, para. Art. 11, Art. 13, Art. 69a, para. 16, taking into account the deadline for implementing the recommendation of the competent authority for additional own funds under art. 79d, para. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are 1. Alinea 3 is canceled. 2. In para. 4 in the text before t. 1 the words supposed to be taken into account are replaced by the resolution supposed to be taken into account. 3. A new para is being created. 5. . (5) In accordance with the measures under para. 4 the group resolution plan shall define the resolution entities and the resolution groups. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the restructuring actions to be undertaken against the resolution entities in the scenarios provided for in art. 14, para. 5 as well as the consequences of these actions with regard to other companies under art. 1, para. 1, t. 5 of the group, the parent undertaking and the subsidiaries; (b) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." the resolution actions to be taken against resolution entities by each resolution group where the group includes more than one resolution group, as well as the consequences of those actions for other entities, by the same resolution group, and for the other resolution groups; c) the current t. 2 becomes t. 3 and in it, the words "the entities of the group' shall be replaced by "the entities of the group' and the words "some entities of the group' or of certain entities of the group' shall be replaced by "several entities of the group' or "the entities of the group' or "the groups'; (d) the so-called t. 3 and 4 are respectively t. 4 and 5; (e) the current t. 5 is going to be t. 6 and amended as follows: It's six. other actions which the resolution authorities concerned intend to take with regard to entities in each resolution group; (f) the current t. 6 is going to be t. 7. 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. 6, p. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 7, p. 7. Previously on AMC's... 8 " 10" became respectively. 9.. 11......... 11..................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8, by proposing in paragraph 7. The 4th sentence first to be amended as follows: "Every single decision under para. 4 is motivated, contains the grounds for disagreement with the proposed group resolution plan and takes into account the views and objections of the other resolution authorities and the competent authorities. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9, and shall propose in paragraph 8. 1 sentence second to be amended as follows: The self-motivating decision is motivated, contains the grounds for disagreement with the proposed group resolution plan and takes into account the views and objections of the other resolution authorities and the competent authorities. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 9, which becomes § 10, by proposing that the word "title" be replaced by the "Name."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u55	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for the name of the Law, as well as the text of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2 and 3; the Commission proposal to create a new § 4 with a text on the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 4 which becomes § 5 with the Commission proposal for editorial amendments to the text of the paragraph; the text of the importer for § 7 which becomes § 8 with the proposal for editorial amendments to the text; the text of the importer for § 9, which becomes § 10 with the proposal for replacement in the text; the version proposed in the text of § 5, which becomes § 6; the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 7. Vote 85 MPs: 79, none, abstention 6. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u56	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13, by proposing in the text prior to that. 1 words.............................................................................. 28c "to be replaced by........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 the word "Society" to be replaced by "Society." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 14, by proposing in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 92, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: Paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following: 4 the word "Nine" to be replaced by the number "Nine" is replaced by the number "Nine" is replaced by the number "Nine" is replaced by the number "Nine" is replaced by "Nine" is replaced by "Nine" is replaced by "Nine" is replaced by "Nine" is replaced by "Nine" is replaced by "Nine" is The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer by proposing that § 14 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 13, art. 28a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15 by proposing in para. 4 in the text before t. 1 the words.. 2 and 2 shall be replaced by........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1 words.............................................................................. 92, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: Article 92 (1) (b) (i) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 to be amended as follows: ..10. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 11 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): In the case of the undertaking, the entity concerned shall be added to the undertaking. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, proposing: Point 3 to be amended as follows: "3." In para. The second sentence of the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence of the report. The second sentence of the statement is replaced by the "In the report', and after the words "in relation to the group's group, a comma is placed and added to the group's resolution groups where the group consists of more than one resolution group.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6, new para. 6 words................................................................................. 70 and 70a "s' shall be replaced by "s'. 70 or 70 a.s.; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 11 the word "supplied" to be replaced by the number "supposed to" and "supplied" to be replaced by the number 4. Points 14 and 15 are amended as follows: It's 14 years old. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 15 and in it the words of the seasons according to para. The period of time referred to in paragraph 8 shall be replaced by the date of entry into force of this Agreement by the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 11, respectively, under para. 12 and a comma is placed and the words aal. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 6.................................................................................. 15. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 16 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The words of the group under para 15 and the words of the group under para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, proposing: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 words under art. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) in para. 4 words to be taken by the subsidiary in accordance with the (b) in para. 5 the words supplied and taken into account to be replaced by supplied in it shall be reported; (c) in para. 6 words.................................................................... The following shall be added to the list of persons, entities and bodies 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 before the words "al." To 4. In point (a), point (a) (a) in para. 8 the (b) in para. 9 the word "prescribing" to be replaced by "rescribing." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u57	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for paragraphs 10 and 11, which shall become paragraphs 11 and 12 respectively; the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of Paragraph 14, which the Commission shall propose to be rejected as reflected in § 13, art. 28a; the text of the importer for § 15 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 16 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 17 with the amendments proposed by the Commission and the text of the importer for paragraphs 18, 19 and 20. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u58	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 51a: "Recruitment of an institution or entity not subject to resolution action Art. 51a. Institution or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. The resolution authority referred to in Article 5 shall, in respect of which the resolution authority referred to in Article 5 has been designated by the resolution authority referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2 or under art. 3 has established that the conditions under art. 51, para. 1, t. 1 and 2, but taking a restructuring action would not be in the public interest under art. 51, para. 1, t. 3 shall be terminated by insolvency, liquidation or in accordance with the relevant legislation. Under § 22 there is a proposal of the National Representative Evgenia Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words..................................................................................... A comma shall be placed and added to the list of points (a), (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of 2. Alinei 2 s 4 are amended as follows: 2 The resolution authority concerned shall take restructuring actions with regard to a company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 4 or 5 where the conditions for restructuring under art. 5 are met for the company. 51, para. 1. (3) Where the subsidiaries of a mixed-activity holding company are owned directly or indirectly by an intermediate financial holding company, the group's restructuring plan shall indicate the intermediate financial holding company as a restructuring entity. For the purpose of restructuring the group, the resolution authority concerned may take restructuring actions with regard to the intermediate financial holding company, but not with regard to the mixed holding company. (4) Subject to para. 3, regardless of the company referred to in Article 3. 1, para. 1, t. 4 or 5 does not meet the conditions for restructuring under art. 51, para. 1, the resolution authority concerned may take restructuring actions against it, provided that: 1. the company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 4 or 5 is a restructuring entity; 2. one or several of the subsidiaries of the company under point 2. 1 which are institutions, but are not restructuring entities, meet the conditions for restructuring under art. 51, para. 1, and 3. due to the type of assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries under point 3. 2, failure to fulfil obligations on their part threatens the restructuring group as a whole and the restructuring of subsidiaries which are institutions or the restructuring of the resolution group concerned as a whole. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 by proposing: "1." In para. 3 the words "inclusive" shall be replaced by "inclusive." 2. Alinea 5 to be amended as follows: s (5) The resolution authority shall determine as soon as possible the suspension of the execution under para. 1 needed to achieve the objectives under para. 1, t. 3 and 4 which may not exceed the period from the time of publication of the stop message in accordance with art. 115, para. 3, p. 1 to midnight on the next working day. 3. In para. 11 words "in the order of' shall be replaced by "in the order of'; Proposal of the National Representative Evgenia Angelova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 94, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 94.................................................................................................. 722, para. Article 2 is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 8 shall be inserted in Chapter 8. 55a: The selection of an independent valuer Art. 55a. The order and conditions for the selection of independent valuers by the authority under art. 2 for the purposes of art. Art. 55 and art. 106 are determined by a regulation of BNB. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 28, and shall propose in paragraph 28. 1 at the end to be added.............................................................................................. 25 of Regulation (EU) No The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29, and shall propose to the Commission in that regard. 1, new para. 2 after the words "restructuring', and to be added to the "debts'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 30: 30. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 67a: sales of subordinated eligible liabilities to retail clients Art. 67a. For transactions in financial instruments that fulfil the conditions for eligible obligations under art. Article 72a (1) (a) and (2) and Article 72a (1) (b) 72b, paragraphs 1, 2, 6 and 7 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the seller may only make the sale to a non-professional client if the nominal value of the instrument is not less than the remaining equivalent of EUR 50,000 and after carrying out an assessment of appropriateness under art. 78 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u59	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 21; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 22; the text of the importer for § 23 with the proposal for editorial amendments to the text; the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 24 with the text of the Commission; the text of the importer for § 26; the text of the importer for § 26, which becomes § 28 with the proposal to add to the text of the paragraph; the text of the importer for § 27, which becomes § 29 with the editorial amendments to the text proposed by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 28, which becomes § 30; and the text of the importer for § 29, which becomes § 31. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The texts put to the vote have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u60	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 32, by proposing a point. 4 to be amended as follows: "4." In para. 8 words The Bulgarian National Bank, respectively the Commission, shall be replaced by the Board of Restructuring under art. Art. 2, respectively 3................................................................................................. 70, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 70 and 70 a.s. and the second sentence is deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31 which shall become § 33 by proposing: "1." Alinea 1 to be amended as follows: 1 The amount of own funds and eligible liabilities of the resolution entities shall include liabilities that meet the conditions of art. Art. 72a, Art. Art. 72b (1) (a) and (b) 72c of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2. In para. 2 the word "this" shall be deleted. 3. Alinea 3 to be amended as follows: In the case of debt instruments with embedded derivatives as structured bonds that meet the conditions under Article 3 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported. Art. 72a (1) and (2) (a), Art. 72a (1) and (2) Art. 72b (1) (a) and (b) 72c of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 shall be included in the amount of own funds and eligible liabilities where one of the following conditions is met with regard to the obligation: 1. the principal of the debt arising from the debt instrument is known at the time of issue, fixed or increased and is not affected by the characteristics of the embedded derivative and the total amount of the debt resulting from the debt instrument, including the embedded derivative, can be assessed daily against an active and liquid bidirectional market for an equivalent instrument without credit risk in accordance with art. 104 and 105 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; 2. the debt instrument includes a contractual clause under which the amount of the claim, both in the event of insolvency and in the case of the issuer's restructuring, is fixed or increasing and does not exceed the initially paid amount for the debt. 4. In para. 7 words to be replaced by a global systemically significant institution (G-SII). 5. In para. 11 words from the application of the formula under para. 16, p. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union 6. In para. 12, c. 2 the word "s' to be replaced by "s'. 7. In para. 16, ct. 1 digit..8. to be replaced by 8. In para. 20 ct. 3 words, except for Art. Art. 72b (2) (d) 72b paragraph 1 paragraph 2 points (b) and (c) and (d) and paragraphs 3 The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 34, by proposing in para. 1, ct. 2 the words "entitys" under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 to be replaced by companies under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 " 5" and the words " " (OJ L 173, 12 June 2014) (OJ L 173/349 of 12 June 2014) , hereinafter referred to as The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 35, by proposing: "1." In para. 4 the words "supplied', provided that they are replaced by "supplied'. 2. In para. 7 Subjects under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 to be replaced by the company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3.. 5............................................................................... 3. In para. 8 words to be deleted, and the words to the subject art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 to be replaced by the company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3.. 5............................................................................... 4. In para. 9 the word "to be replaced by "to be replaced" and the words "transitional provisions" of "to be deleted." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 36, by proposing: "1." Alinea first to change like this: s (1) For a restructuring entity to which art. 1 (a) does not apply 92a of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and which is part of a restructuring group whose total assets exceed the remaining equivalent of EUR 100 billion, the minimum level of the requirement under art. 69c is: 1.13 whole and five percent when calculated as a percentage of total risk exposure according to art. 69, para. 2, p. 1, and 2. five per cent when calculated as a percentage of the measure for total exposure in accordance with art. 69, para. 2, p. 2. 2. In para. 3 the word "suppose" to be replaced by "supplied" and the word "supplied" to be replaced by the number "supplied" "supplied" is replaced by "supposed" and the word "supplied" is replaced by the number "supposed" "supposed" is replaced by the number "supposed" "supposed" is replaced by "supposed" and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 37, by proposing: "1." In para. 1, t. 1 in the text before the letter................................................................................... 2 in the text before the letter..... when determining the requirement in accordance with................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 6 sentence first, the word "supposed" to be deleted. 3. In para. 7 the words "the entity under art. 7 the words "the entity under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 to be replaced by the company under art. 1, para. 1, t. The words "to" shall be replaced by the words "to" shall be replaced by the words "to" shall be replaced by the words "to" shall be replaced by the words "to" shall be replaced by "to" shall be replaced by the words "to" to "to" shall be replaced by "to" shall be replaced by "to" shall be replaced by "to" to "to" the 4. In para. 8 the words "the entity under art. 8 the words "the entity under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 to be replaced by the company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3.. 5............................................................................... 5. In para. 9 the word "to be replaced by "to be replaced" and the words "transitional provisions" of "to be deleted." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 38 by proposing in para. 1, t. 2 the words.................................................................... For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: In paragraph 3, the following paragraph is added: 5 BC. 103a, para. 2 "To be added to the list of items in Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 39. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 38 which becomes § 40 by proposing in para. 3 words to be replaced by mothers from the European Union and in para. 7, p. 3 prior to the words............................................................................................... 89, para. 1.. 4. to be added......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall propose the text of the importer for § 39 which shall become § 41 by proposing: "1." In para. 4 the words "mother from the EU" to be replaced by "mother from the European Union." 2. In para. 9 in the text before t. 1 the words "in the four words" shall be replaced by "in the four words" within the four words. 3. In para. 11, p. 1 the words of the hundred hundred and two hundred shall be replaced by the words of the hundred and the words of the hundred and two hundred and the words shall be replaced 4. In para. 13 the word "supplied" to be replaced by the figure "supplied." 5. In para. 14 After the words............................................................................................... 2 sc to add 3 sc. 6. In para. The 15th sentence is the second words. 1.. 14. to be replaced by........................................................................................................ 1 "Sixty-three" Presiding EMIL CHRISTOV Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 30 which becomes § 32 with the proposed editorial amendments by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 31 which becomes § 33 with the proposed editorial amendments by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 34 with the proposed editorial amendments; the text of the importer for § 34 which becomes § 36 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 35 which becomes § 37 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 38 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 37 which becomes § 39; the text of the importer for § 38 which becomes § 40 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; and the text of the importer for § 39, which becomes § 41 with the amendments proposed by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 87, none, abstention 4. The tests put to the vote have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u61	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 40, which becomes § 42, by proposing in para. 5, in the text before t. 1 the word "supplied" to be replaced by the number "supplied," in para. 9 the word "supplied" to replace with the number "supplied" and to add sentence two: "In this case, the decision is binding on BNB, respectively, for the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 43. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 42, which becomes § 44 by proposing in para. 3 the word "six" to be replaced by the number "six." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 48. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 84 is amended as follows: supposed recognition of loss sharing Art. 84. (1) In the agreements or instruments giving rise to obligations to which they are parties, institutions and companies under art. 1, para. 1, t. In order to ensure that the creditor or other parties to the agreement or instrument are aware that a particular obligation can be devalued or converted and agree to accept a reduction in principal or amount due, conversion or depreciation that is carried out as a result of the exercise of those powers by a resolution authority, provided that such obligation: 1. shall not be excluded in accordance with Article 1. 66, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. is not a deposit which is satisfied in accordance with the order of art. 94, para. 1, t. 4a of the Bankruptcy Act; 3. shall be governed by the law of a third country, and 4. has been issued or taken over after the entry into force of this law. (2) The requirement under para. 1 shall not apply where the resolution authority finds that it can exercise the depreciation and conversion powers in respect of the liabilities under para. 1 under the legislation of the third country or binding agreement concluded with it. (3) The resolution authority under art. 2 or 3 may not apply para. 1 to an institution or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. The minimum requirement referred to in Article 3 (a) and (b) shall not exceed the minimum requirement laid down in Article 3 (5). 69, para. 1 is equal to the amount to cover losses determined under art. 69b, para. 2, p. 1 where the obligations which meet the conditions under para. 1 and which do not include a contractual clause under para. 1 shall not be taken into account for the purposes of this requirement. (4) Where it finds that from a legal or other point of view it is impossible to include a contractual clause under para. 1 in an agreement or instrument subject to satisfaction in the insolvency proceedings prior to the obligations under art. 94, para. 1, t. 11 - 15 of the Bankruptcy Act, the institution or the company under art. 1, para. 1, t. The resolution authority shall inform the resolution authority, indicating the class of liabilities and the reasons for its finding. In this case, the fulfilment of the obligation to include a contractual clause shall cease from the moment of receipt of the notification by the resolution authority. (5) The resolution authority shall assess the possibility of including a contractual clause under para. 1 in the agreement or instrument under para. 1 and the consequences of the notification on the possibility of restructuring the institution or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 - 5 and may request additional information from the institution or company for this purpose. (6) Upon reaching the conclusion that from a legal or other point of view it is possible to include a contractual clause under para. 1 in the agreement or instrument under para. 1, the resolution authority shall take into account the need to ensure the resolution of the institution or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 - and requires the institution or company to include such a contractual clause. (7) In the cases under para. 6 the resolution authority may request from the institution or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 "5' to amend its practices on the application of the exemption from contractual recognition of loss-sharing. (8) Alinei 4 s 7 shall not apply to Additional Tier 1 instruments, Tier 2 instruments and debt instruments with which debt is created or recognised where those instruments are unsecured. (9) Where the resolution authority in the assessment of the possibility of restructuring under art. 26 and 27 or at any other time finds that within a class of liabilities which includes eligible liabilities, the amount of liabilities which, in accordance with para. 4 do not include a contractual clause under para. 1 together with liabilities excluded from the application of the loss-sharing instrument in accordance with art. 66, para. 2 or which are likely to be excluded in accordance with art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 and 2 exceeds 10 percent of this class, it shall immediately assess the consequences of this circumstance with regard to the possibility of restructuring the institution or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 "5" including the consequences associated with the risk of affecting the safeguard mechanisms for creditors under art. 105, when applying the powers to devaluation and conversion of eligible liabilities. (10) Where, on the basis of the valuation under para. 9 the resolution authority concludes that the obligations under para. 1 in respect of which a contractual clause is not included under para. 1 create a significant obstacle to the possibility of restructuring, it exercises the powers under art. 29, to the extent appropriate to remedy this obstacle to the possibility of restructuring. (11) The obligations under para. 1 in respect of which an institution or a company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 "5" does not include a contractual clause under para. 1 or for which, in accordance with para. 4 - 10, the requirement for such a contractual clause shall not apply, shall not be taken into account for the purpose of fulfilling the minimum own funds requirement and eligible liabilities. (12) The resolution authority may require from the institution or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 - 5 to provide a legal opinion on the possibilities to ensure the implementation and effectiveness of the contract clause under para. 1. (13) Where an institution or a company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 " 5" does not include in an agreement or instrument under para. 1 contractual clause under para. 1 This shall not prevent the resolution authority from exercising the impairment and conversion powers in respect of the obligation arising from the agreement or instrument. (14) On the basis of the regulatory technical standards developed by EBA, the resolution authority may determine specific categories of obligations to which the institution or the company under art. 1, t. In the case of a contract clause, it is not possible to include a contractual clause under para 5 that is legally or otherwise not possible to apply the finding that it is legally or otherwise possible to include a contractual clause under para. 1 in agreement or instrument under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 48, which becomes § 50, by proposing that the word "title" be replaced by the "Name." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 49, which becomes § 51, by proposing in para. 6 words for the fair treatment of the debtors shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 52, by proposing in paragraph 50. 1 point (b) to be amended as follows: (b) (i.e. 1 after the words..................................................................................... The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 91, para. 5 after the words the corresponding equity instruments shall be added, or the eligible liabilities under art. 89, para. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u62	Thank you. Statements? I shall put to the vote: the text of the importer for § 40, which becomes § 42 with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 41, which shall be § 43; the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 44; the text of the importer for paragraphs 43, 44 and 45, which shall become paragraphs 45, 46 and 47; the text of the importer for § 46, which shall be § 48; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 47, which shall become § 49; the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 50; the text of the importer for paragraphs 49, 50 and 51, which shall become paragraphs 51, 52 and 53, with the amendments proposed by the Commission in all three texts. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Thirty minutes of interruption. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u63	Let's get back to work. Everyone, please put on your masks. Masks, please. Continue, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u64	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 54, by proposing in point 2. 3 point (b) to be amended as follows: (b) (i.e. 2 in the text prior to the letter...................................................................................................... 89, para. 5 ";." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 55. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94, para. 2, p. 5 and 6 and everywhere in t. 10 the words "acceptable liabilities' shall be replaced by "debts that share losses'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 59, by proposing in paragraph 1. 2, para. 6 words, including........................................................................................................................ The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 58, which becomes § 60, by proposing a point. 2 to be amended as follows: "2." central counterparties authorised in the European Union pursuant to art. 14 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, as well as third-country central counterparties recognised by ESMA pursuant to art. 25 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012; The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 59, which becomes § 61, by proposing a point. 2 to be amended as follows: "2." central counterparties authorised in the European Union pursuant to art. 14 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, as well as third-country central counterparties recognised by ESMA pursuant to art. 25 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 62. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 63: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 106 is . (4) The assessment under para. 1 in cases where the BNB is a resolution authority, an independent valuer shall be appointed according to the order of the ordinance under art. 55a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 61, which shall become § 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 66, by proposing a point. 1 to be amended as follows: "1." In para. 1 the words of that law and the resolution authorities of the other Member States shall be replaced by the resolution authorities of the Member States where the subsidiaries and significant branches are established. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 67. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 136. 1, t. 7 the words "up to 31 March" shall be replaced by "up to 30 April." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 71, by proposing: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 letter (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (s) to (b) The creation of a t. 5a: 5a. A Global Systemically Important Institution (G-SII) is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 133 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* "Further It's 28a. "Combined buffer requirement" is a concept within the meaning of art. 39, para. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act. ==References=====External links===* "Further readings"* "Further It's 46a. "Subordinated eligible liabilities" are instruments that meet all the conditions under art. Art. 72a. 72b (1), (2), (6) and (7) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; point 56 is amended as follows: ..56. "Acceptable liabilities' are liabilities and equity instruments that share losses and which meet the conditions under art. Art. 69a or art. 70a, para. 5, t. 1 as well as Tier 2 instruments that meet the conditions of art. Article 72a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2. Paragraph 2 shall be amended as follows: "2." In Paragraph 4, the final addition is made to Directive (EU) 2019/879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2014/59/EU as regards the capacity to absorb losses and recapitalisation of credit institutions and investment firms and Directive 98/26/EC (OJ L 150/296 of 7 June 2019). supposed to be at the end of the restructuring period. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 72, by proposing a point. 1 to be amended as follows: "1." In the name the words "al." 11 and 12 are replaced by "al'. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become § 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 75 by proposing: "1." In the name everywhere, the words "c'. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, 2. Point 1 shall be amended as follows: "1." The maximum allocation amount in relation to the minimum own funds requirement and eligible liabilities (M-MFF) shall be calculated by multiplying the value obtained in accordance with point 3. 2 times the coefficient determined in accordance with t. 3 and the result shall be reduced by the amount resulting from any of the actions under art. 28a................................................................................................. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 all over the word "The multiplier" to be replaced by "The Value." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 72, which shall become § 76.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u65	I open discussions on the paragraphs proposed to your attention with a new numbering from 54 to 76 inclusive. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I am voting § 52, which becomes § 54; § 53, which becomes § 55 by importer; § 54, which becomes § 56 by version of the Commission; § 55 and § 56 which become § 57 and § 58 by importer; § 57 § 58 § 59, which becomes § 59, § 60 and § 61 by version of the Commission; § 60 which becomes § 62 by importer; the text of the new § 63 proposed by the Commission; § 61 and § 62 respectively which become § 64 and § 65 by importer; § 63, which becomes § 66 by version of the Commission; § 64 by new numbering § 67 by importer; the text of the new § 68 proposed by the Commission; § 65 and § 66, which become § 69 and § 70 by importer; § 67 and § 68, which become § 71 and § 72 by version of the Commission; § 69 and § 70, which become § 73 and § 74 by importer; § 71, which becomes the Commission's wording 75, and § 72, and § 72, which receives a new numbering § 76 by importer. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The listed paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u66	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 73, which becomes § 77, by proposing in para. 1 after the words. 1, para. 1, t. In addition, the Commission notes that it is necessary to establish whether the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become § 78. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 75, which shall become § 79. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 76, which shall become § 80: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 103a shall apply to financial contracts concluded until the entry into force of this law, which create new obligations or substantially amend existing obligations after the entry into force of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 77, which shall become § 81 by proposing: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 point (b) to be amended as follows: (b) in para. 3 the words "a branch or representative' shall be replaced by a branch or representative established in the territory of another Member State. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 7, Art. 130, para. 1, the created t. 7 to be amended as follows: "7." A clearing member of a central co-controller authorised in accordance with art. 17 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OJ L 201/1 of 27 July 2012) .?.......................................................................................................... 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 8, Art. 147, para. 6 the words "RINGS" shall be replaced by "RINGS" under art. 145, para. 4. In point (a), point (a) is (a) c. 24a the words "payment" shall be replaced by a credit transfer. (b) c. 65 words is a central counterparty (SCB) to be replaced by a Proposal of the National Representative Evgenia Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 82: ............................................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u67	I open the debates on the name of the section Transitional and Final Provisions; § 73, which becomes § 77; § 74, which becomes § 78; § 75, respectively, receives a new numbering; § 79; § 76, which becomes § 80; § 77, which becomes § 81, and the text of the new § 82. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the section Transitional and Final Provisions; the wording of § 73, which becomes § 77 by the wording of the Commission; § 74, which becomes § 78 by importer; § 75 which becomes § 79; § 76, which becomes § 80 by the wording of the Commission; § 77, which becomes § 81 by the wording of the new § 82. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The bill has been passed. Moving on to the last item on the adopted agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPANIES WITH A SPECIAL INVESSITIONAL TARGET AND THE COMPANIES FOR SECURITISATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers of 6 January 2021. Mr. Kanev, please present the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u68	Colleagues, first of all, I will ask for permission in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. From the Ministry of Finance "Marinella Petrova" Deputy Minister, and Hristina Penditcheva State Expert; from the Financial Supervision Commission "Maria Filipova" Vice-President, and Denitsa Markova "Director of the Directorate."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u69	Voting regime for admission to the Chamber. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. Please take your seats. Go on, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u70	♪ I can't believe on a special investment firm bill and securitisation companies No 102-01-3 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 January 2021. At its regular meeting on 27 January 2021, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Bill on Special Investment Purpose Companies and securitisation companies. The Law repealed the Act in force on special investment companies. The draft plan aims to update the legislative base in the field of real estate and receivables companies and to introduce measures for the application of the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 of 12 December 2017. The activities of special investment firms are settled and to a large extent the existing legal basis is maintained. Based on the supervisory practice of the Financial Supervision Commission on the implementation of the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act, the legal framework shall be further developed and updated with the concepts introduced by the Regulation. In order to facilitate the process of setting up special investment firms, the requirement to be subscribed by institutional investors in order to establish it at least 30 percent of the company's capital is dropped. Such a company may acquire real estate situated in the territory of another Member State. In this regard, requirements are introduced for valuers of such properties. It is possible to acquire agricultural land worth less than BGN 20 000. the company shall not carry out an assessment prior to acquisition. The term "third party' replaces the current concept of "service company' due to the introduction of the concept of "service undertaking' of a securitisation company. Additional requirements shall be provided for the members of the management bodies of the special investment firms as well as for independent valuers who are to carry out an assessment of the properties which the company intends to acquire or sell. Legal arrangements of securitisation companies are introduced which are organised in the form of a public limited liability company and which should have initial capital of 50 000 BGN. and a licence to operate by the Financial Supervision Commission. According to the Regulation, issued securitisation instruments by these companies are not suitable for retail investors, therefore a minimum amount of BGN 500 000 has been introduced. of the underlying exposures subject to a securitisation in which a securitisation company may participate. The regulation and supervision of the activities and persons under Title 2 of the Law will be carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission, and in Title 3 the supervision of the originator, sponsor, original creditor, agent for simplified, transparent and standardised securitisation and the securitisation company by the Financial Supervision Commission, respectively by the alternate vice-president, except for cases provided in the explicit competence of the Bulgarian National Bank. The Bill also provides for appropriate administrative sanctions and forced administrative measures in compliance with the amounts set out in the Regulation. In the course of the discussion the Executive Director of the Central Depository Vasil Golemanski presented a proposal for amendment between the two votes of the Draft Law in the Financial Supervision Commission Act and the Financial Instruments Markets Act. It stems from the need to settle the status of the clearing house in the Bulgarian legislation in relation to an uncertain mechanism of payment in transactions concluded by the Bulgarian independent energy exchange and aims for greater stability and transparency in the relevant markets. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on Special Investment Purpose Companies and securitisation companies, No 102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kanev as always punctual, brilliant. I now give the floor to the Committee on Budget and Finance to brief us on their report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u72	Mr President, honourable Members, your attention is to: ♪ I can't believe on a special investment firm bill and securitisation companies No 102-01-3 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 January 2021. At a meeting held on 28 January 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined a Bill on Special Investment Purpose Companies and on securitisation companies, No 102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 January 2021. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The draft Special Investment Purposes Act and the securitisation companies, hereinafter referred to as the Bill, aims to update the legislative base in the field of existing real estate and receivables companies and aims to introduce measures for the application of the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 laying down a common framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simplified, transparent and standardised securitisations and amending Directives 2009/65/EC, 2009/138/EC and 2011/61/EU and Regulations (EC) No 1060/2009 and (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ, L 347/35 of 28 December 2017) . Title 2 governs the activities of special investment purpose companies which, to a large extent, retain the existing legal framework of those companies by further developing on the basis of the Commission's accumulated supervisory practice on the implementation of the Special Investment Purposes Act and aims to adapt the legal framework with a view to the securitisation concepts introduced by Regulation (EU) 2017/2402, the special purpose entity (s) and the possibility of serving an undertaking of those companies under that Regulation. In order to introduce measures in national law on the application of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402, legal arrangements are proposed for the special purpose companies of a securitisation holding company in the form of a joint stock holding company, the legal framework of which is contained in Title 3 of the Bill. In relation to the requirements of art. 27, § 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 the figure of an agent for simplified, transparent and standardised securitisation (TSB compliance agent) shall be entered. This person will have the right to assess the compliance of securitisations with the simplification, transparency and standardisation requirements under Regulation (EU) 2017/2402. The regulation and supervision of the activities and persons under the third-party originator, sponsor, original creditor, TSO compliance agent and securitisation company shall be carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission, respectively, by the competent authority of the Commission as the competent authority within the meaning of art. 29 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 except those granted in the explicit competence of the Bulgarian National Bank. The bill also introduces the relevant administrative sanctions and enforcement administrative measures laid down pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2017/2402, taking into account the amounts set out in the Regulation. The new regulatory regimes resulting from the introduction of measures into national law to introduce measures for the application of the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 imply a change in fees in Section I, point IV and Section II, point I of the Annex to art. 27, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. The Law on the Public Offering of Securities aligns the provisions on the liability of the registered auditor with regard to damages [[noise and lines]] , caused by the financial statements audited by it...............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u73	Please be quiet and put on your masks!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the discussion, the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their basic support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: with 16 votes "for" and "abstained" the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for the special investment companies and for the securitisation companies, No 102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a Bill on Special Investment Purpose Companies and on securitisation companies No 102-01-3 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 January 2021. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The bill has been passed. Procedure Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u76	Colleagues, in the form of a communication procedure: the meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is in half an hour in Hall 456.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-03.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting will be held tomorrow " (February 4th 2021) in the Chamber of the National Assembly. [[PHONE RINGING]]
