ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Here you are, Mr. Popov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u2	Thank you. Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal that today's plenary session be broadcast on BNT 1 and BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u3	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please vote on this procedural proposal. They voted 121 MPs: 118, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. Before we start with item one of today's agenda, I will read you a communication on parliamentary control: Parliamentary control today will not take place due to the inability of members of the Council of Ministers to participate, which they have certified in the appropriate order and in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. [[(Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria:]] Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the ministers, although they are resigned, are still ministers, and as much as they wish not to be held accountable, they are yet to answer questions and possibly bear responsibility. The first questions to be answered are from the MPs over 100, as far as I have information, and you are allowing this thing not to happen. The rules, which is a law in this country, say that every Friday there is parliamentary control, and the ministers, together with the prime minister, who is no longer in quarantine, is no longer with a crutch, gives statements from wherever he can come, sit here and answer the questions raised to him, deputy prime ministers and ministers. I do not know on what grounds you are once again diverting the parliamentary control. Last week there wasn't, this week, which will probably be the last of the Bulgarian Parliament, again you want there to be no parliamentary control. I suggest that, Madam President, if these people do not want and resist coming to the Bulgarian Parliament, we make a deliberate decision now, honourable Members, the entire Council of Ministers should be called to come to plenary to answer the questions [[(Applause from IHN and BSP for Bulgaria]] which the Bulgarian society expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u5	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Obligation of the Council of Ministers to come to the National Assembly. With regard to control, the ministers shall have the right to postpone as required by the Rules of Procedure if they have given reasonable reasons for doing so. The communication with the specific grounds for delay has been provided to you in the parliamentary groups, so you could see why they delay and what are the reasons for this. Thank you. I put to the vote Mr. Svilensky's procedural proposal to oblige the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u6	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u7	On the basis of the Constitution, Mr. Nenkov. [[Noise and lines.]] We're in voting mode now. They voted 203 MPs: 116, against 64, abstention 23. [[Extreme applause.]] The motion is accepted. Revoting, Mr. Bikov? Please do the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u8	Madam President, we want a re-vote because we don't know what the punishment will be if they don't come. I suggest they resign once more if they don't appear. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u9	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Please, re-election mode. Vote 162 MPs: 123, against 22, abstention 17. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. Please inform the Council of Ministers of the decision of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Since the Rules and Decisions of the National Assembly are law, what will you then take to force the Council of Ministers to come to the seats and answer the relevant questions? And more importantly, when you call them now to call them to come, yet to tell them that, apart from having to answer these questions before us, they will soon have to answer questions from other institutions, so it is better to order and start with the answers from now on. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. That wasn't procedure. I think I've already notified the Council of Ministers. Thank you. We're moving on to the first item on the agenda for today... Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u12	Madam President, on Wednesday, you suspended the sitting in the middle of a second reading voting procedure to recalculate pensions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I am again proposing that we begin by voting on our procedural proposal for adoption at second reading, because during the debate at first reading there was no clear and specific request that proposals will be made between first and second. So the Rules give reason for voting on two readings and, as I say, the sitting has been suspended in the middle of the procedure itself, please continue from where it was terminated and put to the vote our proposal for recalculation of pensions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I will not allow this procedural proposal, as according to art. 53, para. 8 programs for Wednesday have been exhausted. Today we continue with the regular schedule for the week. [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] The Social Security Code was adopted in the first vote. I did not allow a procedure to move to a second vote, so we have not been in the voting procedure and I will not allow this proposal. Today we begin with the agenda on item one of our program for Friday. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, you can't, Mr. Svilensky. What's your procedure? About the way you're running things? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, Madam President, the Wednesday program has not been implemented. By a decision of the National Assembly, which is a law in the state, I will always say this when there is a decision of the National Assembly, the National Assembly has decided to work to a third point, including the National Assembly. Was there a dispute about whether I said "including" or not? You've read the transcript and you've seen that I've said to point three, including point three. That is to say, the decision of the National Assembly, which is a law in Bulgaria and must be respected by all Bulgarian citizens, together with the MPs, and you, because of a violation of the order in the Chamber, have suspended the meeting, provided that the Rules clearly tell you that a break is given, the Presidential Council, there are ways to reassure the House anyway, so today we have to finish that decision of the National Assembly, which we took on Wednesday, and it is to look at the points that we voted on, because otherwise we give an example of how we do not respect our own decisions, and we want the citizens of Bulgaria to respect them. So it is most painless for parliamentaryism, for you as chairman, to put it to the vote. If rejected, we are continuing on the agenda as it is. There is nothing scary yet another procedure against the backdrop of the many procedures that have been voted in the Bulgarian Parliament, another procedure for admission to second reading. It may be admitted, it may not be admitted. That will be the decision of 240 MPs. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u15	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Svilensky, the point on Wednesday was exhausted, the debate was closed and there was a vote at first reading of the Social Security Code, and the point was over. You asked for a second vote, which is another phase of the legislative process. In this case, I did not allow it to happen to you, because both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure say: "The National Assembly may exceptionally decide....... but this is exceptional when there is consensus in the Chamber. In the Chamber you saw three parliamentary groups... [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] Mr. Svilenski, three parliamentary groups have become negative and have expressed a negative attitude towards the procedure. Lasting parliamentary practice and the Constitutional Court's decisions are that, when there is discontent when there is a refusal to move on to a second vote, such a procedure is not allowed at all. I will not allow your procedural proposal. The item ended on Wednesday with its first vote, we are currently in the second vote procedure and in the making of a proposal between the first and the second vote on art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]] Moving on to item one of today's agenda: Hearing of the chairman and members of the committee... Here you go, Mrs. Tsoneva. [[Noise and lines.]] There's no point three, we're closing the Rules, Wednesday's over. Wednesday's Wednesday and it's over. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u16	Mrs. President, honourable Members, on behalf of I demand that this be done. Please don't chicane the agenda. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u17	Mrs. Tsoneva, I think I explained to you earlier. Article 8 53 only runs out on Wednesday. What remains on Wednesday's agenda, it ends on Wednesday and does not move on to the next agenda of the week.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u18	This isn't a legal seminar!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u19	Article 53, para. 8 is not the exception to the rules. This is the day of each parliamentary group, and this is just the day Wednesday, as far as the agenda goes. It can stop until the first point, it can stop to the second point, it can run out of the whole agenda. But Wednesday is over and today we move on to the rest of the programme that we voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u20	Please put it to the vote if you have to. The Democratic Bulgaria's group is insisting that the creation of the Committee for the Investigation of the enclave of Rosenets will be discussed at today's meeting. I know that there are parliamentary groups who are very worried about going through this litmus how they will vote to set up such a committee. I see that the group of GERB is also very excited. You, too, ladies and gentlemen, have a proposal for such a committee. Come on now, a little braver. Please, Madam President, do not throw this committee off the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u21	Mrs. Tsoneva, I can't break the rules. You've all been calling me from day one to follow it. You saw what happened on Wednesday, when I compromised with him, we all compromised, and even after agreement of the Conference of Presidents, you saw what happened in the Chamber. There will be no more compromise with the Rules of Procedure! You had the right to amend the Rules, you could have amended Art. 53, para. 8 of it and predict another order. [[noise and lines]] Such a proposal has not been made during the amendment of the Rules, that is, we are implementing the Rules as it stands. You have no right to make a procedural proposal, as your procedural proposal under art. 53, para. Eight is out. It's till 6:00 on Tuesday. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u22	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. It is obvious that there is no political will in this House, and you are serving it so that neither the 50 leva for the pensioners nor the Rosenets, nor the police violence. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u23	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u24	You're changing the whole agenda. You have the right to change it. Show your political will! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u25	Mrs. Capon, I'm applying the regulations. If you believe that the Rule of Law should not be applied, then let us work on Adhok rules. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsonev wanted the first word. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsonev, come in. [[Replications between MPs Maria Kapon and Yordan Tsonev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u26	The word is given by order of request, Mrs. Manolova. The chivalry will manifest it outside the hall. [[Applause from DPS.]] Madam President, honourable Members! First, in relation to para. The first day of the month. In all practice, I am almost 25 years in this National Assembly, never outside Wednesday has the agenda continued, that is to say, the privilege of the opposition to propose a law that is not put to the vote as an agenda, but must be seen! We've even had cases where the law ends in the middle, even if we don't vote. Never the next day! That's the rules, that's the rules. There's no way you'd want to do that. 8 to continue the debate the next day. This has just never happened, and it will not happen in this Parliament. With regard to the will for the Commission, the DPS will vote for and seek the Commission. [[Applause from DPS.]] We want the Commission, Rosenets! We have the will to have a Commission. We have the will for other social laws, but not through the head of the Rules, the Laws and the Constitution. If we're gonna do something, we're gonna do it the way the rules, the laws and the Constitution dictate. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u27	Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! In the consensus in the Chamber that no one objects to the third and fourth points that were included in the Programme for Wednesday, I ask you, in the terms of the Rules in force, to make a proposal for inclusion in the Programme for today at point three and point four, proposed by. Those are the 50 levs of pensioners who will not receive unless a decision is made on this matter by the end of this year. Let us be clear who sabotages aid for the elderly. Let us be clear, to be able to say, rather than listen to insinuations, lies and false statements from the courtiers of GERB sites and media. So we have tabled a proposal and let Parliament rule on whether the pensioners receive 50 leva. by the end of this year. We insist that this happens. The elegant way out of the situation is for you to propose that you have such a right as a item on the agenda item three and four and by voting to include them in today's programme. That way the Rules will be preserved.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] Mr. Rashidov, Mr. Mirchev wanted the word first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, you may propose that the relevant proposals from BSP and Mrs Manolova enter into the agenda of the National Assembly. It is evident that you refuse in any way to help the Bulgarian pensioners. It must be made clear here, today and now that 100% responsibility for this thing carries you; it carries Mr. Trifonov, who hasn't set foot here; he carries there is such a people. He carries GERB, who will support you in this thing; and, of course, all this happens under the dictation of Mr. Tsonev for the second day, by the DPS, because they have the greatest objection to recalculating the incomes of the Bulgarian pensioners. [[noise and lines]] [[Noise and lines.]] But it is a shame that this is done under your conduction back here, because with your populism you pretended to care about the interests of the Bulgarian pensioners, but you are now doing everything you can at this time neither to recalculate the incomes of the Bulgarian pensioners nor to have an addition of 50 BGN. for them. And it's your responsibility! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Scandals: "Resign! ")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u32	Madam President, I take the floor in the manner of conduct. First, to congratulate you on your following the Rules of Procedure today. Last time we had a proposal for this committee. You guys rejected her. It is not irrelevant to investigate the illegal construction of the summer residence of one of your favorite oligarchs. Second, the pigeon-dove in Aleppu, as far as we know from the media, Mrs. Manolova has a warm connection with the owner [[noise and lines]] , also to investigate. So, very please, next time, if there is, get this into the point. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u33	Mrs. Manolova for a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u34	Mrs. Chairman! Dear MPs from GERB, as the organized propaganda groups of your leader Borisov have started, soon according to your fictions I will prove to be a buyer of the house in Barcelona and the luxury boutique, most likely on the drawer with the bars and the stacks, conveniently forgetting how this outrageous construction with the architectural desk and with the personal activity of the wife of your Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva is possible with the permission of DNCK's boss in the city of Burgas a man of Valeri Simeonov, removed because of a conflict of interest in another construction, and from the associate to your leader Borisov firm Glavbolgarstroy, investor of this building. That's how it became possible. But to stop speculation on the subject today at 2.30 am, Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, I invite you to a meeting of the Audit Committee. There we have called on the projecter Mrs. Zaharieva, the deputy prime minister's husband; there we have called on Mrs. Glavbolgarstroy, who are an investor-executor and party on a fictitious deal; there we have called the buyer on this fictitious deal; also the bosses of all possible institutions in Burgas RIOSV, DNC, who are your appointments and allowed this outrage. If you are holding, the next point in the program will be the house in Barcelona and the luxury boutique there are three signals for them to make sure that I did not overbought them by your leader. [[Applause from ISV. People's representative Vejdi Rashidov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u35	First, the Democratic Bulgaria had a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u36	Madam President, colleagues! It is good, since we all refer to the Rules, from time to time, and to read these same Rules. First of all, in art. 53?.?.................................................................................... The 8th sentence fifth says the following: The National Assembly is obliged to examine in essence the proposals made. In this case, the sitting was interrupted in the middle without the agenda being exhausted. I believe that it is precisely on the basis of the Rules of Procedure that the agenda of Wednesday must be extended until the proposals made are examined in substance. If this is not accepted, however, I refer to para. 5 of that same article. 53, which says: "In exceptional cases, the President may propose a change in the agenda at the beginning of the plenary session. " In other words, Madam President, if the first proposal is not respected, please take advantage of your Rules of Procedure to offer the points that are relevant for the entire Bulgarian society. One concerns pensioners, the other concerns the investigation of corruption on the higher levels of power. It can't be more important than that! Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u37	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. I'm gonna ask you, Mr. Slavov, to read a sentence first in para. 8. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u38	Madam President, I take the floor for a personal explanation. Mrs. Manolova, when you don't speak, I'm not at ease in this room, and that's why I challenge you to speak. [[Noise and lines from ISM.]] For your warm relationship write all the media.. it is not me. [[Comments from ISM: "Who are the media? "]] This dovehouse is almost illegal, and you know it, but even more illegal is Bujaka. I love Sozopol. I grew up there. This summer residence of a person close to you, together with Tsvetan Vassilev and he has an illegal construction right on Bujaka, removed the old tree where we shot all Bulgarian films and oligarchs made a summer residence. [[Noise and lines.]] Those honest ungulates kings. So if you are forcing the chairman to accept item three, I have a proposal that she be reformated and put in those things that we are talking about. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u39	That's how the media writes it's not me!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u40	Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u41	Dear Madam, Chairman, honourable Members! In this National Assembly, the 45th, I was tempted to take the floor with clear and precise recommendations on both the bills on which I spoke. Today I take a procedure to share with you colleagues, but most of all to share with all Bulgarian citizens who see us that in fact today's performance that is happening here has nothing to do with reality and life. None of the committees anyone here talks about will have a longer life than 24 hours! None of these committees! For the simple reason that the president assured us that on the 11th he was disbanding parliament. If he disbands parliament on the 11th, we will create a new kind of activity of the National Assembly to work after the National Assembly! The last regular session of this Parliament is today. I want someone to explain to me very calmly and legally how a temporary committee will exist after the last meeting of the National Assembly! Where will he account for his activity; where will the report to be presented to the National Assembly and everything else related to this?! All these things, honourable MPs and Bulgarian citizens, are simply serving Mrs. Manolova's election campaign! Not to the parties in this Parliament, not to the parties outside, but to Mrs Ma-no-lo-va, known for her exceptional energy and her combined thought of creating all kinds of intrigues and dirt! [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] [[Replication by National Representative Vezhdi Rashidov: "Compromaties"]] This is the truth, Bulgarian citizens and honourable colleagues, however you are uncomfortable! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u42	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. Manev. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u44	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, honourable viewers and listeners! Mrs. Miteva, I took a procedure in the manner of conduct, because neither what Mr. Manev did was a procedure; nor was Mr. Rashidov's speech a personal statement! Please. [[GERB-SDS lines]] Stop people's microphones when they break the rules! And also in the manner of holding this National Assembly on Wednesday, with my participation and with the participation of the majority in this Chamber, agreed to examine item three. It was, like, a violation that wasn't allowed! You know that there is a way in which the National Assembly makes decisions and they must be implemented. In this sense, my colleague Mr. Slavov has already expressed an opinion on how it is possible for us to adopt the Rules and, in the spirit of the Rules, consider this point, as well as the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u45	It's a personal explanation! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u46	Thank you. For procedure? Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u47	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I really didn't understand what the personal explanation was, which is why Mr. Rashidov was on this stand. I respect all the suggestions for Buddhians, rivers, trees and so on, but this is done accordingly. He wasn't mentioned, so there was no point in any personal explanation. What is happening in this House is an attempt to skip the desire of the MPs who have already voted. What is happening in this room is an attempt not to deal with the problem of "Rosenets" not to deal with police violence. What's happening in this room is absolutely obvious. I can't ignore the vocal abilities of the last speaker. But the truth will become obvious to everyone. I didn't mention your name just your vocal abilities. So let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u48	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. I didn't understand the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u49	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u50	Here you are, Mr. Manev, but I want you to tell me what the offensive qualification is and what it consists of.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u51	Didn't I tell you just now that it's just an election campaign? If Babikan is on the stand, we're already in what is in a campaign, of course, because Mr Babikan is only dealing with this, nothing else! And you proved it with your presence in this forty-fifth parliament to 100%! As far as my vocal abilities are concerned, whenever someone illegally and in violation of the Rules of Procedure tries to take away the right of a Member of the National Assembly to speak, he must expect resistance. Resistance can happen...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u52	What's your personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u53	...in two unique ways. That's why I use my vocal abilities. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Mr. Babikan...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u54	Mr. Manev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u55	...because with your screamable relations in this National Assembly you give no other option than a person to talk to you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u56	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, we will remain in history the 40th National Assembly, with the shortest life and the most violations of the Rules. Please, another violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have given a personal explanation of a procedure in which you have no right to the Rules. Don't keep breaking it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u58	Of course I'm right!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u59	I would just like to remind colleagues who are very vocal that GERB proposed the establishment of such a committee and you rejected it! We are for such a committee and such an inspection. As the colleague said, we are literally in the last hours of this National Assembly and everything else is a PR! The request and the establishment of such a commission on your part is that you pump your ratings for that absolutely everything is populism! [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] And the verification of this committee should essentially begin as soon as the privatization of Lukoil is done, because then it is the genesis of the problem. Please stop this circus! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u60	Thank you, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u61	I have a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u62	Mrs. Manolova, whose personal explanation and what?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u63	To Mr. Manev, who said I was intrigue. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u64	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Manev, to what do you call intrigues, since you claim that I am involved in intrigues? The testimony of a businessman that he was racketeered by power and by the highest position in the state?! To the explanations and information from a businessman in the Committee on Revision that he was exposed to racketeering on behalf of the Prime Minister?! [[Strong noise from GERB-SDS. A line from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Is that what you're gonna do about the bullies in the arrests, the buffoons...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u65	Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u66	...to export companies to the stock exchange?! Are these insinuations? Are these intrigues? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u67	Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u68	Come to the audit committee today so you can hear the whole truth! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u69	Mrs. Manolova! Mr. Popov and we're done with the procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u70	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u71	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u72	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u73	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u74	My procedure is the way I conduct it, it's not a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u75	Abort personal explanations!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u76	And the way you lead!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u77	It's the way it's supposed to be. Madam President, if there is no parliamentary time for these committees, we have all the parliamentary time to allow for the vote to recalculate pensions, increase the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners! [[Applause from IHN and GERB-SDS to interrupt the speaker.]] From this tribune it is very clear to you that you do not hide behind procedural smarts the new majority in this parliament from Slavi Trifonov, GERB and DPS! Allow a vote because Wednesday's meeting has been interrupted and we are continuing on the same agenda! [[Applause from IHN and GERB-SDS to interrupt the speaker]] You have a second hypothesis to submit to this agenda as President if you do not want to continue on Wednesday, and you should, in order to comply with the Rules, vote on today! Do one of two things to keep the rules! And stop hiding behind procedural smarts and disobeying the Rules just so you don't polish how you don't want to increase the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u78	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I want to answer Mr. Popov. Mr. Popov, I think I made it clear that the agenda item on Wednesday had ended with its vote at first reading. [[(Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva:]] In the very assessment of the impact on your bill you have written that a change in the State Budget Act and the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021 is necessary! [[Voices: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u79	Let him watch!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u80	In accordance with art. 19 of the Public Finance Act cannot be allowed to reduce costs, increase revenue before the beginning of next year! That is, even if it is accepted, Mr. Popov, I will not allow it, because at the moment it must be made clear that even if this proposal is adopted, it cannot have its effect! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] There's no source of funding! It is clear that this proposal cannot be implemented by 1 January 2022! [[People from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS are around the stands. Noise and lines.]] My decision is that I will not allow your procedure! The point is over! I will not include additional items on the agenda, as I do not find exceptional cases for this! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u81	That's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u82	I won't allow it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u83	You can't not let that happen! Why are you afraid?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u84	I won't let that happen! It's over! [[Replications from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Ivanov.]] I won't let that happen!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u85	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u86	Because it ended on Wednesday! [[Loud noise. Replies from the MPs around the stands.]] Because I think that's the rule of law! [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u87	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u88	Please come in the manner of conduct and, please, state the specific violation that I have committed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u89	I'll tell you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure, Madam President, is for you. Forty-five minutes from the beginning of the plenary session, probably the last time, you have completely missed the House! [[Noise and lines.]] You're breaking the rules! You give personal explanations to personal explanations! You can't handle this meeting! You interpret the Rules of Procedure as you choose, not as the Members of the National Assembly decide, for which they have voted! So, Madam President, clear your seat now! You were up there alone 20 minutes ago at the Presidium. This is an assessment of your work and how you conduct the sitting! [[Noise and lines: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Clear your seat, give another person to lead the Vice-President, to normalize things and to allow for the voting rules as this House has voted, not as you say! [[Noise and lines.]] Now do you understand? And did you find out what kind of responsibility you have? To interpret decisions of MPs and to block the recalculation of the pensions of two million Bulgarians?! This decision will be on your back, your responsibility, and I don't know how you'll sleep from now on. Clear your seat and let someone else lead!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u90	Mr. Chenchev, you want me to interpret the Rules and apply them as you wish. No, I will apply the Rules as you have agreed to apply them. [[Noise, applause and screams: "Bravo!" by GERB, INN and ISM.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u91	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I suggest that we calm down if we want to continue today's meeting, but obviously the BSP colleagues do not want to. As they failed Wednesday's session, they want to ruin the meeting today, so that not only CSR is not watched, but nothing is seen! Honourable Members, Madam President, do not allow Members of the National Assembly who violate the Rules of Procedure to tell you how you violate the Rules of Procedure! Because colleagues Slavov from DB and Sandov know exactly what para is saying. Article 8 53 "The Order, and interpret it in a coup. We all know! Yes, there is another option, but what they say is unacceptable to all of us because we have sworn that we will respect the laws of the country and the Constitution, and the Rules are part of these laws, colleagues! Parliamentism is not built in this way, in my humble opinion. Please! Thank you. [[Applause GERB, ICN and ISM. People's representative Vejdi Rashidov wants a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u92	About what, Mr. Rashidov? [[(Replies from the People's Representative Vejdi Rashidov:]] No, I won't give you the floor, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Ivanov on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u93	Madam President, honourable Members! I have a procedural proposal. The presence of a direct broadcast of this sitting clearly makes it an arena of pre-election struggle. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: "A," is that right?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] I mean my deep conviction about two things. Firstly, the issue of recalculating pensions is too important to solve it this way, and based on procedural grips and counterattacks. And secondly, let's really get into a format where we can talk about this more professionally, and decide whether or not we can do something. Including, gentlemen of the BSP, by seriously talking about this not just how to promise people an indexing of pensions, but also to see how to technically do this thing, including giving people an opportunity... [[Noise and lines.]] Listen to me! Please listen to me! We have the opportunity until the dissolution of the National Assembly, including with an extraordinary meeting, to provide time for any adjustments...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u94	How's this gonna work?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u95	...and find a way to really solve the problem. And in that sense, my proposal: Madam President, give us a break, let us hold the chairmanship board, see what we can really responsiblely do and continue on some normal agenda, and not in this way as some kind of apology, but it looks like a monkey shop.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. On behalf of a group, does anyone want a word? No. I'm interrupting the meeting for 15 minutes, and I'm calling the Chairman's Council. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u97	Let's go, guys! Mr. Vigenin, for procedure? Here you go. I hope it's the last procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We need to make one clarification on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. The Conference of Presidents has not agreed on our proposals relating to the Social Security Code, which we regret. There was an opportunity, but not all the groups agreed with her. I'm not gonna comment on who's wrong or who's right. After all, the fact is such that the seven-day period is now running on a proposal for a second reading under the Social Security Code, which makes it impossible, in the absence of consent, for this Parliament to accept these changes in the Social Security Code and at second reading. Expectations will not be met, and it remains to be hoped that in the next Parliament, the commitments made by all the political groups to vote at first reading will be expressed in the implementation of these changes immediately at the beginning of the next parliament. As there is a danger that today's sitting will be interrupted, if the disputes and obstructions on our part continue, for which we believe we have reason, but it is also important that the upcoming items be passed on the agenda and that we do not give any more justifications and opportunity for the meeting to be terminated, we accept Parliament to continue working the way it was voted yesterday at the beginning of plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u99	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We continue with item one of today's agenda: HEARING OF THE PRESIDENT AND THE COMMISSION'S MEMBERS FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION OF THE BENEFICIARY 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE CONVERSATION OF NEW PRICEES OF ELECTRIC AND TOPLINE ENERGY FOR THE PRICE PERIOD from 1 July 2021 TO 30 June 2022, as well as THE PRESENTATION AND CONVERSATION OF NEW BUSINESS PLANS OF THE VIC OPERATORS AND THE DELEGATION OF PRICES OF WATER AND CANALISATION SERVICES FOR REGULATORY PERIOD 2022 "2026 D.E. The importer is Maya Manolova. First, I would like to make a procedural proposal: in connection with this hearing, to be admitted Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov, Chairman of KEWRC, Remzi Durmush Osman, member of KEWRC, Dimitar Georgiev Kochkov, member of KEWRC, Vladko Genchov Vladimirov, member of KEWRC, Plamen Ventsislavov Mladenovski, Director of the Department of Electricity and Heat Energy and Ivaylo Georgiev Kaschiev, Director General of the Directorate General for Water and sewerage services. Please vote. Vote 191 MPs: for 191, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests. I give the floor to Mrs. Manolova to present the proposal at the hearing. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u100	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up! The KEWRC has requested this hearing because of the huge concern and concern in the Bulgarian citizens and in Bulgaria, as MPs, from the upcoming increase in the price of heating and electricity as of 1 July. The concern is also related to the beginning of the six-month period for the adoption of business plans by the water associations, which will determine the water prices for the next five-year period. This will happen under the conditions of the current law, which, you know, the single price of water in the territory of a water association creates huge problems and worries and the inability to pay the high bills by the Bulgarian citizens. In the same way, the legal base, which was made by KEWRC, is determined once a year, regardless of how the price of natural gas changes, also leads to very severe imbalances and makes it difficult for Bulgarian households. At our insistence, the energy companies had submitted their demands for increasing the prices of heating and electricity, but the KEWRC had conveniently not presented them publicly for information to the Bulgarian citizens. At our insistence from here, from this platform, in the presence of the energy minister Mrs. Petkova, KEWRC fulfilled its commitment and announced the requested price increases by the energy companies. They are really more than alarming, given the fact that the highest increase requested is within 138,12% increase in the price of the steam room for At the same time, proposals and requests are made to raise the price of electricity, which is obtained in a highly efficient, combined way, such as for electricity produced by The rates are over 37. All of this in the conditions of election campaign, the work of a public office and the lack of a National Assembly to protect Bulgarian citizens as consumers, there is a great concern in Bulgaria as MPs, as MPs and therefore the parliamentary group of the National Assembly. - Goons out! - You asked for this hearing. What's disturbing? In his previous work KEWRC did not give a clear sign that it is able to ensure a balance between the interests of energy companies and Bulgarian consumers. You didn't show it, and the evidence is in the steam bills, and I'm only gonna take the users of the Sofia district heating in the last year. Despite an officially announced drastic reduction in the price of natural gas, with a reverse date and the expectation of people being compensated, including with the return of overpaid amounts, the real historically high steam bills were precisely in March last year, when on March 3rd announced a reduction in the price of natural gas.. then citizens, the consumers of warm in Sofia received their highest bills. The KEWRC adopted a Regulation setting the price of the heating, in which it recorded that it was determined once a year, i.e. the decision that will now be taken as a result of these requests by the energy companies will apply for a whole calendar year. All I'm saying is that as a result of this practice, the Sofia district heating paid 25 million less to the Bulgarians than the money that consumers of steam in Sofia paid to the Sofia district heating, that is, it is not interest-free lending. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The users in Sofia, Sofia's citizens have sponsored Sofia's heating with 25 million. lv. last year thanks to the methodology that was adopted by the KEWRC. I therefore insist that they be heard here and say how they will proceed with these scandalously high demands to increase the price of heating and electricity by energy companies... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] [[the President signals that time has run out]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u101	Mrs. Manolova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u102	...and how they will protect Bulgarian consumers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I give the floor to the President of the Commission to inform the National Assembly on the issues at the hearing. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, in accordance with its regulatory powers, operates regulatoryly in several key sectors for the country. These are sectors: electricity, heat, natural gas and water services, with a number of regulatory activities taking place in the four sectors, but one that is particularly important and monitored by the whole society is the determination and in certain cases the price of energy carriers, the price of natural gas, the price of water services. On this occasion, I would like to point out that, each year, the Commission in a fully responsible manner, after collecting all the applications for companies working in each of these sectors, these applications are subject to a thorough analysis by the experts in the Commission and at the end of May, the Commission is holding a meeting at which it adopts the price report. In fact, four reports on the different sectors are adopted and public meetings are held throughout June. The first of these are the open meetings held with the participation of all applicants, either with regard to the price of electricity, heat, natural gas or water services. The second meeting to be held is once again a meeting of the Commission itself, which comes up with a draft decision. It shall also be followed by the so-called public consultation to which any person concerned may participate and may, even if not participate, present his opinion on the reports within 14 days. Finally, this is already firmly fixed on 1 July each year, including 1 July 2021, the Commission shall issue its decisions. With regard to why these meetings are held at the end of May, it is a practice which is established and which is related to the need for 1 July to start the year at an appropriate annual price. Last year, the meeting was held on May 29th, on last 28th. On one of these dates, the meeting will be held this year as well. Regarding the concerns that Mrs Manolova expressed regarding the applications made by the energy companies, I would like to point out that every year the energy companies offer extremely high increases, some of them really very strange, but the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission accepts these applications only as an information base on which they pronounce our representatives in the working groups and then the Commission itself in a fully responsible, critical way and defend the public interests that without failing to protect the interests of the Bulgarian consumers. To be convincing, I would like to point out that last year's average increase, which the country's heat efficiency demanded for an increase in the price of heat, was 41%. The average increase in the price of electricity produced in a highly efficient way was 25%. The Commission rejected all these requests by the heating companies because there was then a change in the Treaty between the Gazprom Export and the Bulgargaz company, there was even a reduction in these prices, but even if it did not have this correction, bear in mind that the price that we had set was only a 3% increase. In the same way the Commission will act now in the new examination. We have warned companies in no way of costs which they have declared and which we believe are not necessary will not be recognised. Bulgarian citizens can be assured that in each of these sectors their interests will be protected. I am responsible for saying that the Commission will not allow a sharp, scenic increase in the price of natural gas for all those energy carriers that I have listed. There's something that really sounds convincing. Over the past six years inflation in the country is equal to 9% and everyone can calculate it through the calculator of the National Statistical Institute. With the Commission's decisions, which are also public on the KEWRC's website, you can see that the increase in the price of electricity is also exactly 9%, which means that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in no way sees prices as some kind of pro-inflation factor. On the contrary, it seeks to comply, on the one hand, with the interests of consumers, on the other, with the need to maintain their competitiveness and the energy companies concerned. As for the fact that last year the price of natural gas paid by the Bulgarian consumers of the heating companies was eight months higher than the real price at which natural gas was purchased and the strong demand to reduce this price, I will note. First, that in the last two months, something that the Commission had predicted the price of natural gas on the international markets increased by 38%. I ask: who would pay these 38% if we had reduced the price of natural gas before that? Secondly, in the price of heat other than the price of natural gas, another very important price-forming element is the price of carbon emissions traded on the European platform. These emissions at the Commission's price of EUR 22 per tonne, emissions for the year ending on 30 June rose to 48, 49 and may reach 50 euros per tonne of emissions. This must also be taken into account in determining the price of heat. The combination can show back that the heat efficiency paid more than was necessary. However, if the calculations that are currently being carried out show that the actual heat efficiency has made over-taked revenue, the Commission has a mechanism and will implement it immediately after it has over-taked revenue, it will be reported in a reduction in the price for the next annual price period. Madam President, do I still have time?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u105	You have a minute and a little bit more.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u106	I would also like to point out, specifically for the sector, that according to the regulatory requirements, each of the water companies produces and presents to the Commission its business plan. The first business plans have started to be implemented since 1 January 2017 and will end on 31 December 2021. From 1 January 2022 the following business plans will enter into force. Again, according to the regulatory requirements, six months before the business plan expires, new business plans must be presented. This means that each company must present its business plans by 30 June. I can't comment on anything that hasn't been presented to us at all so far. I can only point out that the Commission has an obligation, and it came up with a decision, it is an indication of the implementation of the two regulations of the Council of Ministers relating to regulation of the price of water and regulation of the quality of water. These guidelines are necessary for companies to develop their business plans. The decisions on the division of water operators into groups are currently under way and, of course, the determination of their rate of return. If you'll allow me, I will repeat what I announced about the electricity sector and the thermal energy sector, in full force also applies to the sector. Moreover, the business plans, before being presented to us, need to be approved by the public owners of the water companies, and this is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Bulgarian Water Holding, which will give more weight to the plans that will be presented to us. Thank you and I expect your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to two questions. We start with the first round of questions. Does GERB-SDS have any questions? No questions asked. There's such a people here, Mr. Hinoski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u108	Madam President, honourable Members! The energy issue is one of the sharpest in our society. We are all paying bills, especially in recent years we have witnessed oscillations of heating and electricity prices. The topic is at least for very high yield populism, but I, as an energyist and not as a politician, will take the attitude because the KEWRC is one of the consumer's protectors. We all have to their work some criticisms, but look, this Commission has proved in time that it finds the exact difference between interests.. notice, our as consumers and those of the business, because if our energy companies do not preserve their competitiveness, their liquidity, we will not only pay expensive electricity, but there will be no such and there will be no heat. It's the easiest thing to criticize the bills. I would like to share a concern that exists in the society of energyists that we are currently in an extremely negative trend for gas prices, electricity and the related Bulgarian standard of living. Thirty-eight percent increase in the price of New Year's gas?! At least 20% are expected by the end of this year. In all Western electricity exchanges, the prices of futures electricity transactions are above 20%. This will inevitably affect our standards. I have one question for Mr. Ivanov. Bulgaria from June 1st should plan to unify the exchanges of Romania, Greece and Bulgaria. Joining us with Greece will have an additional severe negative effect on the price of electricity. My question is: can it be postponed for a later period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u109	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. Mr. Ivanov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u110	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hinoski, first of all, thank you for your assessment of the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I do not know if by the end of this debate I will say in what state the Commission found Bulgarian energy in 2015, when the National Electricity Company was in a practical state of technical bankruptcy because, in a previous composition of the Commission, and not only he, of course, had taken populist decisions that the Ministry of Energy, the Energy Commission in the National Assembly and the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory to make huge efforts in order to restore the financial situation of Bulgarian energy at the beginning of 2016. Populism in energy is extremely harmful not only to energy but to the whole economy. Regarding the question you are asking me, alas all the negotiations that have been conducted, all the more so that we have been an active party to join the European electricity market, do not allow us to ask for a change of dates. This change may occur if the parties on whom the conclusion of the Agreement depends are unable to meet the requirements to which they are submitted. The situation is as follows: in May Bulgaria will join the European market in the "Day forward" segment through Greece, Italy and hence the entire European market. In September, we are expected to join the European market through Romania in the north and west direction. The great advantage of Bulgaria's accession to the European market is, firstly, because the strong fluctuations in the price of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange will be removed. The European Union's requirement for this accession is that the price difference between two neighbouring exchanges be no more than two euros. Secondly, the capacity that Bulgaria has will be sufficiently increased to overcome any crisis situation in one country. That is, not to rely on a cold reserve, but to be able to immediately neighbouring countries - which is also required by the European Regulation - to assist the country in distress concerned. Thank you, I think I answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Do you have any questions from the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, honourable colleagues! My question is extremely important, I think, and I think both consumers and water operators think the same thing. By 30 June, all water operators must submit their business plans to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The first part of my question is this: will the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission be able to consider, approve these business plans as soon as possible? There is no approval period, but here the Commission's expertise and flexibility for energy and water regulation must be at a high level so that it can be done as quickly as possible. Because these business plans will draw the development of all water operators in the next regulatory period, and these are investments, this is a return, this is extremely important for this service, which is provided to all Bulgarian citizens and therefore depends on the prices of the service that the Bulgarian consumer will pay. But here I want to insert something else, Mr. Ivanov. By decision of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Council of Ministers were obliged to introduce the Vic Services Act. At the beginning, when this law began to work, Mr. Nankov I think he was a minister, there was a demand for political consensus, there was dialogue, there was an exchange of views. But the torture began when Mr. Nankov withdrew and this law seems to have gone into Mrs. Avramova's round bin, I don't know where. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just thirty more seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u113	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u114	This law, in its form, in which it was proposed, did not solve problems. It did not solve the problems of social tolerance, the division of the regulator, which would fall depending on the principle of companies and work for the convenience of companies. And most importantly, it did not decide, as I said, the social tolerance, because there the talks were that it would be possible for two tariffs for the poor state to bear the costs needed for the existence of the human individual, to have a second rate which it consumes, to pay more. But all of this is a dream. I don't know when it's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u115	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the first part of Mr. Manol Genov's question, I believe that after the Commission has drawn up the necessary documents and has taken the relevant decisions, the most important of which are the instructions given to the water companies, they can prepare and deposit their business plans to the Commission by 30 June. I would like to point out that there should be no parallel between the time limits and the way in which the business plans were presented during the first period However, it is very important that business plans are presented in full compliance with the requirements for their development. If this is done, the Commission will fulfil 100% of its commitment to examine and decide on business plans. As for the new Law, I say a new one, but it is with the National Assembly itself that comes out of the legal world, because the laws must work in the next National Assembly, no matter what they are, I would like to point out that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission took into account all the pros and cons in this new law and presented its critical opinion to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. However, it did not come to a stage where the discussion of this opinion could be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Does the DPS parliamentary group have any requests for a question? Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u118	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, thank you for the opportunity to listen to the Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory at this meeting today, but the concern shown by the importers is again from the point of view of populism. If they were interested in all of what was happening with the KEWRC, they should have attended several open meetings, at public meetings. Of these public meetings, at least a few questions should have been asked today: which KEWRC has not responded to which of their requirements under the law they have broken the law. Given all of this, today I will not be so deeply involved in the overall activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I will take into account, within these five minutes, the overall pricing and its mode of action from the manufacturer to the user and the pricing and the possibility given to the KEWRC to intervene between producers and consumers. However, in order to fulfil the two minutes when we should ask our colleagues a question, I will ask the following question: what are the most important pricing factors and what is their impact on the decisions of the KEWRC, Mr. Ivanov? Once again, I am expressing myself for the honourable work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission during these four years and how you have resisted the pressure of politicians so far not to create such punctuations in pricing, but then I will explain how many more mistakes you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u119	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, I will start with what you have finished with how the Commission stood up for the independence of its decisions by simply refusing to comply with opinions expressed by politicians, businessmen and other non-governmental organisations and, above all, by sticking strictly to the requirements of law and regulation. In confirmation of what I am telling you, I will inform you that over the past six years our annual price decisions have been repeatedly attacked by the then Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. He sent his objections to the prosecution, the prosecution after reviewing all the documents ended the file without initiating any proceedings with regard to the Commission, stating that the Commission had indeed fulfilled all the laws and regulations in setting the relevant prices. With regard to the important factors that will be particularly addressed in the coming two months.. by July 1st, when the Commission will rule with a final decision. I am talking about the price of electricity, because otherwise I will not have enough time to spread to all sectors, especially the carbon price of the European Emissions Trading Platform will have a significant impact. As I have already said, of 22 euros estimated price at closing annual prices at the moment we have a price of around 50 euros per tonne of emissions, which will have an extremely negative impact on the price of electricity produced by coal plants, because if this trend is held, it will mean that the price to be paid for emissions will be higher than the production price of the relevant energy company for one megawatt hour of produced energy. Secondly, this is the price of natural gas. Because Bulgaria, Europe and the world are gradually entering recovery mode, the demand for energy raw materials, including natural gas, has increased sharply. When demand rises, prices rise. The price of natural gas actually by 20. 30% and up continues to rise against the prices it had until just a few months ago. Third, this is the estimated price of electricity that the Commission sets on the basis of an analysis of all futures transactions carried out on neighbouring and European exchanges in order to be able to best determine the estimated price for the next 12 months. Alas, there is also a promotion. And the last thing that does not depend in any way on either the Commission or, of course, the National Assembly, is the ratio of the dollar to the euro and hence the dollar to lev, because you know that energy resources, I mean, primarily natural gas, are defined in dollars. This change in ratio also affects as an important external pricing factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u122	Madam Chairman, Mr. Ivanov! We are all extremely concerned about the state of the energy sector. Of course, the KEWRC may be the least guilty of this, rather looking for guilt in the executive and legislative authorities. However, a few specific questions, since I do not have much time. With regard to the prices of natural gas for the previous period, it became clear that they had an idea higher than expected prices from the market, with the exception of the last two months. According to our information, however, some of the private heat efficiencys have been buying gas through intermediaries at prices significantly higher than the market prices in the last 12 months at prices close to those set by the Regulator, which have proved to be higher. Do you see the prices at which gas is bought from private heating and whether their costs are higher than the market and, in this situation, consumers will pay more expensively and will not have enough money for investment? How much trouble is that, and how can it be compensated? What is happening to the TPP Maritza East 2? Due to the rise in carbon prices, which you have mentioned several times, it is now 48 €49, it is possible to become 75 by the end of the year, specialists say that the state power plant will probably lose at least half a billion leva in 2021. Some TPPs, such as "Brickel" and "Bobov dol" have officially reduced their carbon costs per tonne of coal. How does that work? Is control of the carbon emissions that are emitted into the atmosphere by the thermal power plants? Theoretically, is it possible for a ton of coal to spend tens of percent less carbon emissions than in the previous year? How will energy function on a market basis if we do not have a legal framework for a capacity mechanism? Such was not accepted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly, which I consider to be a major problem. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] That's right, Mr. Atalay's Bill. What are your expectations from lawmakers in the next National Assembly? Will we continue to pour tens of millions of levs into an ineffective cold reserve? Will you recognise this year the energy efficiency costs of the ERPs, which have not been recognised for several years in a row? This can have a very serious impact on the final price of electricity "perhaps by 10 percent or more. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And let me finish. In general, the overlays are so serious. Billions of liabilities are approaching the maturity of the bonds of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the high carbon prices, lack of market mechanism for capacity. How are you going to contain the coming energy bomb from July 1st and then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u123	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Panev, your questions are, of course, extremely important. However, I will stop once again after I have said briefly in response to Mrs Manolova's speech. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission last year for the entire annual regulatory period 2020 - 2021 set an estimated price of natural gas at which consumers will pay the heat to heat companies. This was done in order to work for the benefit of consumers, not periodically, in the worst case every month, in other cases three months, to change the price. Not to mention that the heating companies themselves do not yet have the possibility, within a short period of one day or two days, to take full account of all the heat meters. The effect of this action has shown right now because we had from the Dutch hub TTF how the price of natural gas will move and in fact, setting an average annual estimated price of 30.50 BGN. for megawatt hours, we allowed for eight months the price at which natural gas was purchased by the heating companies to be lower than this estimated price, but in the last two months, probably the next then, the price has increased sharply, as I have already said, by over 30%. It would be devastating for consumers if, following the price of natural gas, they were suddenly told that they had to increase their heat by 30%. That would also cause a social explosion. Regarding what you said about the fuel related to the "Brickel" and not only is the responsibility here of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which is responsible for the quality of fuel and the determination and certification of the fuel used by the heating companies. With regard to the fact that, as of 1 July, a heavy year has been set for energy. First, I assure you that every year it is heavy for Bulgarian energy, because we are obliged to go through the deep waters of the transition from a centralised market holding with fixed, regulated prices to free prices of energy carriers. But, Mr. Panev, you should note that during these six years, when they went to the free market, all the business users had to run out and all of them had to be on the free market, and we made a schedule for the domestic consumers by 2025, there were no price shocks that some analysts predicted would jump 50%, 30% and so on. Not at all! We have indeed maintained price stability, hence the stability of the sector and we have protected the interest of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the parliamentary group, stand up! Goons out! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u126	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, a brief question. How did the Commission predict over the years the increase in carbon price and could it have been hedging in any way? You said yourself she's already too tall. And second question in addition: will futures be purchased with an option to still guarantee the amount of future price that you expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u127	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kolev, the futures transactions we monitor daily are naturally unable to fix the price to be set by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. However, they give a clear indication of the trends in the price movement of major European exchanges, respectively we can find out what will happen in the next 12 months. Of course, the pandemic and the sharp contraction in consumption of some energy carriers have violated for these exchanges themselves the credibility of their predictions. However, I would point out that the trend, as much as we do not like it because of the European policy relating to the Green deal and the gradual reduction and exclusion of coal as an energy carrier, respectively from there and coal plants, instead of administrative measures, is adopted the line of increasing the cost of CO2 emissions and thus increasing the cost of energy from coal plants to levels that make them uncompetitive. The state has the possibility to legally support coal plants by 1 July 2025 through the so-called capacity mechanism, but in order to participate in the capacity mechanism, it is necessary to have a clear liberalisation plan, termination of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity, such as the contracts with the two US power plants, and then we can take advantage, above all because of the severe situation of the Maritsa East 2 TPP. But literally right now we need to make the transition strategy, transform our coal plants into another type of fuel, which at the same time requires keeping jobs in other similar activities in the region and at the same time achieving energy performance that will allow us to have full energy satisfaction with the needs of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We're moving on to asking the second questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS? No questions asked. There is such a people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u130	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, honourable Mr. Ivanov and colleagues from KEWRC! Before I ask myself a question, I'd like to express my opinion first. I read your instructions very carefully from the site you set out for the business plans of the water operators. I met very well with all the speeches and discussions, including the presentation of Yavor Dimitrov in Ruse, where the water operators discussed your instructions. In their opinion, the instructions tolerate a number of amendments, additions and adaptations, which is why it is likely that the time limit by the water operators will not be met by 30 June. And the other reason, not only these additions, you know them, and the remarks they have made to you, but also the data to come to the cost of water, we must have a large volume of real information. The reference year is 2020. The period for some of the indicators is 2018 " 2020. You also know from public information that in many places water quantities are not measured accurately. This was also established by the water crisis in Pernik, which was found in Burgas. I will remind you at the end of 2019 on the website of Ministry of Interior Emil Dimitrov announced that there is a difference between the water quantities, which reports the hydropower taken from the dam "Kamchia" and what passes through the station. So we still don't know what water quantities are drawn from surface water, from underground water, not to mention that there are no water meters installed everywhere. [[Reply: "Search! "]] So I think by presenting some business plans, they'll be fictitious. My question, which concerns many citizens in our country, is: why do citizens with poor drinking water pay a price for drinking water? I mean 300 small water supply systems with excess nitrates, not to mention Brestovitsa, where 30 times the manganese norm is increased, and people pay for drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Burdarska. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Burdarska, I will begin first with the answer to the question, as you said at the end of your speech. This issue is not to the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, it is to regional inspections, which should precisely give permission or, respectively, a ban on the use of certain water following laboratory biochemical tests. The Commission has neither legal nor, in fact, the ability to engage in such an activity. With regard to your distrust that the deadlines will be met. I believe that they can be respected, and I will tell you why. Because the instructions we have given practically show the water operators that they can develop their plans in the way plans were developed for the previous regulatory five-year period. There is nothing essential new that will make it difficult for them, but they just have to do it and respectfully comply with the deadline, and then we commit to meeting the deadline for each of the business plans. With regard to your application that there are no water meters in many places, either they are not working or they are not suitable. One of the indicators on which the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is carrying out an inspection and this check is carried out after the third year of the regulatory period and then once again for the last two years and is carried out on performance indicators, one of these performance indicators is precisely the water-meter holding and its condition. This affects respectively the assessment of the entire water company and hence the price of the water service. Of course, other performance indicators are related to pressure, maintenance and rehabilitation of the relevant water supply network. There is also another indicator of collection which, with the new business period of five years, will be replaced by water losses. I am convinced that if the water operators actually work seriously and are in good communication with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, because we have always said that on any issue on which they have difficulty, they can turn to us and then they can comply with the deadlines set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u134	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President and colleagues, you may notice that most of the fair questions of our colleagues, asked so far, relate to the Bulgarian government and its activities, and it is unlikely that the KEWRC can answer completely and 100% of all questions. In my question to the KEWRC, I will not distinguish myself from this context, as it is quite difficult in terms of binding competence to distinguish how far the commitment of a government goes, where the independent body goes and what we do in the National Assembly. My question to the KEWRC is dictated in fact by the inaction of the Bulgarian government in the period 2018 - 2019 and how they will take from this point on with regard to the determination of the prices of natural gas in relation to the decision of the European Commission in the part of the Antitrust issues.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These are Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Bulgaria and Poland. On this basis and on the basis of Regulation 1/2003, in particular Art. 9 of this regulation, the decision on antitrust issues becomes legally binding on the European Commission and, respectively, on the contracts of The issue is a long one: I will not go into details except to remove restrictions on free transit of gas, the obligation to and from countries which are not systematically linked to countries of the European Union. The main point, and what I would like to ask you, is that any country under long-term contracts can and is entitled to state to the supplier of prices based on the so-called mid-European platform TTF in two countries, the Netherlands and Germany. The Bulgarian government in 2018 did not do so. This process started by the end of 2019. This notorious return of money to citizens was delayed by about a year and a half. What will the KEWRC take to this issue in terms of bound competence, given that the antitrust decision of the European Commission says that every two years plus a five-year bonus can each Member State or customer recalculate this price? This is for the benefit of our consumers, this is in the context of the price reduction, and will you, as the Commission, take it into account in the formation of natural gas prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u135	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, you have raised a question that actually has not only Bulgarian but European dimensions. For many years, the monopoly supplier of natural gas to Bulgaria, and this is Gazprom Export, has actually sold natural gas to our country at increased prices. It is evidence that, following the decision of the European Commission in defence of eight EU member states, which were precisely subject to higher prices of natural gas delivered by the European Commission, negotiations were held with the European Commission and the result of these negotiations and the change that was made in the contract between the Gazprom Export and the Bulgargas. "Gazprom Export" has recovered through the mediation of Bulgargaz and the downstream companies to the Bulgarian end users. lv. And these are only the overrun revenues of Гспром Export......................... for eight We can answer the question ourselves: how much is the excess revenue for the longer period that you mentioned for a year and a half? With regard to the Commission. We are not participants in the negotiations that are being conducted with external suppliers. In a very understandable way, we are a regulator. At the same time, as we have the exact information about the prices at which natural gas is supplied to Bulgaria, and information that I cannot pass on because it is a sensitive business secret and sensitive information, but of course you are right that on the basis of similar comparisons with some other suppliers, the Ministry of Energy should have, and the Ministry of Energy, respectively, because without it, it could not have happened, to ask for and start new negotiations with As I recall, the period for the first opening of negotiations was two years, then it was no longer than five years. I think the five years from the beginning of this entire process will expire at the end of next year. The preparation of the negotiations itself, with a view to good results for Bulgaria, can be used in this period. I believe, as you said, Mr. Kostadinov, that there is an opportunity for better conditions for the delivery of natural gas to the country, but that depends on the negotiations that these organisations and institutions must hold, which are legally obliged to do so. Alas, the Commission can only advise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any questions from the DPS parliamentary group? Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u138	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Ivanov and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! For DPS compliance with the principle of ensuring social tolerance of the water service has always been a priority when it comes to the water sector. We strongly opposed the attempts to neglect this principle in 2012 in the preparation of the National Strategy for Water Sector Management and Development. We also strongly opposed in 2017, when the MRB presented us with a strategy for financing the water sector. If the necessary investments are to be collected by citizens through the cost of the water service, this would lead to an increase of more than 15. Such an increase would exceed any social tolerance thresholds and would make the use of water a luxury rather than a fundamental right. At present, in some regions prices are close to the social tolerance threshold of water services. I would like to point out that, after three years of the five-year period of the plans, the KEWR finds that there is a systematic failure of the investment programmes set out in the business plans, as a result of which it reduces the prices of services of 16 water companies, but the citizens have paid the amount, the funds have been collected, investments have not been made and have not resulted in the corresponding result. The next aspect to which I would like to draw attention, and what your position is, is the reduction of water losses. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is not the richest country of water resources, and the water losses in water supply systems are over 60%, and we have water operators working at 80% losses. I think it is good that the cost of the water service should be linked in order to motivate the relevant water operators and companies to tie the cost of the water service with the reduction of water losses in the water infrastructure. Unfortunately, this is not foreseen at this stage. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. I'll ask my questions immediately. Unfortunately, in the poorest country in the European Union, the cost of the water service is on the brink and at the limit of social tolerance, something that we do not share, as I have already said, by the DPS. In a nutshell, my questions. What does KEWRC think about the funds already collected by the citizens in the previous three years by the water operators who have failed to fulfil their business plans, and what action will he take in this direction? Why is the total loss of water in water systems not an indicator whose performance is taken into account when assessing the performance of the uniform performance indicators that determine the change in the price of the water service; will the KEWRC take its inclusion in the Quality Guide, and in particular in the performance guides? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Chakarov, questions are undoubtedly important. I will very briefly mark what I want to give as a response from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. First of all, in terms of social tolerance, this is an indicator that we calculate based on the data that comes to us from the National Statistical Institute. This is not a product which the Commission is developing but applies the rules as they are at the National Statistical Institute. Secondly, the fact that there was a substantial increase in the cost of water in certain areas, sometimes in certain municipalities, is due to the fact that the Law introduced a uniform price of water which harmed consumers who had previously used water produced by gravitational means while others used pumping water. This, of course, especially when it is not well explained to consumers, has caused their strong discontent. With regard to what measures the Commission is taking towards these water companies that have failed to implement the investment programmes envisaged, respectively the investment costs that are calculated in the cost of water, we have already done so. After the first and second years, companies are given recommendations on what to achieve in order to clear, so to speak, this matter. After the third year, what we did was implemented a full analysis of the investment costs of companies and those who had not used the funds allocated to them precisely for investment costs, and explained in the Commission that they had used them for raising wages or operating costs, they were all sanctioned. These are 17 water operators, as it was the principle protecting the consumer, the overcharged money from consumers through the promise of making investment costs is not fulfilled, this money is returned to consumers by reducing the cost of water. This, of course, was not accepted unambiguously by the companies. There has been pressure on the Commission by trade unions and by companies, but we have implemented the Law because we knew that this is how we act in favour and in support of consumers. Finally, what is important, I would like to point out that, with the new 5-year business plan cycle, we are introducing precisely as one of the key elements and indicator of water efficiency loss. In this way, companies must be motivated and stimulated to do what is necessary to reduce the loss of water that is either from theft or from the general state of their water infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgaria "Please come in, Mr. Dimitrov."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u142	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the main topic today is: can the price of gas and the price of heating be lower? The answer is clear: they can be lower. Then comes the logical question: why wasn't the interconnector made with Greece in 12 years wasn't built! By comparison, the Balkan, Turkish or Russian flow, as it is called, borrowed 3.3 billion. lv. and built it in a year. In one year they built a project that we don't need, and one that would lead to a lower price of gas and a lower price of steam, 12 years does not happen! My very specific question to you, Mr. Ivanov, is it true that if there was an interconnector with Greece, the price of gas would be at least 20% lower by 20% lower and the price of the heating would be at least 14 - 15% lower in Bulgaria? This must be heard from people, because that is the purpose of the debate, these are the real questions. The other is general talk. They said from this tribune how there should be new negotiations with "Gszprom". However, if we have not built an alternative from where to buy, which is the interconnector with Greece for alternative gas quantities, these negotiations will be much more complex. When they see that there is a way to buy at a much better price, a much more favourable price, it will allow for the negotiation with the main supplier. Everything will be possible, so today it is important to clarify this issue. First of all, its political part is how in 12 years was it, colleagues, you did not build it, for example, you of GERB, who three times had a prime minister at the time? Or those of the BSP who were also ruling in that period? None of you wanted to build it. But the most important thing is: is it true that this would lower the price of natural gas by at least 20% and the price of steam by at least 15%? And if we multiply that by 10 years, see what a huge amount the Bulgarian consumers have lost. I make a commitment to this being one of the main decisions from now on in the next parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u143	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, after from 6 to 22 January 2009, on President Putin's orders, Gazprom stopped natural gas supplies to Europe, including Bulgaria, we suffered serious losses which, according to the assessment of the then Minister of Economy Mr. Petar Dimitrov only for the public sector and for the state companies, amounted to 500 million. lv. The European Commission made a decision that year and included in the "Contact Europe" / "Contact Europe" / "Comotini" / "Stara Zagora" / "Contact Europe" / "Contact Europe" / "Comotini" / "Stara Zagora." It is really unacceptable for this interconnector to be funny, especially in the first five or six years nothing was actually done. We hope that this will happen by the end of the year, but perhaps because of the crossed nature of the dam.Studen Kreus and the Maritsa River, where the pipeline will be built by another external company other than the main builder, perhaps this deadline will not be met. Have you lost Bulgaria to the fact that this interconnector is so slow and sluggishly realized? Of course she is. I cannot commit to specific values as Mr. Martin Dimitrov mentioned, because in these years there is a different price movement. In addition, the formulas by which the price of natural gas supplied by Gazprom Export is determined are different from those supplied by the Azerbaijani company. The Azerbaijani company is only referring to oil products oil and fuel oil and their values in the past nine months, while under pressure from the European Commission, the "Gazprom Export" contract at 70% is related to the natural gas markets in Europe. In other words, the specifics are not the most important, but it is really important what I can confirm that the price of natural gas supplied by the Azerbaijani company is lower. In other words, if we had had the opportunity to make such deliveries much earlier through the interconnector "Komotini" Stara Zagora, this would have led to a reduction in the price of natural gas for Bulgaria and hence to all subsequent products due to this energy carrier, in particular the heat of the public heat supply. That's the heat supply in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. And from the parliamentary group, stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u146	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to address Mr. Ivanov as Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and ask the following question: two years the citizens of Haskovo paid drinking water, and they received industrial water with indicators that were not responsible for drinking. We all know about the radioactive contamination of the drinking water in the town of Haskovo, where the uranium content was more than 10 times, and total alpha activity transferred 30 times. However, the Commission, apart from not paying attention to compensate in any way the citizens of Haskovo, even voted on a business plan in which it increased the cost of drinking water in Haskovo. Another question is how the government solved the issue of the quality of the drinking water of the town of Haskovo. In the world practice, the quality of drinking water is maintained with the construction of treatment plants. In Haskovo, duplicate drilling was built, which diluted the uranium content and total alpha activity with the addition of water from other sources. This actually fell below the norm of uranium and total alpha activity, which is not a lasting solution, on the one hand. On the other hand, no measures were taken for the construction of treatment plants. Therefore, I ask you, as President, to explain: why the citizens of Haskovo were not compensated and their accounts were not recalculated in future periods? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u147	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The difficult situation in the town of Haskovo a little more than two years ago was even the subject of a public debate and, of course, caused the concern of all citizens in the country. Here's what I'd like to say. After finding this unacceptable water quality in the town of Haskovo, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works granted funds to Haskovo Municipality for a complete replacement of the water supply of water farms in order to build a new infrastructure, provided they are, of course, localised and made new water sources, and not those that gave this poor water quality. After a thorough analysis, which still lasted quite a while, RZI gave permission to use this water for drinking purposes. It was only after these two preliminary phases that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission ruled on the business plan of the Water and Water Water, which took account of the costs already incurred to purify drinking water. As for the question you have asked, what will the Commission do to compensate citizens, in any of our legal documents or in the laws concerning our activity, there is no mechanism that allows the Commission to compensate consumers, not only on water services. You have seen in Pernik services of "Toplofication" in Sofia services of "Toplofication". This can be done either directly by the company itself, or citizens must seek their rights by court order. That's what we advise them to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We are now moving on to the final phase, namely an expression of attitude towards the answers received. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS "Mr. Dobrev," come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u150	Madam President, honourable Members! We, as a group, did not ask questions because we believe that these questions belong to the parliamentary committees. In the last parliament, there was even a special committee to monitor the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Questions must be asked carefully and objectively, because the Commission is independent and the violation of its independence could lead to criminal procedures and other unpleasant consequences. I am glad, however, that there was reason in the Chamber and the questions were objective. I would like to address several topics, in fact, on several of the questions that have been asked. One question was related to the price of gas, which for me was incomprehensible because, in fact, in the last 30 and several years, the price of gas in Bulgaria under our long-term contracts signed with Once in the first cabinet Borisov, with 22%, I had the honour of being a minister then. Second time in the third cabinet Borisov, 40 percent and several percent. In other words, this contract has been reduced twice over the last 30 years in the first and third cabinet Borisov, and it told you by what percentage. At the moment, our price is the lowest in Europe. This each of you with simple computer knowledge can check it out. On the exchanges in Europe, the price is 22.. 23. 24 euros per megawatt hour, in Bulgaria is 19. And to ask at the moment when our price is lowest, renewal of negotiations, negotiating to reduce the price, somehow it is not logical and would rather not give any arguments to the Bulgarian side in these negotiations in such differences. On the other hand, Gazprom has reason to ask for a re-negotiation because our price is low. With regard to why is the Greek bond being built for 12 years? Mr. Dimitrov sent... And I don't understand why for 12 years this relationship hasn't been built. I think it's the management of the company itself. You know that this is a separate company to which, over the years, we, as governors, have expressed numerous criticisms about this sluggishness in the construction of the Greek link. All forecasts were by the end of last year, then by the end of last year, are now by the end of this year. I don't think this relationship will be ready by the end of next year, I say it here with great regret. The bigger theme is said by some of the colleagues, it really is at the cost of electricity, and it is not the problem of energy that much about energy, because what is happening is that energy in one way or another covers its costs. The price of the free electricity market last year at this time was BGN 60 at the time, now is over BGN 150, and this account pays the business. So if we have to be concerned about someone here, that's, first of all, the business. Why the price of 60 " 70 lv. It's 150 leva. This year? Well, because the carbon allowances in question, which each power plant pays, amounted to 20 euros, about 50 euros. The pricing method of European coal plants, because not only in Bulgaria but throughout Europe there are coal plants and they are a large share in the total energy mix of electricity generation in Europe, the way of pricing these plants is that they need to change their variable costs and the price for carbon emissions is in the company. And if their variable costs are 140 BGN, they will not sell below 140 BGN. With regard to TPP 2. I've heard here a prediction that TPP 2 will end up with 500 million losses. Well I would disagree with this forecast because it would be a loss, it would be a loss, but it depends on how much this power plant works. If it doesn't work, its cost plus alimony is about 70.80 million. So if TPP 2 didn't work at all, its loss would be 70 million. On the other hand, because the cost of this electricity is much more expensive than the high price of electricity currently on the market, the more this power plant works, the greater its loss. And here, the main issues that we need to discuss, perhaps in the next parliament, and not as much with the regulator as we as MPs, is how, what we are going to do in the changing world environment of energy. We do not have a purely Bulgarian problem, we do not have something that we in Bulgaria have sinned and therefore the situation in us is more severe. Not the exact opposite. Energy is changing around the world, coal plants and coal mining will be experiencing ever greater difficulties around the world, and we must make it possible to further modernise our energy and ensure, if possible, a smooth transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u151	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. From the parliamentary group there are any willing people? Mrs. Burdarska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u152	I'm sorry, Mr. Ivanov, but I'm going to have to challenge you a little bit. RZI is actually monitoring the quality of water, but they do not determine the cost of water. When there is a deviation from Regulation No 9 by any indicator, they warn water users that water should not be drunk, that is, it is no longer of drinking qualities and the price should not be corresponding to drinking water. In such a case, the price shall be for uncleaned water. There are settlements that have multi-annual water quality deviations, not to mention them to you. In fact, radioactivity is not just Haskovo, Haskovo villages. We have research on a Haskovo village, and I don't want to quote it, radioactivity is four times the norm. We have proposed a very simple scheme of filtration and coagulation of MRDP to solve this problem in this village, however, it has been refused. Since 1989 Haskovo has had a technical project of the former Watercanal Water Supply Project from Dospat Vucha, there was an ERP to Plovdiv, where the water pipeline could be made with European funds from Dospat to Plovdiv. There is now an ERP for Haskovo, and with this European money it could be from Plovdiv to Haskovo, Simeonovgrad and other settlements - Harmanli, to be watered by Dospat - Vacha with quality water and not this water to leave our borders, but this is not used. It is not KEWRC's fault here, because investments are large, and this is a lack of good management of water resources in our country, as a result of water crises, and a lack of good management of drinking water supply. I am ashamed, but I will tell you: everywhere abroad at international conferences ask me why in Bulgaria water losses are one of the biggest in the European Union. Last year's Drinking Water Directive - the new Directive of 16 December 2020, for the first time countries are quoted in a directive. And do you know what these countries are with the biggest losses of water? Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary, as there were no investments to reduce losses. Well see how much money we took under the Operational Programme "Environment", under other. SPA, under other programs, Cohesion funds, including public funds, state funds have invested and how much has the loss of water decreased? Make an account between the business plan before and now in the business plan what levels are losses. I think, first of all, that before we proceed to this business plan, all the plumbing will probably do what is the percentage of compliance of the previous business plan. Investments are bet, especially in the new business plan should reflect long-term tangible assets, capital costs, which are then reported in the cost of water, depreciation and so on. How will they forecast them by 2026 annually these projected long-term tangible assets to calculate both depreciation numbers and water price, now 14 water companies need 1 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. to seize European funds by 2023? I've never heard of construction starting with that money before. I have a feeling that we will again lose as the first period of European funding, we will still lose money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u153	Thank you. We are going to the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u154	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the independent Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! He really had a lot of questions for you. Thank you for your expertise and for the correct answers, but I have a feeling, fellow Members, that much of the questions were rather to the Ministry of Energy than to the Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory. A moment ago, colleague Dobrev said that thanks to GERB the price of gas decreased twice. Just to say that the natural gas with the last amendment is supposed to be 40%, which is a fact, but this is because the market component is involved, which is, of course, correct and in a much more transparent way, calculated the price of natural gas and this is the reason for reducing this price. Now, however, when the price of natural gas is about to rise from two months, I think that maybe GERB will not be able to bear this responsibility because we saw that from April 1st we saw that just three days before the elections, when Bulgargas submitted an application for an increase in the price of natural gas, some checks were initiated by the Ministry of Economy with BEH only before the elections KEWRC did not rule. Of course, we deeply believe in the independence of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, and we believe that they would not succumb to political pressure, as they have done before and should be. But because, bragging about who did what for natural gas, I can say for example, as my colleague Dobrev said that in my day the contract with Azerbaijan was signed, and so far this gas has not come to Bulgaria. It's really very strange why the interconnector connection isn't being built. He is right Mr. Dimitrov, because when I was a minister, the working group was created precisely, which had to speed it up.. there was a huge delay in building this relationship, but it seems strangely we do have quite a significant delay. Whether from guidance, whether for other reasons, but it is good to have it, and we welcome there to be energy diversification. We also signed the Treaty of Azerbaijan for a reason. What is the difference between us and colleagues from GERB because they talked about the price for the business that was bearable or unbearable? Look, colleagues, we, from BSP, believe that we must talk about energy poverty and finally we must formally define what this energy poverty is and must be defined in our laws. Because if 10% of the household's income goes to pay for energy costs, then we can already talk about energy poverty. Right, Mrs. Zaykova? But we have to define this once and for all. What's the problem? The problem is, colleagues, if we define it, then there will have to be direct financial costs to households, and in Bulgaria approximately 34% of the households are energy poor. This is a huge financial resource that we must afford, and we should not argue here, but we should have consent. Because if we want to conduct a full liberalisation of electricity market, we must, in the KEWRC, know exactly what the number of these households, which are led energy poor. There's no shame in that, but it has to be these households. When we fear that the price of natural gas will rise, yes, these are international quotes. We don't have our own resources here to extract natural gas so that we can influence our companies. We depend entirely on the big energy exchanges. When quotes increase there, it is normal, as now, we expect a further increase in the coming months of natural gas. Until then, we must have this mechanism to support energy poor households. This is extremely important and once and for all we need to find a solution to this particular problem. I think it is nice that there was such a discussion after all, but in the next Parliament really must deepen the work on the transformation of Bulgarian energy, because what is happening at the moment is a fog. For me personally, there is an omerta which began with the failure of the Recovery Plan in the Bulgarian Parliament. This debate was supposed to be here even more about territorial plans, about a fair transition, I'm talking about territorial plans, there should be four of them, no one knows anything. Some experts from the European Commission are writing some kind of plan, agreeing with the business I'm talking about big business organizations, but what happens at the local level, how are district managers informed, mayors, people, companies themselves, no one knows anything. This fog must be cleared once and for all, and the debate on these plans must be held here. You and I must take them because really transformation is inevitable. What we can say is that, yes, there will be a change, but this change depends on how it happens. It can be harsh, brutal, with a huge social cost, but we at BSP say that no man should lose his place. On the contrary, my workplace... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. It needs to become smooth, people need to know what awaits them, to have predictability, year by year to know how they will be spent, what these European funds are spent on, so that they are not stolen again. Thank you. [[(Voice from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u155	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. From the DPS parliamentary group, come in, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ivanov, honourable colleagues, colleagues just said that the main activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is to regulate prices, but through these prices to protect consumers and producers, Mr. Henovski. Since the pressure from the executive on the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, not only from this power, but from all of them, is so high that by not setting the normal, the real price of energy, I am not only talking about electricity, it has led to our producers' lack of innovative investment, which has also led to end-users not being able to realize and start paying energy efficiency. Therefore, Mr. Ivanov, this pressure that was held on you, this price of electricity, which is in Bulgaria, even the gas is not real. Stand up, come out and say it here exactly and clearly. Otherwise, I respect you. I will only refer to one of the factors that you have influenced and that you have arranged here on the formation of the price of energy or the making of your decisions. That's the price of emissions. Colleagues, from 25 euros, when the price of emissions reached 35 to 40, did you know that this government by taxpayers paid TPP 2 to 650 million. lv. That's 650 million. lv. Did they enter the price of the electricity of the Lord Ivanov? No. The other aid they gave to the state thermal power plants, did they enter the price of energy? No. You, Mr. Ivanov, have done so that the ownership of the state and private is not at constitutional level. You have made it so that private producers, especially from green energy, and those who produce energy from other raw materials, currently do not receive State aid, do not have the same competitiveness. What you have done with the pricing of electricity has led the state to the fact that today we need to speak a little louder about the Green Pact and about decarbonisation. In communist times there was talk of ergonomics, some others understood it as agronomy. Today, when we talk about decarbonization and gas, Mr. Dimitrov, it's about gas as energy raw materials, not to confuse it. There's no way that when emissions go up at a rate of geometric progression, the price of electricity stays the same. There's no way when we talk about decarbonization, we don't have to think about the recovery plan. We can't help but mention the free wholesale market. All this, colleagues, is connected. If we had done so since 2003 to go under the 2003 directive and now had a free market for wholesale electricity production, today our energy would have been at another level. We weren't just gonna talk about Greece's interconnector because the Greeks took the money, and they took the money company, and they didn't build the interconnector. It's not just Bulgaria. It's geopolitics. Colleagues, if we don't start right away in energy with revolutionary solutions, this is what the next government is waiting for. If we do not take revolutionary action in the economy, if the next government does not start with energy, if there is no energy for change, for energy reforms, our energy today is in a miserable state. We're waiting for the next election. Did you know that from June 1st only from the release of final customers to 30 kilos they will already go to suppliers of last resort. And how much will it cost, Mr. Ivanov? Nobody knows. Therefore, fellow Members, let us do our best to master those funds that must be mastered in the state, understand mining plants. Whether we are going to go to the carbon dioxide disposal, which is absolutely impossible for me, whether we should do as quickly as possible the steam plants of the tecs and requalify the miners is the decision that the next government has to make. If we do not turn around and we do not know what is happening with the National Recovery Plan, then we do not go through all these innovative energies, which are necessary until the hydrogen is reached, colleagues, you should know that in the next KEWRC, in any way, in any way determining the prices, as much as you want to reduce the price of the steam, as you want to reduce the price of electricity, I want to tell you that the price of electricity in Bulgaria is very low. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The price of electricity, of all energy in Bulgaria is under pressure. And understand that people who can't pay it, we have to make people have income. In order for people to have revenue, we need a new government with energy, which is not a need for the government itself to maintain itself and to tremble for its place, but to start with reforms, and in energy. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u157	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Dimitrov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u158	Madam President, honourable Members! The truth is that so far Bulgarian energy has been managed badly and this governance has lasted quite a long time. The big change that needs to be made must start from the following extremely important thing - first of all, to protect the Bulgarian interests, because we have seen and I will give you examples of how to protect obviously all other interests, but not the Bulgarian ones. This is the biggest change where we should start. First of all, there is no energy strategy. The latest energy strategy has expired and there is no new energy strategy anymore in the year. There was a previous parliament, a government that had time to develop one, but there was no energy strategy. Why is there no energy strategy? Because it's more comfortable, there are no clear priorities, you can do whatever they want. No concept, no clear path. Next, they explained to me that the relationship with Greece was gone because it was geopolitics, what do people do?! Well, the so-called Russian, Balkan or Turkish stream is not geopolitics, people! But you built it in a year. That is, when it is important for you and when you gather the different groups, which supposedly govern and pretend opposition, you build them in one year. And those that lead to real diversification, to a lower price of gas, to a lower price of steam, are geopolitics and for them 12 years does not reach! I'm afraid if it depends on the same people and for another 12 years you won't build a Greek bond. Another colleague told me that the management of this company was probably bad. Well, why didn't you guys change it? This management is changing. Someone who doesn't do their job, that's why you have a government, you change those people. If you didn't change them, then that's how you liked not to change them. Speaking of protecting the Bulgarian interests, I would like to draw your attention to the following two very important points. Under the previous natural gas supply contract, Bulgaria was entitled to claim 1 billion. The dollar penalty. And why did you guys give up? I did not hear, you were in the last parliament, none of you heard to tell Bulgaria to receive its penalties. Remind me if there was one person here to stand up and say: we do not agree to seek the damages in favor of Bulgaria! I didn't see a single person because there wasn't one. Because the Bulgarian national interest was not protected and was not protected. You've all conveniently silenced the government and opposition, and you've hugged each other, and you've forgotten about this 1 billion. The fines that were due. Next, Poland brought an arbitrage case against Gszprom and won this arbitration case according to media data. Why did Bulgaria not bring such an arbitrage case, colleagues? For a long period of time, it could have been registered. I didn't hear any of you ask for it. Yet there was none to say: there is such an opportunity to protect Bulgaria, to protect Bulgarian consumers, where there are overpaid and overpaid bills to protect them! I didn't see one of those from you. None of them said. You hugged again, you shut up again, and it all moved on to the new construction of the so-called Russian-Turkish stream. Again, Bulgarian interests were not protected. This is the main change that needs to be made, and that is why Bulgarian consumers suffer. I therefore pointed out that if this Greek connection were built as a Balkan, Turkish or Russian stream, we would have paid less gas for years, less prices for natural gas. And here a colleague said that we were paying almost the lowest price. This can only be true for a short period of time. If we take the annual average prices, there is a lot where the price of natural gas will be reduced in Bulgaria. And if there was a so-called Greek connection, ten years Bulgarian consumers would pay less for natural gas and lower prices for steam. But it's obvious you don't want it. And we are in a period where so many years have passed and it is not over that I, and I believe, and many people are convinced that if it is up to you, you will never do it. That's what this is about. In addition, you have admitted huge debts in Bulgarian energy as a "Topplofication Sofia" as a TPP 2. Where are the reforms for the recovery of these companies? Where were you in the last parliament to ask for recovery plans, because this is the real one, this is the serious attitude. You've allowed the constant accumulation of debts. And finally, Madam President, we voted for the Council of Ministers to come here in the Chamber. I do not see any of them showing the attitude towards parliamentaryism at all, and the attitude is disparaging, unfortunately. Where is it, colleagues, your Council of Ministers? The fact that they are resigned does not relieve them of their responsibility. And here should be at least the Minister of Energy and answer these questions. I conclude with the following thing: it is time for Bulgarian energy, and not only to start defending the Bulgarian interests. This is the key to defending the Bulgarian interests. Thank you. [[Applause from DB, ICN and ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u159	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u160	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u161	Here you are, Mr. Atalay, in the manner of conduct. Let's hear the specific violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u162	My fellow Members, I take the floor in the manner of conduct, not to say anything more than that, not that we have nothing to say, but when colleagues come out on this stand, I think the point is to discuss the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. If we're going to talk about energy, about the Ministry of Energy, who did what in this energy, we can start with Bakardzhiev's fanfare and get to the last signature that is placed under any document. But to come out of this tribune and talk about a pipeline that was built through Bulgaria, where both the brothers and the other brothers will use it, to make a PR out of this tribune today, because it was called a Gerberan stream and I do not know what other stream, in Bulgarian territory, and you do not know that the other funds that are separated from the European Union for the construction of the interconnectors are still in those companies that won them and do not work, in my opinion, Mr. Dimitrov, you have slightly exaggerated with the agitation. I have enough respect for you. And then Mr. Ivanov does nothing without Mr. Kostov's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u163	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. And from the parliamentary group, stand up! Goons out, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u164	Madam President, honourable Members! The hearing procedure doesn't allow... I'm asking you to time me, since my card is in some kind of trouble. The parliamentary hearing procedure does not allow those who have requested this hearing to propose a draft decision, so, unfortunately,................................................................................................. We cannot propose a draft decision to engage KEWRC, the Ministry of Energy with certain activities related to the topic under discussion, namely increasing the prices of heating, electricity, and then water in the conditions of adoption of five-year business plans. So stand up! Gourmets out! screams from the parliamentary tribune and we will follow how the KEWRC will meet these commitments that its chairman has made from here to take into account the balance between the interests of consumers and energy companies in determining the prices of steam and electricity. We warn that the economic crisis hits Bulgarian households hard, and it will be absurd and impossible for people to pay steam, increased by 130%, by 80%, 70%, 60%, as requested by the various heating companies. So we insist that the KEWRC also comply with the social tolerance of the demand for heating and electricity prices when making its decisions. We're standing up! We will participate in public discussions, even though it will then be a period of election campaign, as we have always done. We insisted, and this is our second recommendation to the KEWRC, which, unfortunately, we cannot put into a draft decision, the KEWRC to change the methodology for setting prices for heating and electricity. We took part in the public discussion when the KEWRC decided that the price of the steam will be set once a year and that when determining the price of the steam, their forecast for the price of natural gas will be taken into account for one upcoming calendar year. It became clear that the KEWRC was not a good prophet, not a good seer, because they did not know what the price of natural gas would be. And the difference, on average, is within over BGN 5, which led to the fact that the citizens of the capital, because we have been doing calculations in terms of Sofia thermal efficiency, but the situation is the same for all cities with heat efficiencys. lv.! Stolichani paid 25 million. lv. Plus! This is the difference by which the KEWRC considered the price of natural gas for a year forward and this is the price of the stubbornness of the KEWRC Despite the fall of the price of natural gas, not to touch the price of the steam from 1 January 2021, as we have insisted. This damages the Bulgarian households in times of crisis. We therefore insist that the KEWRC revise its methodology by which it determines the price of the steam once a year at forecast natural gas prices and determine the price of steam and hot water per month, as it does for natural gas. Because including this tribune, Mr. Ivanov's confession sounded that yes, the capitalists overpaid 25 million. BGN, but since in the last two months natural gas has jumped 36%, this was subsequently compensated! Excuse me, the citizens of Bulgaria, the citizens of the capital are not in a financial state that will allow them without interest to credit the heating services. So the fair solution is a month-to-month solution, as determined by the price of natural gas, as will also take into account the price of greenhouse emissions, so that it is not estimated and that month-to-month is to determine the price of steam. As regards the acceptance of business plans relating to water companies. We insist and will insist that legal changes are taken in the next Parliament to cancel the obligation of the KEWRC to determine a single price of water in the territory of one area. Decentralisation, the transition to municipal plumbing is one problem that needs to be discussed and behind which we stand. Finally, Mrs Avramova, in her reply to the Revision Committee, acknowledged and presented information that the state-owned water holding company, which was powered by 1 billion. BGN, has credited certain water companies, and the price of the provision of these funds is actually around 60 million. lv. They have chosen: Shumen, Burgas, Sliven And for other companies, they have taken an even more drastic step to raise capital. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I insist that the KEWRC, setting the price of water, should take into account that these companies are sponsored once with taxpayers' money to the water holding company and not to recognise the investment costs in question, which will also affect the cost of water.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. That concludes the hearing with this item on the agenda. Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova. A statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u166	Dear Bulgarian citizens! Just a month after the elections, the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly finished its work. You chose us in this National Assembly with high hopes of change. We start in euphoria, end in scandal. Euphoria that GERB are removed from power and Borisov will no longer be a prime minister, and scandals are supposed to be about procedures. But behind these supposed procedures, there is another truth. Interests, lobbying, party selfishness and personal ambitions. Instead of the compound to make us strong against the GERB model, our disunity has made us weak and the model continues to manage. Moreover, he continues to make fun of the parliamentary republic, because instead of being here now under our decision from the morning to come to parliamentary control, he is sitting in the living room in Bankya. And if you've seen his last statement, he's giving us advice and lying about the state's financial and economic situation. But I'll talk about it later. The main task of each Parliament is to adopt laws and exercise parliamentary control. We regret to say that this Parliament has not adopted any law in a month! Not a single law in favor of the people except the Election Code! And did not make any parliamentary control of any minister from the government of Borisov! Those are the facts. The evaluation should be left to the people who sent us here. What brought us together at first? The fight against corruption, the backstage, the parallel state and the desire to end this model of governance. We started from the first day with real action and submitted a proposal for a moratorium on certain actions of Borisov's government. Alas, the new parties in parliament do not understand why, perhaps because of party egoism.. blocked this moratorium in the first days, lost a week and it became a fact that Borisov appointed the people in the second and third levels, distributed concessions, continued spending the money from the budget. And now even stand up! Gourmets out!Should want this corrected with a new bill, there is no time. He's stuck with the judicial reform. Something in procedures has drowned and our common desire to close down the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. Whether it's in procedures or something else, it's a question of thinking. Here I will open a clamp: while we are thinking of reforming the judiciary and the prosecution, today there is a great challenge before the prosecution, and it has a name................................... And if we're a rule of law, the prosecution should've long ago self-conceived, interrogated people, sought evidence and established the truth. We don't say who she is. In the rule of law and where institutions are respected, the only authority that can say it is the prosecution and finally the court with a court sentence, acquittal or other. What else brought us together? Desire for anti-crisis measures.. Health, economic and social. This Parliament has done nothing on this matter. Nothing for a month! Where is BSP on this subject? In principle and consistent, we introduced pension recalculation laws, for young families, for increasing motherhood between the first and second years, for helping first-graders and so on, for me not to lay down all social laws. Absolutely reasonable, people with experience, consistent and principled, we linked this to the budget update. We fully understand that there is no way for such costs to be made without an update of the budget. Dear colleagues, to this day, and in the final of parliament is spent with two hundred, as Borisov said on another occasion outside the National Assembly. All the groups have brought in social laws....pre-election populism! Because BSP was the only party that wisely asked with a draft decision of the National Assembly to oblige Borisov to submit an update of the budget. Alas, none of you have asked for this decision to become a fact. And today, we are back in the humiliating situation, today. exactly an hour ago, Borisov lies that he ends the quarter of the year with an excess of 115 million. BGN because the economy was booming and growing despite the crisis! That he is living in his fictional and parallel world, it is clear, but the Bulgarian people should be aware of the lack of 115 million. lv. excess growth in the economy! And there is, perhaps, the paper-based surplus because of the 660 million taken from the concession at Sofia airport a month ago! Selling the national interest in order to bring in 660 million to get his bill on paper that leaves the state to an excess. It's like we don't hear business and we don't see the real indicators of the economy! It's as if we can't hear or see the hundreds of bankrupt small and medium-sized enterprises, the thousands left unemployed! And instead of, I say again, such a majority we had in the first days, that we would unite and today he would be here, and we would ask him, and not speak nonsense from home, we are able to leave, and he goes on. It's just a question of thinking about the future. What did a month of all other parties in parliament tell us during this time? Why were we different? The new ones called us a party of the status quo and arrogantly rejected our proposals. You have put on labels at protest parties and gained self-confidence that you can solve all issues. That was a mistake, guys. First of all, because when you didn't think about protesting, for four years BSP here fought this status quo. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are definitely not the same as Borisov's model, but we are a systematic, consistent, principled party, which, what he has been doing for the past four years, does so now. Each of you, if you think about it and do an analysis of the programs, will see without accusing you that for this month you gave up part of your promises to the people, one less, another more. We don't have one! Not only did you not give up, but we submitted them as proposals, politically justified and financially secured, but also legally justified by making an update of the budget. We were, we remain, and we will be ourselves a party with a programme and goals that are not conjunctural goals and programmes. They are not influenced by either the falling of the new ones in the wrong direction or by the resistance of the model. I'm sure even if you don't admit it, you made sure that a change of model without BSP is impossible. Dear Members of Parliament, there are different times in different parliaments. The previous, and now, we do not talk to GERB, VMRO did not talk to "Attack" and Mareshki talked to DPS. But it's never, never been for anyone to talk to in a parliament. And today and now we have come to this state that no one will talk to anyone. These elections will pass, but a second such failure, and especially in a crisis, people will not forgive us. Three weeks ago, we told you we were going into a political crisis and you didn't believe us. Well, we're up against her now! And in a crisis, it takes reason, stability, and perspective. We have solutions, we want stability and we give perspective. It remains to find reason in the future parliament for the good of Bulgaria and with care for the people. [[((World applause from BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Any other affidavits? Mrs. Manolova, do you want the floor for a declaration from the Parliamentary Group? Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u168	Madam President, honourable Members! It is normal that on the last plenary day it is here from the parliamentary platform to sound the report of each of the parliamentary groups on the short life of the 45th National Assembly. Stand up! We are the platform of active citizens. We were sent to parliament to protect the people of labour to protect entrepreneurs in order to protect people with free professions. Those who work in two places to provide sustenance to their families. These people do not want to listen to and see what the 45th Parliament produces - parties that deal with themselves - parties that deal with their party interests instead of the interests of ordinary Bulgarian citizens. In just nine plenary days of 25 days of life at the 45th National Assembly, we have submitted 31 draft laws and draft decisions... [[(Noise, lines and shouts by GERB-SDS:]] Yes, it is. Socially thinking MPs from GERB did not introduce any bill outside the Election Code. Not one! Not a single project for a solution. There are parliamentary groups that did not bring anything into the paper that is related to the problems of ordinary Bulgarian citizens. In these bills, we proposed concrete measures to support the most vulnerable groups, raise incomes to support pensioners and better access to health care. First of all, we didn't forget the pensioners, as promised. In addition to our proposal to recalculate pensions to Insurance Income in 2018, which has never been considered, we have also submitted a proposal for Parliament to provide these plus 50 leva. the allowance of Bulgarian pensioners by the end of this calendar year to keep people calm, regardless of how they change office or regular governments that they will receive these plus 50 levs. in a crisis. But there were MPs and parliamentary groups who did not support the entry into the agenda of this proposal. There's no money for the pensioners, but there's money for the friendly circles. We did not forget the small and medium-sized companies and, as promised, we offered 200 million. lv. direct financial support for small and medium-sized companies. Four medium-sized salaries for companies and self-insuring persons who have decreased their turnovers over 30%. Not only for closed businesses, but also support for those who have reduced their activities as a result of the pandemic. There were parties that blocked support for self-insuring individuals and small companies as early as the Budget Committee and this bill was never reviewed in the parliamentary committee. There's no money for the business, but there's money for the friendly circle! We didn't forget the disabled. As promised, together with the "There is such a people" we have tabled proposals for amendments to the Personal Aid Act in order to restore the texts as adopted by the 44th National Assembly after the protests, a multi-month chamber camp in front of the Parliament of the Mothers of the System kills us! Is there money for people with disabilities? I won't. There's money for friendly circles! We didn't forget the citizens' consumer problems. We have tabled, as promised, a private bankruptcy law that would be truly vital to the people who have fallen into debt slavery because the Constitutional Court ruled 10 days ago and repealed the 10-year absolute statute adopted by the previous parliament. Now the people are left in the hands of the financial institutions, the rapid credit companies, the collectors' companies. We also introduced a bill on collectors, which has no chance of getting into any of the parliamentary committees. Today's hearing of the KEWRC is on the proposal of the Parliamentary Group. The people's bills for electricity and heating are important to us. And thanks to this we have heard assurances from the KEWRC that the interests of consumers will be protected in setting prices for the next period. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We insisted from the first hour of this Parliament that the Recovery and Sustainability Plan be introduced to Parliament and then sent to the European Commission because business expects this money really in the fastest possible way and the government's responsibility is the agreements reached with the Ministry of Economy for more than 600 million. lv. to really realize this vital money to reach the Bulgarian companies. We're standing up! We have submitted for immediate consideration the suspension of the limits in the National Health Insurance Fund. Yes, it is important for us, but we have put it in a specific bill that has never been addressed by the Committee on Health. However, our proposal for amendments to the Law on Medical Institutions was adopted at first reading. I hope that the next parliament will accept this project and there will be the possibility that the outrageous appointments of party ladybugs, people without expertise on the management bodies of state hospitals, these appointments will be cancelled and there will be transparent, fair and fair competitions which can be appealed to the Bulgarian court. It's us from Stand up! We insisted that MPs reduce their salaries from 3 average salaries or, as we thought, with fellow skeptics from the last lines, from 7,000. lv. on 1 average salary in the public sector from BGN 1400. It can be checked by the transcripts, I will not blame specific parliamentary groups, I will not do it, but can you see whether any parliamentary group supports this proposal for reducing parliamentary salaries? One way or another, each of the parliamentary parties has found a way not to support this proposal. And something that's extremely important. The 45th National Assembly, and this must be admitted to him, took two very brave steps to expel the goons from the government and to restore the basic justice in the Bulgarian society. Firstly, a moratorium was introduced on transactions and appointments of power, as a draft for such a moratorium was proposed by the Parliamentary Group of. Goons out! and, secondly, the Committee of Audits has been set up. They both ignited a fierce resistance to power. Borisov's spies did their best to block the activities of the Committee on Revision, and the decision on moratorium was sent to the Constitutional Court. But for eight days, for a total of 25 days, this National Assembly has shown that the goons are leaving the government, leaving with fierce resistance, leaving with the cost of defending the status quo with all forces and funds from the ruling until recently party GERB. [[Noise, lines, laughter from GERB-SDS.]] For a total of nine plenary days of 25, it was seen that the goons were leaving and that there would be no coalition with them. There will be no coalition with the addicts, no coalition with the drawer model. Although the drawer opened for a coalition, heard the hard answer: No! [[Noise, lines, laughter from GERB-SDS.]] The audit committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u169	Mrs. Manolova...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u170	...has become a guarantor for the restoration of justice. They started with the first signals to come out the truth about the dirty secrets of power. This committee will continue its work. And, yes, the signals of Mr. Ilchovski and the other citizens, of the other racketeering businesses and blackmailers will not only reach the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, they will also reach the European Prosecutor's Office in order to have a real investigation of the outrage and the racketeering that the Bulgarian business is subjected to during the management of Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u171	Thank you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u172	And yes, the National Assembly is no longer a laughing stock...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u173	Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u174	...whatever Borisov turned him into, and you're not...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u175	Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u176	...you are not masters... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u177	Mrs. Manolova, thank you. Mr. Hadjigenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I am making a request under an extension procedure, insofar as, judging from the debates, we will not be able to pass on the following points, namely ratification Air Polishing, draft committee on police violence last year, please be put to the vote. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u179	Until when, Mr. Hadjigenov, what point do you want parliament to work to? [[Replyes: "To the end of the agenda. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u180	Until we run out of agendas. Thanks so much for the tip.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u181	Okay. Thank you. Here you go. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u182	I have an offer to slow down the pre-election talk... [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure. Yes, I have an offer. I'm going to put something else to the vote, which means I'm going to put it to the vote and one more thing...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u183	You can't put anything... [[Noise and lines.]] You can't put anything through, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u184	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u185	You want a reverse procedure? You want a reverse procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, make your offer. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u186	Okay, literals, reverse procedure. [[Heckling]] I suggest that we extend working hours and choose only those things that are practical, which may have a solution. [[Noise and lines.]] These are point five for the "Sputnik" and the Amendment Bill the Air Polish Agreement. This is important. Everything else is political talk until tomorrow morning. Have some common sense on the last day.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u187	Mr. Yordanov, do I understand that you want an exchange point eight to become point six?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u188	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u189	Okay. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Hadjigenov's furthest proposal to continue the work of the National Assembly until the agenda is exhausted. [[Heckling]] Vote 172 MPs: 65 against 99, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u190	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u191	Please re-vote. Vote 176 MPs: 61 against 101, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Please show in groups. I am now voting on the proposal made by Mr. Yordanov point eight to become point six and the Parliament's work to be completed after its exhaustion. Vote 184 MPs: 170 against 7, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u192	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u193	Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u194	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, a few hours ago the Bulgarian Parliament decided that the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister should be in plenary. Please inform the people's representation what is going on....... are they traveling, will they not come, will they not come? However, the Constitution and the laws allow other means for these people to be brought in and to answer the questions of the Bulgarian MPs. They are already obliged by decision to attend, not by invitation. So I ask you to exercise your right to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u195	And a Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u196	And a Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u197	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Under the Constitution, we have obliged the Prime Minister and the ministers in resignation to come to the National Assembly. I don't have an answer for them to come. We made the call. I will also personally call the Prime Minister's office in resignation and inform you of the answer from there. Let us not forget that the responsibility is political of the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly there are no other mechanisms. Thank you. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCOMPANISH THE MINISTER'S COUNCIL OF COVID-19 THE ACQUISITION OF THE BULGARIAN CIVERS' ACCESS TO THE RUSSIAN VAXINA AGAINST COVID-19 I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Health to present the Report to the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u198	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Health on the Draft Decision on the Award of the Council of Ministers...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 21 April 2021. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health: Prof. Dr. Kostadin Angelov, Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva and Dr. Boyko Penkov; the Executive Director of the Executive Medicines Agency Mr. Bogdan Kirilov; the Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Petko Salchev; representatives of the word organizations in the field of health care; patient organizations and trade unions. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by Prof. Dr. Georgi Mihailov, who informed the MPs that this proposal aims to ensure the access of Bulgarian citizens to the vaccine against the CIVID-19 He explained that the vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Janssen are already being administered in Bulgaria, but the difficulties in delivering the necessary quantities to meet the needs of the population lead to a violation of the established national vaccination plan. It has been pointed out that other European countries, such as Hungary and Slovakia, have already taken advantage of the right to independently negotiate the purchase of vaccines outside the common agreements concluded by the European Union. In relation to the above and led by the understanding that the necessary amount of vaccines is of primary importance for the health of Bulgarian citizens, as well as the need for the country's timely return to normal public and economic life, it is proposed that the Council of Ministers should take all action to ensure the Russian vaccine against COVID-19. Prof. Dr. Kostadin Angelov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Health, stating that at present there are four approved by the European Medicines Agency and authorised for use by the European Commission vaccines against COVID-19, whose supplies in the country are carried out regularly and without interruption. On 3 February 2021, the European Medicines Agency also started an ongoing examination of the CIVID-19 vaccine of the company Novavax and on 12 February 2021. CureVac's vaccine. These current views shall continue intensively until sufficient evidence is available for the issue of an official application for a marketing authorisation, which is expected to occur as soon as possible. The inclusion of our country in all procedures for the purchase and delivery of vaccines included in the European Union portfolio ensures diversification of the supply of vaccines in the Republic of Bulgaria and ensures the vaccine coverage of Bulgarian citizens against COVID-19. The agreement by which the European Commission is authorised to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines, the so-called Advance Purchase Agreement with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, was approved by Decision No 491 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 and ratified by the Law on the ratification of the Agreement by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of Advance Purchase Agreement vaccines with their producers in order to provide Member States with vaccines in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, pc. The Commission shall be empowered to The participation requested by the Republic of Bulgaria in all agreements for the delivery of vaccines guarantees the Bulgarian citizens access to the entire vaccine portfolio agreed by the European Commission and the manufacturers of medicinal products, thereby ensuring diversification of the supply of vaccines, and the Republic of Bulgaria has secured the vaccine coverage of the Bulgarian citizens against COVID-19. Under the current Bulgarian legislation in the field of medicinal products, which is fully harmonised with the European in order to distribute a medicinal product in the Republic of Bulgaria, it should be authorised for use and this can be done under a European or national procedure. Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and control of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency introduced a centralised European Union procedure for the authorisation of medicinal products and regulated its scope. The procedure is mandatory for certain products, including products with a new active substance obtained by biotechnology, as well as those for the prevention and treatment of viral diseases such as vaccines against COVID-19. In the centralised procedure, a marketing authorisation for a medicinal product is granted by the European Commission on a proposal from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) to the European Medicines Agency, following an in-depth expert evaluation of the quality, efficacy and safety of the medicinal product concerned, established and demonstrated on the basis of the clinical trials carried out with it. Prof. Angelov explained that at present there is no application for authorisation of the Russian vaccine, Sputnik V. The vaccine is subject to consideration by the Committee for Medicinal Products in Human Medicine of the European Medical Agency under the regulatory mechanism rolling review (current review) launched at the beginning of March 2021. This procedure can only be used during emergencies such as this pandemic. This allows the European Medical Agency to assess data on vaccine or medicine when they become available to decide whether the benefits outweigh the risks. In this case, the formal authorisation procedure may take place within a very short time. The current review will continue until sufficient evidence is available for the submission of an official application for authorisation and the EMA will assess the compliance of the VSputnik with the usual European Union standards on efficacy, safety and quality. At present, the European Medical Agency has planned an inspection of the vaccine manufacturer to establish compliance with the requirements of the European Union Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) in May 2021. Following an application for the authorisation of the vaccine by the manufacturer or his authorised representative, the European Medical Agency is committed to providing further information on the medicinal product. In view of the above, in order to be applied in the country, the vaccine produced by the National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology In conclusion, Prof. Angelov stressed that the Ministry of Health is constantly monitoring the current information available and is in contact with the European institutions, the World Health Organization and others, so that all potential alternative options for dealing with the disease CIVID-19, which has caused the current global pandemic, can be analyzed. The Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Medicines, Mr. Bogdan Kirilov, shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that with the provision of art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine has created a legal possibility in the event of an epidemic caused by pathogenic micro-organisms or toxins, or in the case of suspected or confirmed distribution of chemical agents or nuclear radiation, the Minister of Health on a reasoned proposal of the Chief State Health Inspector and in agreement with the Executive Director of the Drug Executive Agency with an order to authorise treatment for a certain period with a medicinal product not authorised under Chapter 3 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and there is no suitable authorised medicinal product for use. He added that the Russian vaccine "Sputnik V" does not fall within the scope of the above provision, as it is intended to prevent a new coronary infection, not for treatment and there are four other appropriate authorised medicinal products in the territory of the European Union and in Bulgaria. The opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union was presented by Dr. Stoyan Borisov, who pointed out that at the moment four approved vaccines against COVID-19 are being applied in Bulgaria, and in the last month supplies in the country are being carried out regularly and the vaccination range of the population is improving. The Chairman of the Association of the Bulgarian Society for Infectious Diseases.Professor Dr. Tatiana Chervenyakova pointed out that the vaccine "Sputnik V" uses heterogeneous recombinant adenovirus, i.e. two different strains as the first and second doses in an interval of 21 days. The difference with AstraZeneca vaccine is the use of one vector for both doses and with Johnson & Johnson vaccine is the use of one vector for one dose. She explained that adenovirus vaccines have their differences, but they induce an immune response even after one dose. Based on experience to date, it is known that adenovirus vaccines have been observed, although very rarely, adverse reactions associated with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. With regard to the Russian vaccine, which is vector-based adenovirus, there is not sufficient data at this stage regarding the risks of adverse reactions. Professor Chervenyakova added that the European Medicines Agency is expected to conduct an inspection of the clinical studies of the Russian vaccine and its production cycle in order to be able to come up with a step-by-step assessment. She clarified that the opinions of leading research centres do not call into question the effectiveness of the Russian vaccine, but at this stage there is only preclinical data available and there is no approval by the European Medical Agency. The written opinion of the Bulgarian Association of Clinical Immunology states that two vector vaccines of AstraZeneca and Janssen Pharmaceutica are already authorised for use in Bulgaria, while the vaccine is with similar mechanism of action. In a similar mechanism of action of vector vaccines similar side effects could be expected. With regard to the VSputnik, no official data are available on the type and frequency of side effects based on the immunized population, and there is insufficient information on the vaccine characteristics such as clinical trials, efficacy, adverse reactions, etc. The Association points out that the World Health Organisation and the European Medicines Agency are conducting a joint study of the vaccine, which will allow the publication of more and credible information. On the basis of the above, no opinion can be given at this stage on the appropriateness of the registration and application of the vaccine. In the written opinion of the National Association of General Practitioners in Bulgaria it is noted that the subject of the vaccine "Sputnik V" could not be identified as dangerous or ineffective on the basis of the published data and a procedure for its approval by the European Medical Agency is currently under way. It is noted that given the irregular and limited supply of vaccines in Bulgaria in recent months, as well as the possibility of the occurrence of adverse reactions in other already widely administered vaccines, it is likely sufficient reason to suggest that the Council of Ministers should consider the possibility of applying the VSputnik in Bulgaria after its approval by the European Medical Agency and take the related preliminary actions similar to other Member States of the European Union. The association also pays attention to the unsatisfactory organisation for the distribution of the available vaccines to medical aid contractors, the creation and maintenance of inequalities between them, as well as among those to be vaccinated, resulting in a delay in the vaccination process and the achievement of a larger vaccination range. During the discussion some of the members of the Committee on Health expressed support for the proposed draft decision and insisted the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to buy the vaccine before its approval by the European Medicines Agency and issuing a marketing authorisation by the European Commission, as many Member States of the European Union have already done, such as Hungary, Slovakia, Germany and others. At the same time, it was pointed out that the Republic of Bulgaria is a member of the European Union and must comply with current European legislation in the field of medicinal products, which explicitly provides for the distribution of a medicinal product within the Union to be carried out only after obtaining a marketing authorisation in accordance with the established order. Attention was also paid to the fact that there has already been an adopted decision of the National Assembly of 5 March 2021 on the award of the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to conduct timely consultations with the European Commission in order to examine the possibilities for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the pandemic of COVID-19, which have been authorised for use in countries outside the European Union or the European Economic Area (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union). 20 from 2021) , which empowers the Council of Ministers to start negotiations with the vaccine manufacturer Sputnik V During the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee on Health Dr. Alexander Simidchiev made a proposal for editorial amendments to the text of the draft decision under consideration, which was not adopted by the Commission. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision on the award of the Council of Ministers to ensure access of Bulgarian citizens to the Russian vaccine against COVID-19 Sputnik V., No 154 02-18, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 21 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u199	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. On behalf of the importers, who will present the Project? Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! Dr. Simidchiev, you were about to beat Dr. Daritkova's record with this report. We had here one such case, in which she read a report on a bill of a row of 25 minutes, and it was, as the old Bulgarians said, the whole hall. But the issue is too important, very serious and it has several sides. We here in the past year have met very dramatically several times around the COVID-19 problem, a global problem with serious consequences. Only at the beginning of the discussions were there a consensus in the National Assembly on the declaration of a state of emergency. Since then, many facts have accumulated that have divided the political forces into different opinions. But, unfortunately, this year and something, thanks to the measures of the government and the decisions of the parliament, Bulgaria found itself in two indecent situations that fully characterize the actions of the government, government and all the advisory bodies in terms of effectiveness in combating the phenomenon of COVID-19. Bulgaria and today here are the data from the statistics, is the last number of vaccinated on the continent of Europe and one of the top mortality sites around the world. [[shows]] Whether it is third, whether it is second, at times it was first, whether it is fourth, it does not matter, honourable Members! [[Noise and lines GERB-SDS.]] I do not see the point to contradict this data, I do not see the point to comment on their characteristics and yet I am obliged to go back in time, in memory of the colleagues who went away in fighting the CIVID-19, in memory of the Bulgarian citizens who left the COVID-19 to remind everyone who were the main phases in the development of the pandemic in Bulgaria and how the governing body of the state reacted. The first phase was undoubtedly when mankind did not have opportunities for active prevention through immunization of the population. This lasted until December 2020. You remember the foolish decisions of the government when the mountains were guarded, the parks were closed cities in several hundred sick. Then, when BSP warned that serious measures should be taken in the summer, to strengthen the health system, to make corridors for the patients with socially significant diseases, we reached the second problem of overload, ugly paintings in front of hospitals. Then came the next serious phase? the possibility of vaccination and the wrong decisions of the government, repeat: the wrong decisions of the government regarding the diversification of vaccines, when we speak here in exact numbers, of 18 million vaccines were ordered 12 million of vaccines that created problems afterwards, and one of them will not be produced by the end of 2021. Even then, BSP proposed several measures, including vaccination, modification of the vaccination plan. Unfortunately, they were not accepted by the parliament at the time "this proposal came in and then, was rejected and now we are in this situation, which I quoted only a few minutes ago: last in number of vaccinated and at the top of mortality! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I can't help but wonder at some of my fellow Members who are screaming, they won't solve things, honourable Members. We are pleased with the Commission's decision, which, with the exception of GERB, supported us, and we believe that this decision will be entirely in favor of the Bulgarian nation. People are watching us right now, they know what their interests are and we have at least one chance after the Election Code to adopt a solution in favor of the Bulgarian nation. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u201	For a statement? [[Noise and lines.]] For a line? [[Noise and lines. National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor for a declaration.]] Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the end of the mandate of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, it is appropriate to make an account of what it has done and what it will contribute to the Bulgarian people. The leaders of other parliamentary groups have already spoken. However, the only thing that the forty-fifth National Assembly gave to the Bulgarian people are the amendments to the Election Code, nothing else! All other pompously announced initiatives for both the majority electoral system and for reducing party subsidies, and for closing the specialized court and prosecution, and for indexing pensions, and for the support of the mothers of children with disabilities, turned out to be election smokes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u203	Recalculating pensions, not indexing!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u204	Scandals are also smoke, cloudy water to push through only and only amendments to the Election Code. The main amendment, the most important amendment made by the majority in this Forty-Fifth National Assembly, is the introduction of 100% mandatory machine voting, notice, without society having the right to check the result of the machine vote. Since the beginning of the democratic transition, elections have been carried out by the people. On election day, the people, the sovereign personally exercise their most sovereign right to elect their representatives in each kind of assembly. In 12 thousand section election committees are attended by members, advocates and observers representatives of the same people, representatives of all parties, NGOs, observers from abroad. This makes at least 100,000 Bulgarian women and men who organize, manage and implement the electoral process. Not the CEC, the Bulgarian people make the elections. This is also expressed by the people's sovereignty under the Constitution. With the amendments of the Election Code, carried out by the majority in this National Assembly, the popular sovereignty over the electoral process was taken away by the Bulgarians and delegated to machines. Machines that were supposed to be the alternative suddenly became non-alternative. Yes, GERB supported and put in place the alternative machine voting, but we did not think that other political forces would abuse the good intentions in such a way as to turn them into a public threat. The speed and radicality with which the amendments to the Election Code were adopted forcelessly, without debates and without public discussions voted on against Good Friday and published in an extraordinary number of the Official Journal. According to these amendments, the Bulgarian people are obliged to vote only with machines. And there's only one right to get one print out of the machine protocol without being able to control how it's drawn and without being able to check the numbers in it. How much do you not have to trust your people to tell them that a machine is worth more than he is? How can you claim that the elections held in the traditional way are not transparent and entrust the entire electoral process to a software sealed in a box whose algorithms are incomprehensible to at least 73% of the Bulgarian society? How can you claim that whole sectional committees can be wrong and a machine can't, provided that the Election Code itself records what happens if the machine is damaged? What if the algorithms on the machine start giving the wrong results? Can democracy in Bulgaria be placed according to a computer algorithm? Is the software, ladies and gentlemen, more honorable or more reliable? Will he take care of our freedom better than we do the people of Bulgaria? What if it falls into devious hands? What if he's affected in some way? So there is no evidence around the world that such software can be influenced. If someone says he doesn't allow citizens to count the votes of citizens, it can mean only one thing, that the elections are being stolen. There can be no other logical explanation. In no other European country, engine voting is allowed or directly prohibited, and it is with these arguments that the national sovereignty of a machine or a computer algorithm can be delegated. Elections must be held by the people, in the eyes of the people and with the direct participation of the people. The machine can help, but it can't determine the election result on its own. In Bulgaria at the moment the machine has become the only factor that will determine the results of the elections. The electoral code adopted by the majority obliges the people to trust the machine rather than themselves. In their contempt for this same people, the authors of the Election Code took away the rights and placed machines to control it. This attitude towards the Bulgarian people should not and cannot be tolerated and tolerated. With 100% machine voting, there must be rules on how the people control the machines. The majority didn't accept such rules. It opened Pandora's box. We have to lock her up before it's too late. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are obliged to make one final effort to save trust in the electoral process, to ensure that the next elections are transparent and fair and that we respect our people. We ask all system parties to invite their representatives to the Central Election Commission, to adopt a decision by which the sectional election committees will be obliged to count the checks and to verify the results obtained with the result shown by the machine protocol. In this way, we will have a double guarantee that the elections were honest.. the data from the machines and the data from the national census. If the data matches anywhere, the better. But if someone tells us that there's no need to do that and that if the Election Code doesn't say that the receipts should be counted, then they shouldn't count, we'll tell them that if he really thinks so, then he obviously knows who's ready to steal the election and change the will of the people. If anyone tells us that according to the current Election Code adopted by the previous National Assembly, the receipts did not count, we will say: yes, perhaps this was a omission of the previous ones. But if you claim to be better, then guarantee an honest and democratic election process.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u205	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u206	We believe that the President of the Republic would support such a request. If this proposal of ours is rejected by the majority of the CEC, we will insist that all our representatives in the sectional election committees do not leave the premises until the control receipts are counted and verified with the result of the machine protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u207	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u208	I'm done, Madam President. Our only task, colleagues, is to ensure transparent and fair elections from now on. This is the task of the CEC, and this is also the task of the caretaker government. You can call us old-fashioned, analog...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u209	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u210	...or whatever you want, but we won't allow you to create conditions for corrupting the vote. Let us ensure together that the elections will be fair in the name of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u211	Thank you. Mr. Mitov, come in for a statement. Mr. Mitov, Mr. Chorbanov, Mr. Hassan Ademov and you, and Mrs. Daritkova after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u212	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In Bulgarian politics there is a rule that has established itself over the years, namely that when Kremlin sneezes, BSP gets sick. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And this rule is especially valid obviously in pandemic conditions. The Russian vaccine "Sputnik" may be good, it may not be "we don't know that for sure. The European Medicines Agency has not checked and confirmed its qualities. There are rules in the European Union and we are obliged to follow them. We can't just because someone close to the Kremlin party had an idea, and hop, we're breaking the rules of the Union that we're part of. He just can't! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And why, my fellow Members, have you decided to be exactly the Sputnik V? Why don't you vote to buy all three Russian vaccines because there are two more? I call on you not to mix political, commercial or, if you will, geopolitical interests with those of Bulgarian citizens and their health. Once again, the VSputnik may be a good vaccine, it may not be, it may not be effective, it may not be, but let this be confirmed and proven by the European Medicines Agency. Some of you here will probably now say: but Hungary has acquired the VSputnik, and it is part of the European Union. Then I ask myself: why is Viktor Orban vaccinated with the Chinese vaccine? [[Noise and lines.]] And as we are on the subject of the Chinese vaccine, the European Medicines Agency yesterday put in the so-called rolling review one of the Chinese vaccines. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is practically yesterday at the stage of approval by the European regulator, at which it is also located. Why don't you vote and get us some of that Chinese vaccine? What about the American Novawaks? It is also in the stage of review of the documentation. Give a mandate immediately to bring the Bulgarians and from it. There's an Indian vaccine. Let's buy that, too. Dear Members of Parliament, if you vote on this proposal, you will enter history as the MPs who have clearly broken a law and I urge you not to. Finally, Bulgarian citizens need to know that just a few days ago in Brazil the health authorities blocked the imports and applications of Sputnik V. The reason is lack of sufficiently reliable data on the safety and efficacy of this vaccine. The Brazilian health authorities have found that the adenovirus vector is capable of replicating itself, that is, actively infecting people who are vaccinated with it. Let us also recall the case in Slovakia when, when delivering 200,000 vaccines, the Slovak health authorities found that the quality of these vaccines had nothing to do with what is described in the journal "Lancet" and what was demonstrated during production in Russia. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] My appeal to you is for more patience. Let the European Medicines Regulator decide. I really can't figure out what's causing this rush.! By the end of June Bulgaria will have more than 6 million vaccines by the end of the year with more than 13 million. There is enough for the Bulgarian population to be vaccinated. We have two vector vaccines at the warehouse, and you want us to buy a third, provided that the European Medicines Agency has not ruled, provided that Brazil has stopped this vaccine, provided that you will violate a European regulation and if you will violate a Bulgarian law. If you do not know the Bulgarian law, Dr. Simidchiev told you, I will remind you. Under the current Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, in order to place one medicinal product on the market in Bulgaria, it should have a valid marketing authorisation issued by the Drug Executive Agency or the European Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u213	The line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u214	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mitov, I want to remind you of something. You are not obliged to know the details of these issues on which you are speaking, and I am a little surprised by your zealous statement. All vaccines.. four which are in the territory of the European Union approved by the FDA were approved under condition. It's a condition! You remember very well, as an experienced administrator, how many problems two of them have experienced in the last three months. This argument, even more disproved by the European Commissioner for Health, who literally stated that any state under extraordinary legislation can decide to negotiate with a producer country, regardless of who it is, for the interest of its nation, gave the opportunity in the previous parliament and in this decision to be taken. Let us not enter into the hypothesis: we do not know what is good and what is bad, we enter into the hypothesis of the interest of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u215	A hole, Mr. Mitov? You don't want to. Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u216	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not make political statements, but I will speak from the position of a citizen who is involved in making vaccines. I'm the last person to be charged with Russophile. I feel European and I am firm on compliance with European norms and laws, but the situation is really extreme. This is not about the approval of aspirin and analgin and the compliance with all those legal norms that EMA has postulated us accordingly. Let us not forget, once again, that each country assumes individual responsibility with the use of vaccines and therefore each vaccinated person signs an informed consent that this preparation has not passed all the tests that are necessary. Moreover, although EMA approved several vaccines, many countries individually stopped using them for various reasons, mostly the many side effects. In this respect, the Russian vaccine is one of the vaccines with at least adverse reactions and reported. It is not about countries with insufficient freedom of speech, but European countries in which it is used. The reason I support this idea of talking to the manufacturer of this vaccine in the Commission is the fact that European countries are immune to this vaccine. Half of Hungary is immunized with this vaccine and immunologists in Hungary claim that there are no side effects. Half of Serbia is also immune to this vaccine under the same conditions. Of course, there is also a Chinese vaccine - Turkey is very immunized with the Chinese vaccine and there is nothing wrong with commenting on the Chinese vaccine. It is said that for months we have been in a situation of absolute shortage of vaccines for all kinds of reasons. I will not even comment on what they are. There were queues, there were reluctances, many people. Anyone who wants to be vaccinated and immunized should be able to be vaccinated accordingly. Another point is that it should not be commented exclusively on how to say illegally that the vaccine may be good or bad. Depends on what EMA determines. It is about world data and in this respect vaccines worldwide have the most diverse distribution. Forty countries around the world use this vaccine. Russia has been one of the best vaccine producers in the classical and vaccine producers for a very long time, so anything should not be politicized. My question was this. This is not about breaking the laws, this is not about non-compliance with European affairs at all. [[Noise and lines.]] Let me explain. We are talking about something more acute: why has no one in the government called the governments of Slovakia, Hungary and Germany to ask what is the reason they imported this vaccine, and how have they avoided European legislation? Hungary, I keep saying, is a member of the European Union, although it immunizes half its population with a vaccine not approved by the EMA. So my question is what is the mechanism for European countries to do it? Bulgarian citizens must have an alternative and no longer who does not want to, will choose Pfizer and will choose AstraZeneka. This vaccine is on a different principle. It's based on the Ebola vaccine, which is very successful. The vaccine for Ebola was established 2015 and approved 2020. It does not sign an informed consent. She's gone through all the stages. The Russian vaccine, which is referred to as "Sputnik V" and that is why it was chosen as a proposal, is on the same principle, exactly the same principle as the vaccine for Ebola, with the same two vector adenoviruses. I'll just say about the adenoviruses. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, have adenoviruses in your throat. I can tell you that this is a pathogen that normally coexists with us, and it shouldn't be speculated on this thing. [[noise and lines]] The vaccine has been through enough tests. Yes, the European Commission has not approved it yet. This is precisely why I believe that Bulgarian citizens should have an alternative. Whoever fears and doesn't accept it has the right not to. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. I hope, Mr. Naydenov, if I remember your name correctly, that when you want a line, I'll give it to you with pleasure, but you won't yell like that. We're not in the stadium after all. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u218	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to begin first by saying that the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria states that the National Assembly is adopting laws, declarations and decisions. Therefore, I call on all those who speak from this tribune on this subject to speak on the subject, which is: A draft decision for the award of the Council of Ministers to provide access to the Russian vaccine to the Bulgarian citizens. That's the subject of the decision. All other scientific arguments on the topic of Imunology, on the topic of, say, Epidemiology, and so on are not about this plenary. There are scientific institutes that have to deal with in detail which of the vaccines meets the conditions for quality, effectiveness and safety, which of the vaccines does not comply with and the appropriate order of authorisation for the use of these medicinal products. But what are we looking at right now? Once again, we are looking at the Draft Decision on the Award of the Council of Ministers to ensure the access of Bulgarian citizens to the vaccine. Such a project for those who do not know was also discussed at the end of the previous National Assembly. BSP colleagues then submitted the same Project for a Decision, GERB colleagues expanded this project. This project has been adopted and has been commissioned and now this procurement procedure, this project is under way, the Council of Ministers has been tasked with negotiating for all authorised vaccines for use. This is the actual situation at the moment. And any experience here, from this tribune, with mutual attacks, with experience, excuse the expression, overshadowing one or another parliamentary group in terms of who is pò, pò, pò, the most in this discussion, practically does not work. And the main goal of these projects, I hope, is to speed up the rate of vaccination, because from this tempo depends on how quickly the desired immunological protection of Bulgarian citizens will be achieved. That's what I think is the real discussion. Otherwise we can enter into any discussions on the topic: what are the advantages of one, what are the disadvantages of the other and so on, but the task of the National Assembly is now to examine the draft decision. However, let us return to the speech of a spokesperson of the European Commission. See what he says and his colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria and, of course, take this statement: The European Union countries have the freedom to obtain vaccines outside the European Commission's strategy, but under their own responsibility, notice a very important addition to their own responsibility. Well, there are national regulatory authorities in Bulgaria. This national regulatory authority is called the Medicines Agency. This Drug Agency has its obligations, which I'm going to say a little further on what this is about. It is clear to everyone that the European Medicines Agency has currently authorised four vaccines for use within the European Union. Bulgaria has ratified by Law in this National Assembly Agreement with the European Commission, with this agreement delegateing the right to the European Commission to negotiate the quantities of vaccines on the principle of equality. The idea is for all European citizens to have equal access to authorised vaccines in Bulgaria. This is what the European Commission wants. Next, however, what does the Bulgarian legislation say? And here immediately arises the question that my fellow Members have raised a moment ago: why are there countries in the European Union that we can also add to these countries France, Hungary, Slovakia and so on, Germany, that I do not list all those who allow such an approach to the national assessment of the quality and effectiveness of vaccines, because their drug agencies have the opportunity to carry out a preliminary assessment of the impact of these vaccines in terms of quality, efficiency and safety? In terms of assessment of the side effects, the Bulgarian Medicines Agency does not have this capacity. That is what the Minister of Health said, said by the Chairman of the Executive Agency or what was the name of the Executive Director of the Medicines Agency. This is the difference between those who have allowed themselves to refer to the national procedure for the reception of medicinal products and those who are not, although they are entitled to do so. Next, what does our Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine say? On a proposal from the Minister of Health in agreement with the National Health Inspector and with the permission of the Executive Director of the Medicines Agency, permission may be granted for products with a new active substance and only for treatment, not for prophylaxis for products with a new active substance and for prevention and treatment of This is extremely important because vaccines do not cure, they prevent the possibility of disease. However, when it comes to medicinal products and when the Agency authorises such rules under the national procedure, then the medicinal product must not have an authorised product with the same active substance, i.e. no analogues. If there are no analogues, then once the Minister of Health under this procedure can authorise the use of the product in Bulgaria. So, in order for Bulgaria to authorise the application of this product under the national procedure, the Medicines Agency must have the capacity, it must have the opportunity to examine these preparations, these vaccines in terms of quality, in terms of efficiency, in terms of safety. Unfortunately, our Medicines Agency does not have this capacity, it cannot examine these qualities, and that is why the national procedure in Bulgaria before the Community procedure is implemented is not possible to implement this proposal. Otherwise, honourable Members, I ask you very much not to turn this discussion into a geopolitical dispute, because there is no geopolitical policy in this project, there is not even a cough or sneeze in this project, there is an interest in the Bulgarian citizens to overcome the phases faster to be vaccinated, faster to reach this level of vaccinated citizens, which will allow the acquisition of the so-called collective immunity. Everything else is empty talk from this tribune. I ask you to comply with European and Bulgarian legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u219	Mr. Mihailov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Ademov, I am surprised that an intelligent man like you, so many minutes to lose to bring from nine wells of water and to say how one solution cannot happen. I would like to remind you that, in the last term, under the pressure of the ruling GERB, Parliament decided to return this question to the European Commission............................... Now I would like to tell you as a 10-year-old member of the Committee on Medicinal Control, which legalized all medicines that entered the territory of Bulgaria at the Executive Medicines Agency, that it does not respond at all to the truth what you say. You obviously don't know the mechanisms by which the Agency legalizes medicines. This does not mean that here in Bulgaria with its own clinical or preclinical studies evaluates their effectiveness. She studies the paperwork, Dr. Ademov, and appreciates the truthfulness of the other is impossible. If every Drug Agency in the world were subjecting the same mechanism to one more control, then the entry of one molecule would be delayed by 20 years for one country. Don't fool people, you can't fool me because I've worked on this committee for 10 years, but people have to understand it! It's just, I'm sorry to say, I didn't expect it from you, you said in the end very nicely: here it's not about geopolitics. It's not about sneezes, it's about the interest of the nation. At the moment, we are once again deviating from its interest, explaining things that will justify us not to make this decision. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u221	Mr. Chorbanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. In fact, it was very accurately said by Dr. Ademov: The capacity of the Agency is the determining factor. Our Drug Executive Agency and its entire management dare not drink coffee unless approved by EMA. In fact, this is the crucial moment for us to have the confidence to take responsibility. If our Medicines Agency can't take responsibility for registering anything, why do we need a National Agency? We can only comply with what is permitted by the EMA and apply it in the country and not have any native production of anything. Once every batch of Bulgarian vaccine was tested efficiently in this same agency.. real testing with real animal experiments for its effectiveness. Everything is currently being done on documents at the Agency, but so are the other European agencies. Neither the Hungarian nor the German agency will do real experiments, but they simply have the capacity, the people and probably the experts to take on this responsibility. It is only about the responsibility of the administrative authorities, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u223	Mr. Zafirov had a request for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u224	Dear Mr. Ademov, you very accurately said that there is no policy in our proposal. Politics was right there against me, and if I were Mr. Mitov, I'd be ashamed of what I said. Moreover, this is not even about politics, but about an elementary political stubbornness of this same stubbornness, which was once again applied in this room a few years ago, when we spoke on the next point of the Air Polish, and was about to land the Bulgarian fighter aircraft. If it hadn't been applied then, there wouldn't have been a next point. [[Noise and lines.]] That is what this is about, and today it is very important to say that it is about human lives. Dear colleagues, a city such as Nova Zagora has already been erased from the map of Bulgaria - 17 thousand people have died so far, and Mr. Mitov is talking about the Kremlin! That's what this is about. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u225	Here you are, Dr. Ademov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u226	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, fellow Members! Thank you for the lines, but the only thing I've said is that the centralised procedure is mandatory for certain products. First of all, products with the new active substance and products for the prevention and treatment of viral diseases. This is written in the Bulgarian Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. I didn't invent that text. If you were seriously concerned about this project becoming a draft decision of the National Assembly, you would necessarily propose amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. In this case, the only allowed event, to call it, is the centralized procedure. The other procedure is the responsibility of the National Agency. You attended the meeting of the Committee on Health and there the Executive Director of the Drug Agency said that the Medicines Agency in Bulgaria does not have the capacity to deal with this problem. Is that right? All the colleagues who were there said that. Actually, I was quoting the Executive Director of the Agency, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u227	Next statement, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u228	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 84, para. The second sentence of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly shall make the following proposal for editorial amendments due to the technical error made in the text of the applicant after the name of the decision in the text on the basis of its adoption after the word.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This proposal was also made by me during the discussion of the draft decision in the Committee on Health, but it was not adopted by the Commission, which is why I am doing it again in plenary. The other proposals I made there would have made this discussion unnecessary, as we could have had one harmonious solution yet in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u229	Where do you read, Mr. Simidchiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u230	In the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u231	Decision on the award of the Council of Ministers providing access to Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u232	Yes, it is an obvious technical error. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues on the left are proud of their consistency in introducing the same legislative initiatives. However, they are also consistent in lobbying, because this is really not about geopolitics, this is about lobbying in a clean sample. When this discussion took place in the previous National Assembly, we informed you that there were two other Russian vaccines... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u234	Wait a minute, Dr. Daritkova. Please calm down, Mr. Zafirov! It is important to hear all arguments and there is no need to enter such verbal shootings. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u235	In addition, this discussion is probably deja vu for part of those present in this Chamber because it was held on 5 March this year and the same arguments were presented to BSP colleagues. We helped them to get rid of the harsh lobbying for the "Sputnik V" against the background of two more available Russian vaccines and to support a draft decision which is within the framework of the regulations of Bulgaria and the European Union and which enables the Council of Ministers to negotiate for all vaccines, including Chinese, and all vaccines, which have been invented and approved at this stage, but only after obtaining authorisation for use by the European Medicines Agency. Because, not on the basis of Bulgarian legislation, but on the basis of European Union Regulation, we have no right to use products in Bulgaria that have not been authorised under a centralised procedure. The Bulgarian Medicines Agency has not created the capacity for such approval.. not because it does not want, but because it respects the regulations and regulations in force. This legal framework has been repeatedly reminded of colleagues on the left, and I think that they are not sincere in their wishes to have quick access to I am convinced that it is a demonstration, because there is no way you can fail to comply with the anti-epidemic measures in the Chamber of Members on the left and with medical education are systematically standing without masks. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] At the same time, to show false concern for people's lives and health. First of all, we need to be concerned about everyone here who may find themselves with health problems that may be infected with such non-compliance because we have spent long enough hours in the Chamber. We also swore to uphold the Constitution and the laws of the country. Therefore, colleagues, let us be honest with the voters and say who really wants to expand the vaccination program so that Bulgarian citizens have access to more vaccines, which, however, are certainly safety, efficiency and quality. Here again, the question is responsibility. We cannot involve the Council of Ministers, whether he and the caretaker government, to violate the legislation in force in Bulgaria and in the European Union. This is not going to happen because the responsibility here must be borne by the Minister of Health, even by the doctors who will then administer this vaccine, because when there is no authorisation for use, the responsibility is of all those involved in the introduction, approval and administration of the vaccine in the Republic of Bulgaria. Believe me, I think that it is really important to articulate because responsibility has proved a very imaginary concept of this National Assembly. No one wanted to take responsibility to govern the state, no one wanted to take responsibility to manage the CEC, and responsibility is leading in the exercise of the medical profession leading in the care of the lives and health of the people, and it should be a leader for all MPs. Let me remind you, although it has already been noted by the negotiators that there is already one draft decision, it is in force, and there is no need for the National Assembly to contribute even more to its negative normative rating by adopting another draft decision with similar content. In addition, BSP colleagues have once again shown such negligence to the legislative process that they have even submitted the draft decision with the same spelling and grammatical errors! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] They failed to write that it was about the Republic of Bulgaria, they wrote: the Council of Ministers without articulating which Republic this Council of Ministers is. My fellow Members, I really believe that such an attitude does not suit a party with such a long history. However, if supporters of this illegal draft decision are accidentally found, I suggest that something be recorded to meet the established normative standards in the 45th National Assembly. Let's at least write at the end:... if [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] because to some extent this will discharge the Minister of Health and the Council of Ministers, who will probably be appointed by the President next week. Dear colleagues, the issue of vaccine prophylaxis is extremely important and I believe that the message that needs to come out of this House is not who uses the epidemic and pandemic for political purposes, namely that only after achieving a significant immunization range, of serious vaccine coverage will we be able to deal with the pandemic and return to our previous way of life. Let the Bulgarian citizens hear this! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u236	There is a statement by Dr. Simidchiev who already consumes his right to speak. [[DB lines.]] Okay, wait, relax. A moment ago, he spoke and dealt with editorial amendments. He consumes his speech, so if you want, make up with lines, but don't make me give him three words. There are lines from Mr. Mihailov and Mr. Gutsanov. Find out who will consume the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Daritkova, since you put the emphasis in your speech on responsibility several times, I would like to ask you here and to articulate, as you use this expression in front of the whole room: who is responsible to Bulgaria for being last in number of vaccinated and at the forefront of mortality? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Who? Your political power! Thank you, Madam President. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Who was burning masks? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u238	Mr. Simidchiev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u239	Two things. Firstly, I got the impression from the speeches that what we have read in the Commission different people perceive it differently. What I can say on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria is that what we stood for there is to abide by the laws of all laws and not try to do geopolitics, but to make sure that Bulgarian citizens have access to effective and safe vaccines. This can happen if our Agency can do such a review.. something that is not possible, which is why the only option is, as Germany and France do not do national procedures, but wait for the procedure of the European Agency to end, because unlike the previous submitted project, when the European Agency has not dealt with this issue, this vaccine is already in procedure, that is, it remains only to obtain the results and everything will end. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u240	Mr. Gutsanov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u241	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm surprised, Mrs. Daritkova, how did you speak like that from the stands?! Bulgaria, which is the first in the mortality rate of more than 4.3%, which is the last in vaccination and there is any chance to get out of this situation in which you put us, thus commenting on the problem?! Next, when you talk about some lobbying: and to whom was AstraZeneka connected? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Does one of your MEPs or rather her mother Zoya Paunova have anything to do with it? Therefore, I ask you very much, let us, before the death of so many Bulgarian citizens because of your incompetence, not to use political statements, but to go forward and try to do something good for the Bulgarians. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u242	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yeah, that parliament was pre-election, post-election. Either way, we are clearly in a campaign here, the words are used for the purpose of guilt or to seek dividends. But that's not the point of today's discussion. The point of today's discussion is, after all, in this Parliament to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country. There is an adopted draft decision which obliges the Bulgarian government to negotiate for all vaccines that have been authorised under a centralised procedure by the European Medicines Agency. In other words, if there is an opportunity for additional vaccines to be provided to the Bulgarian citizens, they will be provided with no regulatory deficit in this regard. And in this sense, this draft decision is pointless. On the other hand, it's very nice to talk about responsibility. We have always shown that we can take responsibility. We are responsible and it is carried through resignations and through election appearances. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] So far, Bulgarian citizens have shown that they trust the Political Party GERB because once again we are the most numerous in this Parliament and I hope we will be even more in the next. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And I don't know how you're responsible, but even one resignation you couldn't properly submit as a sign of responsibility. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB-SDS.)]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, there will be enough vaccines in Bulgaria to ensure the needs of Bulgarian citizens. It is not right for false news to be discussed in the National Assembly, because this does not in any way affect its positive rating. I believe that all of us here will come up with a message to support vaccine prophylaxis as the only possible outcome of the crisis with the CIVID-19 pandemic. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u244	Mrs. Daritkova, I'm going to allow myself to say something about the next people to take the floor. You obviously deviate from the issue discussed without talking about either vaccines or an old solution. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] Obviously, the old differs from the new decision, at least by one essential element, that the old decision required an explicit decision of the European Medicines Agency, and the new decision does not have one. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Since we are discussing something that is extremely exciting to Bulgarian citizens and which is a high policy...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u245	What is this procedure?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u246	...but I don't think it's quite electional, so I'm asking the next speakers to really stick to the point. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u247	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u248	You are welcome to object to my comments and to proceed with the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u249	Mrs. Chairman! I object to your failure to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Then, when the speaker is speaking on the subject, he makes something of a remark to me, after I have finished with the duplicate, it is appropriate to come down to this platform and provide the holding of the meeting of another Vice-President or Chairman of the National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] I know it was too short the time of this Parliament, but you have serious parliamentary experience. The rules haven't changed significantly since time. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] when you were in this National Assembly. Please, let's follow the rules, because you saw what happened once a violation was committed. Otherwise, if I have to explain the difference between the two draft decisions, it is in compliance with the European regulations and the Bulgarian legislation. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u250	Mrs. Daritkova, I am exercising my rights under art. 57 of the Rules, I find it uncomfortable to explain it to you, where I should explain to you that you are committing a violation and interrupting. I don't want to interrupt anyone, we are discussing a serious issue and I want all the arguments to be heard, but these arguments are not similar to Stambolov, but are somehow the essence of the decision that we are going to adopt. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Jevdet Chakarov. The following are Yavor Bojankov and Antoaneta Tsoneva according to the order of the recordings. And Mr. Peykov and Mr. Gajev. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the position we have expressed, I will continue, naturally, in the same spirit and I will say that the DPS at this stage will refrain from supporting the proposed draft solution, because the Russian vaccine still does not have the approval of the European Medicines Agency. At first glance, what I am about to say could be seen as a repetition, but I would like to add that in our parliamentary group and the leadership of our political power we have discussed this case very seriously because it is very sensitive against the backdrop of high morbidity. By sharing what the high tribune has said about the high mortality in our country, of course, it is combined with other factors, but we need to be as precise as possible. In view of the safety of all of us as citizens, approval by the European Medicines Agency is indeed needed. After the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Health, as already indicated by the Ministry and the Executive Agency for Medicines, such responsibility cannot be assumed......................................................................... Perhaps the importers have an idea to sign up for the draft decision to add that responsibility is assumed by parliament, not by name, but by parliament, because there must be a subjectivity of responsibility for what we will take as a decision. That's one side of the case. And the other one, in view of our legislation, was very detailed here, I will not repeat the relevant provisions. Absolutely aware, if we make such a decision, Parliament will be in the hypothesis of violating the Law, since there is no approval by the European Medicines Agency. And here I would like to say that our approach to analysis and the discussion that we have had is principled, regardless of which side whose vaccine it is. Here, we understand that these days a procedure has also been initiated with regard to the Chinese vaccine "Sinovak". It also needs to be approved by the European Medicines Agency and any other vaccines that could be approved by the European Medicines Agency are potentials that could be used by us for accelerated vaccination, for an accelerated temporectomy, because we have to go this way, we have to go this way. And in this regard, perhaps the best example of the highest degree of vaccination is the country of Israel, where we see that the is reported in recent days that there is no mortality at all. There are days when there are no coronavirus deaths. We have to do this. In addition, the colleagues pointed out, but it is right to say at this stage correctly that 273 780 of the vaccine was introduced in the last days. On the other hand, in view of the reports that appeared with regard to the vaccine of But these days, there is a trend again that many people continue to be vaccinated with this vaccine. In a word, there are plenty of vaccines at this stage. But why wouldn't there be any more vaccines? So we are not opposed to accepting and agreeing additional quantities by "Sputnik V". There is an interest in certain people who want to be vaccinated with it, as well as the Chinese vaccine. All necessary conditions must be created for this process of accelerated vaccination, even after the current format of the Forty-fiveth National Assembly, on the part of the caretaker government, to be purchased such vaccines. Yes, first of all, there is a choice and, second of all, there must be an accelerated vaccination and we must fight this pandemic of coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u252	I don't see any lines. Next for speech "Javor Bozhankov."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u253	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, this debate reminds a little of the debate on the increase in pensions. Everyone's willing, but there's gotta be a reason. While there are procedural matches in this Chamber, constitutional arguments are being applied, even to people who were ready to destroy the Constitution, only to remain in power, we have not forgotten it, yet the Bulgarian citizens will remain last in Europe according to this indicator, unfortunately. And the reason we're having this debate is because of your severe failure in terms of vaccination policy. No one has forgotten the green corridors that blew up the order, priorities and priority groups. Then the green corridors remained free of vaccines. Then the vaccines came, but the order remained in total chaos. This led, naturally, to the highest mortality rates.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u254	Mr. Bojankov, stick to the creature, it will be a quieter room and a higher hearing capacity.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u255	I am going this way, Madam President, because the debate is essentially in this direction, and we cannot fail to comment on that either. If there is good news in this debate, it is that Mr. Mitov did not become Prime Minister because he would have ruined Bulgaria's relations with the other countries. The interference of geopolitics in this case is unacceptable, absolutely unacceptable. And here to compete who is convinced European... I am a certain European. But ruining relations with Russia for no reason is unacceptable! [[Arrival in GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u256	Mr. Bojankov, please stick to the creature.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u257	Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u258	We are discussing a decision to award the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u259	...now I'll take two words from you. Since you have so far admitted dozens of speeches on this subject, I would like to clear them in this statement. If they didn't exist, I wouldn't be making the appropriate statement either. Absolutely untenable is the argument in the direction of geopolitics. We see that relations with Russia are ruined. But they are both with Macedonia, with the US and with Europe, who make dozens of declarations regarding corruption in Bulgaria. This type of work has led us to the lowest point of confidence towards our external partners in every respect Bulgaria has a ruined reputation in Europe, in the United States with regard to Russia, if you will, Macedonia, because you are using retail and for thin political, small-scale miscreants the national interests of the state. And this, in my opinion, colleagues, will be revised in subsequent governments, as the vaccination process will be revised and all errors made will come out. They cannot be hidden behind procedural facts or other justifications. We all remember how many people lost their lives. These are human tragedies. And you should be an idea quieter, an idea at the moment more careful on this subject, after it has been proven and statistics show it that your policy so far is a complete failure. [[noise and lines]] And we're trying to make up for your gaps a little bit today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u260	The line is Mr. Ademov and Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u261	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov, you are a member of the former, if I am not mistaken, in the current Parliament of the Legal Commission. You and your colleagues from your parliamentary group are constantly talking about the rule of law. Tell me when you are sincere: when you are talking about the rule of law or when, in both cases, in the case of this decision and in the case of pensions, you do not respect either the European or the Bulgarian legislation? [[Applause from GERB-SDS and shouts: "Bravo!" by the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u262	Mr. Georgiev. Mrs. Tsoneva, you're up. Well, of course, but Mr. Georgiev is ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u263	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't intend to get involved in this topic because everyone should talk about what they understand, but because Mr. Bozhankov led the way. Dear Mr. Bojankov, yes, this is not just about geopolitics, it is about lobbying, referred to geopolitics. But even today, if we look at it, you have made many suggestions that Bulgaria has a compromised foreign policy position that we do not enjoy the trust of our partners. Only today NATO and NATO allies voiced support for the actions of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian government to protect state sovereignty and prevent foreign countries from interfering in our actions here in Bulgaria. [[noise and lines]] If for you compromising the Bulgarian image in the eyes of the transatlantic partners is expressed by concluding a strategic partnership agreement from the beginning of last year, so be it! If a compromised foreign policy image is that the European Commission has brought down surveillance for Bulgaria on the topic of organized crime and eliminates the co-operation and verification report in this part, let it be so! But please, many times your political power and its representatives have made sure that Bulgaria is indeed compromised on the foreign policy scene. The image of Bulgaria is not good, the policy that is being conducted in Bulgaria, to be put in the light of a darkness, the actions that are due to numerous attempts that you have made to torpedo precisely our positions on the protection of our sovereign sovereignty and of someone interfering in it and telling us what to do, but this was not GERB's position and policy, nor that or any other government led by the current prime minister. I beg you very much when you come up here and when you talk about foreign policy...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u264	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u265	...to keep in mind that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u266	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u267	...it's not for domestic political consumption. It echoes out and out...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u268	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u269	...and this is what gives Bulgaria a bad foreign policy image. It's nothing else. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u270	Time! Here you are, Lord Bozhankov. I hope you'll encourage me to support your decision, not to make me nervous so I can vote back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u271	Madam President, it is difficult for me to respond to Mr. Georgiev's reply procedure. Rather, I need a procedure in the manner of conducting and ask them to bring the thermometer from the North entrance to measure the temperature of the colleague. But, basically, I respond to the esteemed Mr. Ademov, who made a line to the point. In fact, in both cases we are talking about absolute synchronization with the Law, there is nothing illegal about pensions and about the current decision, Mr. Ademov. There is also something else here that is absolutely misunderstanding of the debate - geopolitics and medicine. If the medicine had been taken, it would have been taken. This is about people's lives, this is about nothing else.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u272	Mrs. Tsoneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u273	Madam President, honourable Members! In addition to what Dr. Simidchiev said. Yes, it is a democratic Bulgaria for compliance with the laws. And yes, Democratic Bulgaria will not support the proposed draft decision. And something in addition. Its latest data shows that 2% of the population of Russia is against vaccines in general, but 62% of the Russian population would not have put on Sputnik. That's the sociological data. Although Russia has full control over the production and distribution of Sputnik, it has currently inoculated 5.28 people per 100. Putin's own vaccination is a mystery. It was vaccinated March 2021, but there is no official information about this being with the Sputnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u274	There are no lines. Here you go, Mr. Peykov and Mr. Gajev, we're going to be super short, because we're going to be Artisa Air Polishing. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Because we're talking about human lives. I was vaccinated on February 25th... [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, you don't have to tell me how I got inoculated. I waited exactly 10 minutes on a green hallway and I didn't even pay my car ticket. There were vaccines. The next day they closed the green corridors because there were no vaccines. A few dozen parents of my friends died around me, not because they did not want to be vaccinated, but because our Ministry of the Ministry of GERB, did not take care, did not adequately manage this process. [[noise and lines]] [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In other words, it was about managing the process, not a lack of vaccines. I'll just remind you that when the vaccines were ordered, our government didn't order half of those that could be ordered and then complained that the distribution, you see, was bad. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, applauding me, why am I saying this? Because your main argument for Sputnik V is that there are not enough vaccines. Well, no, there's plenty of vaccines! It's not about not having vaccines. The problem with Sputnik Vs is completely different. The problem with the European Medicines Agency is that Russia has not provided information to the European Medicines Agency for a long time and now there is no data. The European Medicines Agency is obviously seeking to issue the relevant act allowing this vaccine for the whole of Europe. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, what you are doing is a political act, it is not related to the health of the Bulgarians, simply because, if we wait a while, the European Commission will anyway resolve or will not resolve on the basis of specific facts relating to the vaccine. And, as Mr. Bojankov said, it doesn't matter if it's Swedish, whether it's Norwegian, whether it's Chinese, whether it's Russian, the important thing is that it's approved in the proper order. See which countries have ordered it - Asia, Africa, Latin America, several South Slavic countries that have strong geopolitical ties, Hungary, we know how Hungary is currently managed, and Slovakia. I want to say something about Slovakia. In Slovakia, the prime minister circumvented the government's decisions and became a huge scandal. The drug agency tried, she tried to analyze Russian vaccines. And, as you can read in the media, they found two things. First, that this vaccine, if it is the Sputnik V., which they sent to them, is not exactly the same as the one they sent to other countries, and secondly, the Sputnik V., produced in one plant and another plant, is basically different. In other words, there is a serious problem right now with this vaccine. So let's face it, for you this is an important political act, but it is not about people's health. I ask you to wait for the decision of the European Medicines Agency, it will happen soon. Surely within the next parliament, this issue will be resolved, will be resolved in a fair manner, a way that is beneficial to the Bulgarian population, and a way that is, of course, legal in the light of European and Bulgarian laws. Thank you, hearty. [[Applause from DB. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u276	I hope it won't follow a personal explanation and a series of personal explanations? Here you go, Mr. Simov. I think we should end this so we can vote. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u277	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Peykov! With that statement, you're just getting me rid of a schizophrenia. Just beginning to think of something good about the Democratic Bulgaria, this party has just begun to seem to me, so I say: something is going on with them, the topic comes on the Russian side and suddenly completely freaked out on this topic, without absolutely no logical reasoning, and most importantly, reasoning, uncorruptible to absolutely no facts! Let's not talk about anything else. Have I stayed sideways given Russia data on this or not, although the whole Lancet magazine, one of the most authentic magazines, gave an incredible assessment of this vaccine. It's about another person belonging to the liberal space to tell us that Asia, South America these are some minor countries, sorry, I didn't expect it from you! Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u278	Thanks for pulling my card, that was a nice gesture. [[Heckling]] No, I'm not saying that the countries of Asia are insignificant, I just said... With AstraZeneka, I was inoculated, the Oxford vaccine, because it was the only vaccine available, yes. Now to continue, as viewers, they still do not hear the lines from the hall, if you want to say something, the tribune you have in the form of a replica, a duplicate or a statement. No, these countries are not insignificant, but I confirm that the issue is entirely geopolitical. If Russia has vaccinated 5 percent of its population and distributes the vaccine in 60 other countries and pipes through all possible channels how effective it is, however, it refuses to provide adequate data to the European Medicines Agency, I think it is very logical, everything I say at all, the link is quite clearly traceable. Isn't that right? Do I have to explain anything more? Why is it necessary, given that there are such important topics to consider, we drew the point of Dr. Simidchiev for the Bill of Health, which was really related to the health of the Bulgarians? [[Applause from DB.]] He wanted to set clear quotas that make Lockdowns or get the hell out of Lockdowns! My daughter went to school this year. All the restaurants are open! You're telling me that Russian vaccine is the most important thing. Well, that's not the point, gentlemen. Let's wait. [[Noise, lines and applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u279	Last statement, Mr. Gajev. Anyone who votes, please enter the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u280	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We really had this argument about... this similar draft decision two months ago and we continue to talk with the same flame as in an election National Assembly, it is logical to look at election projects for decisions, because for me it is. As for the vaccine itself, whether it's a good one or not, I hope it's a good one. I don't want to comment on whether it's bad, because the more people get vaccinated, the better. And I am convinced that there are many Bulgarian citizens - hundreds, if not thousands, who only for being a Russian vaccine will make them vaccinated. I suppose much of the left side of the room, which has not been vaccinated so far, will set a personal example in this regard. As for a few things that were said. Currently, only Hungary uses this vaccine in the European Union and has been delivered to date about 1 million. 300,000 doses that definitely don't cover 9 million people, let alone half. While neighbouring countries, such as Serbia and even the Republic of Northern Macedonia, passed mainly into Chinese vaccines, but apparently for importers Chinese vaccines are clearly not quality enough. The example of Slovakia has been mentioned several times and it is quite lobbying in this topic not only because of the political crisis it led to, but also because of the way it was concluded and the verification of the vaccine itself took place. Under the Treaty concluded with Slovakia, by the way, as well as Brazil, their national laboratories examined the supplies and lots received. Laboratorys at the Slovak Academy of Sciences found that there were a lot of differences between the lot they received and the one that was written in the prestigious magazine. That's something the labs said: "There's been a scandal. Even the Russians wanted to withdraw the shipment. ♪ Apparently there's a problem with the batch, but when you have a problem with lots and vaccines, I think it's a big problem. More interesting thing is that the Slovaks published their contract a contract with the Russian exporting company where all the conditions under which they were received are described. The interesting thing is the clause that you pay whether you use it or not, that is, whether the vaccine is good, bad, satisfying the requirements or not, the country pays it. How much he's paying her, I'll tell you a little later. Another thing that is interesting in the contract in question is t. 6.5, from it, which, if I may translate it for clarity: The seller is in no case responsible for the efficiency of the product. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't know, I'm asking in the other contracts, is the seller not responsible? If there's a good one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u281	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u282	Let's go back to the price. The price of both or, in other words, of the full vaccination of the vaccine of the VSputnik which is a vector vaccine is $19,90. [[Heckling]] This is what the Treaty says between the Ministry of Health of the Slovak Republic and the company producing $19.90, for that amount they bought. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u283	We are the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u284	Are they likely to sell it at the same price or do you think the offer comes from you and give you a special promotion? Come on. Compare them with the other two vector vaccines that have already been approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) by AstraZeneca, the so-called Oxford vaccine, the two doses cost $4.30, or a difference of 4.5 times, i.e. the Russian vaccine 4.5 times is more expensive than AstraZeneca. And the one-time dose that was recently approved is worth 10 dollars, or three times cheaper than the Russian vaccine. I mean, considering she's in the same dose twice, I apologize. Hence, the point is that it is a matter of some people who have noted it, and money, and a lot of money. Because in addition to the ordering of vaccines, there is also a collection of customs duties that are done under European legislation and not by national law, which must be released from customs, respectively, more costs, and generally bills that concern a lot of money to a private company, what are they called? Lobby girls or maybe I'm wrong. I hope I'm wrong. After all, let us wait for the Russian side to submit its documents to the European Medicines Agency, because I will quote to you here the European Health Commissioner, Mrs Stella Kyriakidis, who, on 14 April A current review has been initiated at the request of the company Erfarm. Even the Russians here ask why, since it is such a good product that we all need in Europe, why so many months has not been given for verification by the European Medicines Agency. Those countries that have used it, in the case of Hungary and Slovakia, especially in Slovakia, show that they do not meet the lots they have ordered, which is a problem in any trade relationship. The question of responsibility was raised. Here the main question remains. For example, if we adopt this decision tomorrow, tomorrow the government has signed a contract with the Russian side, which, by the way, said that before the end of June, it cannot deliver doses to Europe. This is a quote from the director of the Russian company who deals with their exports to other crows. They'll be able to deliver after June, but before June, they can't. Who will be responsible if the same thing happens to us in Slovakia? It turns out there are defective shipments and shipments that don't match what we want and we've ordered. Who will be responsible for this? Because I don't think it's gonna be us. So I see no point in approving such a solution, given that it is obvious and clear how it will not lead to anything good, however much we wish to solve the problem of vaccination, and there are vaccines at the moment. Rather, we should call on all the people to be vaccinated. By the way, I can think of a question that was raised by colleague Petar Vitanov from the European Parliament, a leader of the BSP group in the European Parliament, and he is related to European vaccination passports and these vaccination passports, which will enter into force in June, concern only vaccines approved by the EMA. So how will people who are vaccinated with an unapproved vaccine be able to travel to Europe? At least answer me this question. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" Won't travel. "]] Oh, they're not traveling. They'll be at home. Bravo! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u285	There's a line behind you. I don't know your name. You want the way you conduct yourself. I can explain the way you conduct yourself. [[Reply and partial applause.]] You speak about everything but the decision that requires action to secure the vaccine and the access of the Bulgarian citizens to it. So far, the conclusion of contracts by the state, all sorts of other things, vaccination passports, has nothing to do with the decision, but which is said, why not look at all aspects? [[Heckling]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u286	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gazhev, we are currently looking at a bill to instruct the government to initiate a procedure for approval of the Russian vaccine and, accordingly, purchase.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u287	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u288	My question to you is, and please explain to your colleagues at this time and by the end of May how many vaccines will we have available in Bulgaria, because the main thesis is precisely this, the main point is this: will there be a possibility for green corridors in Bulgaria and accordingly to implement the vaccination plan? Because my concern is that by the end of May and by the end of June we will have so many vaccines that there will be no willing ones to put them on. Give me this information, how many vaccines will there be by the end of May? How many vaccines do we have right now? How many vaccines will we have by the end of July? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u289	You have a line. He asked before you, Mr. Chenchev, be a gentleman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u290	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gazhev, I thought I'd do a procedure in the manner of conduct, since the Chairman obviously decided he wouldn't give it to me, so I'm going to give you a line. We talk today for several hours in this room about vaccines, about people's health, about what measures we should take during a pandemic. However, what you did not say is that the pandemic requires several things. It requires order, discipline, respect, responsibility and care for health for our health and for the health of the people around us, health care everywhere in everyday life, at work, at school, wherever we are in the store. Mr. Gazhev, pay attention to how many people, how many MPs in this room are currently without masks?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u291	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u292	How many people in this room didn't put their masks on properly? I mean, the mask we know should cover her nose. A colleague said his son had been to school for a week this year. Dear colleagues, the responsibility of each of us depends on how long children will not be in classrooms. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u293	I can see there's one big run out of arguments. Won't anyone make an offer to end the discussion? [[Heckling]] Here you are, Mrs. Nino. Mr. Chenchev wanted to tell me about the TV station. Usually your lines are connected to some TV. [[Noise and lines.]] They put on their masks, only Mr. Hadjigenov didn't put it on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u294	Madam President, I'm glad you're following my lines and my parliamentary activities...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u295	They're classics, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u296	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, everyone here in this Chamber, including Mr. Gajev, to whom I speak, has sworn to protect the interests of the people. Mr. Gazhev, in your speech you have admitted yourself that you are sure how hundreds of thousands of people want to be vaccinated with Sputnik V. Give them this opportunity. This is the job of the National Assembly to protect the interests of the people I also know many people who want to travel abroad if we make this decision to be able to be vaccinated. Everyone in this room knows that there are also so-called vaccination tourism in the territory of the European Union, there are entire planes flying to Moscow so that citizens of the European Union can be vaccinated and they do so. Mr. Gazhev, since you obviously don't want to protect people's interests, just give them a chance to choose. It's a citizen's right to choose. And that's what we want to give them, but you're the one who's talking about contracts, given that you've paid 3 billion for planes that aren't there. [[speaking indistinctly]] , given that other NATO countries are paying them off at other prices, it is simply not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u297	Mr. Chenchev, to the creature.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u298	Give people the right to choose what to inoculate. There was no TV this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u299	There wasn't. This time it was just for airplanes. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u300	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen replicating! In line with the lines. Mr. Boychev, as far as I know, there will be six million vaccines in Bulgaria by the end of June. So people will be able to choose which ones to use. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mrs. Damyanova, I fully agree with you, personal responsibility is the leading one for every single person. Mr. Chenchev, on the contrary from my oath to the people, I say this because when you order to vaccinate yourself with this Russian vaccine, as I am sure you will, I want it guaranteed that it will contain a vaccine against a horse and not some water from the Volga. Thus to protect your health and those who are vaccinated with it, to know what they are vaccinated with and to know that it will be for their health, and not just something that has come without verification. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u301	Really recent requests are: Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, Mrs. Rositsa Kirova, and Georgi Svilenski wants to conduct the way. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Because she doesn't know the difference between the genre and she'll say the same thing she said.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u302	Madam President, in the manner of conduct. I've really spoken a few times about wearing masks because first I don't know exactly what populism we've been shoving on each other here. I see you're patriots, but on one end of the rallies were everyone without masks. Some of you obviously had egg immunity, and the other part also supported without masks. You've infected a lot of people, and why am I telling you this? There are people... [[Replys: "Eee! "]] I'm not kidding. My wife runs two floors of Kovid, and you infected a bunch of people irresponsiblely, and now you're talking about vaccines. [[Replyes: No, no, no.]] What do you mean, I'm asking my colleague here, he's showing off his mask, man. I'm not gonna get sick because of you. Is this a show here? You've been sitting there all day breathing sick people. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u303	Mr. Rashidov, just a moment. Please, Mr. Hadjigenov, put on a mask of respect for Vejdi Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u304	Where to, and legally you owe me, I got the disease. There are people with accompanying diseases. Aren't you ashamed? [[Noise, lines, applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u305	Here you are, sir.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u306	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u307	Okay, how many times are you gonna do it the way you're doing it? You're gonna make me vote against the decision, people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u308	It's not connected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u309	Excuse me, everyone's wearing masks except one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u310	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I allow myself to address two or three proposals from fellow MPs from GERB who are constantly following who is wearing a mask and who is without a mask in this Chamber. Dear colleagues, if the first thing is to wear masks, the second thing is to keep our distance. You're all over each other and you're talking about wearing masks. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Dear colleagues, in this room we have been sitting for six hours, do you think that when you put on these masks and take them off and upload them when someone comes out of the stands, there are no viruses in this room and there is nothing?! [[Shouts, lines from GERB-SDS.]] Do you know this thing? So if someone wants to start working at RZI, Monday I see there are plenty of colleagues. And remind me! Mr. Rashidov, because you are accusing that someone on the left and someone on the right has infected people, I, without accusing, will say that MPs from GERB came to quarantined work to keep Borisov's quorum and not resign. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You know that too! In the presence of the Health Minister, they came quarantined!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u311	Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u312	And he knows them very well. And he has not yet answered the written question: who are the members of parliament under quarantine in plenary? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u313	Colleagues! Colleagues! I suggest to you that at the last two points we are to complete the work of this National Assembly a little with honor. [[Noise and lines.]] There's no need! Ms. Ninova will make a procedure to end the discussions. [[Shouts from GERB-SDS.]] We'll move on to the vote. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova. [[Heckling]] She wants me to accept her decision. I guess he'll make us feel better.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u314	Mrs. Doncheva, so very attractive, but also professional waters, but you did not know me.................I have no intention of interrupting the speeches, but on the contrary, I wish to do so. And I hope I have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u315	You've got, you've got no procedure, it's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u316	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very last day, and we are very excited to ask you for some peace and mind to resolve this issue on the last day of Parliament's work. For the second time today, I have to say that we are consistent, principled and stable in our policies, whether we are after elections, before elections or in the middle of a parliamentary season. We submit this proposal once again for the following reasons. First, there are Bulgarian citizens who want to be vaccinated with such a vaccine, and we are obliged to provide them with this opportunity. [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, the vaccine is registered in 64 countries and access to it has 3 billion people in the world. Thirdly, there was a lot of talk here about geopolitics, lobbying charges, talking about the Kremlin and Europe. I would like to ask you, especially those Members who have arguments against: are you still European-oriented? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, I'm sure. Are you still members of the EPP? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Yeah, you didn't quit, did you? I can see that your leaders, who are also leaders of Europe, are of a different opinion from you and are in good health. Here's what Europe looks like on this issue: the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports that it is currently actively negotiating with Moscow to buy Russian vaccines. The time is 31 March 2021. The delivery of 300,000 is discussed. doses of "Sputnik V" in April and another 500 thousand in May and another 200 thousand in June. [[Heckling]] Austria! The Administration of Sebastian Kurtz reports that the Austrian Chancellor has had a conversation with President Putin and the conversation is about the delivery of a vaccine, but also more about the production of the territory of Austria. Ms. Merkel and Mr. Macron, a video conference between German Chancellor Merkel and French President Macron with Vladimir Putin, discussed the issue of Sputnik V Here are a few arguments and they are: the first argument of the health of the Bulgarian nation. Whatever you are saying from GERB, you have brought Bulgaria to the first in mortality and the last in vaccination. The delivery of the VSputnik is another way to overcome these last places not only because of the health of the people, but because of the future of the economy. Because the countries that manage to inoculate more of their citizens will release the measures, develop their economy and we will still stay in line. The second argument let the medics argue what the quality of the vaccine is, but there is no way that 3 billion people in the world can use it, 64 countries in the world from all over the world, including Europe, register it and use it, and you can't say that it is something harmful! But most of all, honourable Members, we are addressing you today with the following appeal: let us not be on the topic of the health of the nation and the future of the development of Bulgaria, neither russophiles nor russophobes, let us be Bulgarians! Support our proposal because it is in the interests of Bulgaria and in the protection of the health of the Bulgarian people. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u317	There's lines. [[Noise and lines.]] There's lines! Mr. Peykov, Mr. Bikov, he hasn't spoken in a long time. Mr. Gazhev, you will step back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u318	Mrs. Ninova, let's not confuse russophilism and putinophile.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u319	Please put your card on! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u320	Let's not confuse Russophile and putinophile! [[Noise and lines.]] I challenge the entire BSP group tonight to sit down at the same table and call a Russian orchestra. I'll stand on one side and sing, and you all on the other side will sing as many songs as I know?! And have you read so many Russian books that I've published?! That's not what this is about! This isn't about Russophile or russophobicism. It's a process, a transparent process. We trust the European Medicines Agency. Tomorrow, will you take the consequences if, in five or six months, the European Medicines Agency decides that there is a problem with the Russian vaccine? There are 300,000 people in Bulgaria who want to fight amphetamines, do we have to provide them? [[(Loud noise, applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] Your arguments are frivolous! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u321	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I will vote against this decision. [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] And with very clear arguments. You are currently, and it is good to answer this question, you are proposing that a decision be taken which will render everyone who is going to negotiate vaccines liable. Because this Forty-Fiveth National Assembly is ending today, and when there is some problem after three or four months, if you will be financial, negotiating or health, do not give yourself God, all will say, "Well, the forty-fifth National Assembly, which is no longer there, bears responsibility. " A caretaker government is due to be appointed in a few days. Nothing prevents the Minister of Health from doing everything you say, but doing it on his own responsibility, under the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Service, to the responsibility of the President who appointed them. They can do it, there's no need for parliament to decide! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Let them do it! I can't take that responsibility! We can't take responsibility here if we're done today. Hey, that's irresponsible! Secondly, this is not geopolitics. No, it's geopolitics! And it's geopolitics! Because we're stuck on a blacklist of enemy countries that Russia has drawn up, and now, without them wanting to sell us a vaccine at all, and whatever it is, we say, "Let's go for a ride like they're knocking us on the door and wanting to give us a vaccine. What if they give us a vaccine that's suitable for countries that are on this blacklist? What if they give us a vaccine like that? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u322	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u323	And one last thing. Kurtz, Merkel, Macron may be able to guarantee that Russia will give them the vaccine it has promised them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u324	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u325	Can Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u326	C'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u327	...and the next prime minister who still doesn't know who he's gonna be, to guarantee that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u328	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u329	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u330	And Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u331	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, let me update your statement a little, as you are obviously handling data from March and now we are May. From three days ago, I will quote to you with the Chancellor of Austria: Austria will buy Sputnik only and only after the approval of the EMA. EMA approval is a mandatory prop to complete our deal with Russia. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Have a nice weekend!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u332	Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Ninova? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS for the removal of the MP Nikolai Hadjigenov for not wearing a mask and does not want to put on.]] It doesn't say in the Rules that someone should be removed from the Chamber for not wearing a mask. The RZI authorities are monitoring and can make an act of colleague Hadjigenov. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] To be fined as much as they want. He's an adult, I asked him. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u333	To the last coworker with the line. Colleague, the difference between these European leaders and your former and resigned leader, a retired prime minister, is that they have already started talks, waiting for permission, and the moment it comes out, the vaccines are at their border. And Bulgaria will bring it to a state in which it was a month or two ago, to pray for these same leaders to lend us temporary vaccines. This raises the big question of leadership not only in Europe, but also in Bulgaria. Dear Bulgarian citizens, what you have heard from our political opponents is reluctance and inability to be held accountable. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It is a good thing that you stated it directly from the stand: we do not want and can not be responsible for the health of the Bulgarian people! That is why you are here now and no longer ruling, because not only in the last 10 years, but you have also stated today that you do not want to be responsible. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] You said, "Are you ready to take responsibility?" [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] And that's why I'm saying it's a question of leadership. It's not just about running a country and taking responsibility. It is no coincidence that I quote the European leaders from your political family, because these are not just chairmen of parties, but statesmen who think about their peoples, and therefore are responsible, taking the risk and ready to help people in the health crisis. That's why we're here, that's why we made this proposal, and that's why we're different!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u334	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u335	In parallel, for months, no matter what situation we are in, we want this because it is good for Bulgaria. We are here with our faces and will vote for because we are ready to bear this responsibility for the health of the Bulgarian people and the future development of Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u336	There are no more speeches. [[Replys: there is!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u337	Declaration! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u338	Let's proceed to voting mode and then make the declaration. We are proceeding to a voting regime. [[Heckling]] There are no more speeches. [[Replyes: How can there not be?]] All right, come in for a procedure, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u339	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Due to the apparent exhaustion of the arguments for and against this item on the agenda, I am making a procedural proposal to put an end to the debate and to vote. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines. Replica from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u340	Why wouldn't he have the right? [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS and BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's a draft decision. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] He's making an offer to end the discussion. [[Reply: "The second reading only applies. "]] How many more speeches do you want? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Hristov, Mrs. Kirova wants the floor before you. If you two can work it out. Mr. Tsonev, a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u341	Madam President, honourable Members! We are about to have one vote and one more point, which represents a decision similar to ratification, which will obviously pass quickly, and this concludes the work of the 45th Parliament in all likelihood. In this regard, I would like to make a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the occasion is precisely the conclusion of the work of this 45th Parliament. The forty-fifth National Assembly will clearly remain in history not only with its shortest biography, but also with the most active form of populism. It is this populism that causes and causes the huge number of bills and other acts of the National Assembly, without regard to consequences, without consistency, without an assessment of the impact on the country's budget in such a complex crisis situation, including a political crisis. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will once again approach wisely and in principle, we will not, we have not imported, submitted no draft laws and defend the thesis that a parliament which does not broadcast a majority and a government cannot be responsible for significant changes in legislation, especially concerning budgetary commitments to Bulgarian citizens. We continue to argue that before the National Assembly and all politicians there are much more important issues to trace the way for solving the main crises related to the pandemic, the economy that has been blocked, the compromised state budget and so on. I have read to you quite deliberately the first part of the declaration that Mr Karadaye, the chairman of our parliamentary group, made here on Wednesday from this platform. We thought that we should then say that this National Assembly had actually exhausted its limit of responsibility and should not continue with the responsible bills. Of course, unfortunately for us, a lot has happened since this Wednesday on both the day and today, which have shown the rightness of this assessment, and I would like to comment on them on behalf of our parliamentary group. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is a party since the beginning of the transition, and in its genies it is one of the events that tracked the path of democracy, some events that led the Bulgarian Muslims to a peaceful protest to defend the right of faith, in the name of honor, of dignity, which every Bulgarian citizen has. And, believe me, I know these brothers and sisters well, you know them too, they did it on behalf of all of us, because not all of us dared to do it against totalitarian regime. But in the years of democracy these same people have shown extremely tolerant and peaceful. So tolerant that, creating the DPS party, all these years, we really wanted peace in Bulgaria to have a normal political process. We want it now. Notice: since 2017, we are calling for what today is a deficit - dialogue. The dialogue, as the chairman of our parliamentary group and the party Mr Karadayi said, in the same declaration that is missing and the finding that where the dialogue ends, parliamentary democracy ends. You are already convinced why parliamentary democracy in Bulgaria is hanging? Because there's been no dialogue for many years. There is no dialogue between the political entities, there is no dialogue between the institutions and the parliament has been converted into a rubber seal of the executive power. But what I would like to stress today because of the Bulgarian citizens who are watching us and because of this part of the Bulgarian citizens who are our voters of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is that the DPS is really a very tolerant party. As tolerant as her constituents are. We can tolerate communists, children and grandchildren of members of the CCP and the Politburo to teach us anticommunism. We can tolerate abusers over human rights to teach morals, teach us a peaceful transition, teach us any other moral values. We can bear to be called hypocrites "Those because of which in Bulgaria the pension system has been on deposits from the taxes of Bulgarian citizens since 1990, because in 1990 we did not find any lev in the pension funds, although our parents, grandfathers, grandmothers paid the tax social security. But there wasn't a penny in 1990! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We can tolerate the successors of this party as a team member for the Bulgarian pensioners. We can also tolerate this. We can tolerate the same people calling us hypocrites and all this we can endure only in the name of Bulgaria, in the name of all the citizens of Bulgaria, in the name of peace in Bulgaria, in the name of the fact that we are called here, as chosen people, to find the way that those who have sent us here to see their wishes realized. Because when 800,000 people vote for one party, 500,000 for another, 400,000 for another, it doesn't matter who stands in this party. It matters to those who delegate these rights. For this reason, we have called for dialogue and continue to call for dialogue. Of course, because of our constituents, I would say: that we have their patience is because we really want to see Bulgaria prospering because we do not want the real hypocrisy to make commitments that you cannot fulfill, to make commitments that someone else will probably fulfill, we do not want this real hypocrisy to become a norm in the Bulgarian Parliament and in the Bulgarian political life. I appeal to you, honourable Members, with gratitude on behalf of the parliamentary group for bringing back power to the Bulgarian Parliament, as the Constitution dictates, that we have brought back the debate here, albeit distorted, albeit sometimes ugly, albeit sometimes not as the Bulgarian voters would like to see, or with the language they would like to hear. What happened in these few weeks here is hope that things will become what they are, but they must only happen in the legal order. I turn to the leader of the BSP, we are not in the middle of procedural pursuits, democracy is functioning through procedures and through procedures. And who does not follow procedures means that he does not respect democracy, that it is not for democracy! No decision in the name of the people who are breaking the law, the Constitution and procedures can be justified! Long live Bulgaria! For the sake of Bulgarian citizens, I hope that the lessons from this Parliament will be read in the next! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u342	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u343	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. I listened very carefully to the debate. I'd call it pointless, but useful. Meaningless, because if we accept this decision, it will be in a collision with European and Bulgarian legislation. Useful because I understand that all parliamentary parties report that there is a problem with a horse, that this is really something to protect society from, even those who burned masks and who said that they wanted to block Bulgaria in order to be able to do things that should not be done. I listened with the greatest attention to the doctors in this room. By the way, when I am on the stand, I would like to thank all Bulgarian doctors, nurses and health workers for what they have been doing for more than a year for all Bulgarian citizens. I will listen to them in view of the fact that they are specialists, because otherwise I fear it will not come to that famous line of Hasek: The war was going well. At one time, however, the General Staff intervened and messed up everything. " - Let's leave the doctors who know what they are doing, let's not interfere too much, let's not go in with the buttons for topics that concern the lives of Bulgarian citizens. I will vote as the Bulgarian doctors in this Parliament have convinced me. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u344	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Kirova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u345	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. The way this debate has been going on has reminded me of a few things in the last year. The behaviour of public entities that can form public opinion, which since March last year are repeating that there is no sign that it is outrageous to be obliged to vaccinate Bulgarian citizens. And that's what they've been doing on the TV screen for a long time. [[(Replys from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Which one?") Who?]] Many Bulgarian entities who have access to electronic media. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I can look at them, I don't want to mention them. I don't think that's necessary. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Besides, I'm deeply shocked by this perfidious populistic idiocy that's happening in this room. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]] Because we are talking about the need for some vaccine, but until a few months ago a huge percentage of the Bulgarian media explained that vaccines, when they are mandatory or when they advise us to do them, violate our rights as citizens. Today it's forgotten. Short memory appears to be a national disease. At the same time, I am extremely worried about the fat smugness of those who have allowed themselves, since this Parliament started functioning, to stay in this room without masks. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And I'll tell you why, because the reason we're on top of each other in this room is the decision of the Conference of Presidents. [[Heckling]] Okay, no. However, this decision puts at risk the health of a certain group of people. And no, it's not about those who are here, it's about those who are our family, acquaintances, and friends that we meet every day. We're not responsible for people's health. And because we are not responsible for the health of others and people, it would be absolutely hypocrisy to say that we deliver or provide with such a solution a vector vaccine, provided that another one is available and by June there will be for six million Bulgarians. Because when there is a vaccine for six million Bulgarians, there are beginning to be a lack of Bulgarians to be vaccinated thanks to the policy that has been conducted over the last year by irresponsible and insolent people who made their campaign, repeating that there is no horse. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] And I'm sorry that some of them lost their loved ones. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I'm sorry that some of them lost their loved ones. I've been listening to shows that say there's no Kovid and then cry with someone who's lost their loved one on the TV screen again, again, making purely populistic suggestions. It's about time we realized we've made a fool of ourselves with everything we've been doing here for the last month. Yes, Mr. Tsonev, there is no dialogue. There is no dialogue because there are no reasonable people. There are no reasonable people because populism has blinded most of those present here to great regret. We have a responsibility to the Bulgarian citizens and each of us has a responsibility to our constituents and to all those who have given us their trust. We have been wasting our time in the last month and we have created a law by whose rules we may be in a parliamentary and constitutional crisis! And then who's going to take responsibility for that? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u346	- What's the line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Project! DECISION on the award of the Council of Ministers, providing access to the Russian vaccine against COVID-19 to the Bulgarian citizens The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to secure the Russian vaccine against the COVID-19 and the access of Bulgarian citizens to it. They voted 208 MPs: for 83, against 69, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. That concludes this item on the agenda. We're moving on to the next "last, item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE ARGUMENT OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA ON THE PRE-BORROWING TRANSACTIONS FOR AIRPOLICING. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u347	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! This morning we voted not to invite, but to oblige the Prime Minister to resign and the ministers to be in the Chamber. Apparently, the entire term, which passed and the previous mandates of Mr. Borisov, for them the National Assembly did not represent the institution, but was an addition of the Council of Ministers and the executive. But right now we have to vote on a ratification bill that was most likely reported by the Defence Minister in the Council of Ministers. I wonder if the Minister of Defense will at least come and tell us what a speech is about? Does anyone in this room know exactly what we're going to vote on in a moment? And is it normal for you, since we are talking about raising the authority of the National Assembly, when we say that this is the institution that makes decisions about the country's development, to have a similar attitude by the Minister of Defence? A few minutes ago, there was talk in the couloirs that the ministers might be somewhere on their way out of Bulgaria by plane. I hope not, but to be here and to be responsible for their actions and actions in the past, and also in the previous mandates. Madam President, please, if it is possible, to make an effort once again to at least have the Minister of Defence report to the National Assembly, to inform the people's representation about what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u348	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. We've contacted the Secretary of Defense's office. There will be no representative from the Department of Defense. The answer is that it is about amending the Agreement and not ratifying a new agreement. That's why they said they wouldn't be attending this meeting. Regarding the rest of your request to oblige the Council of Ministers and their presence here. The Prime Minister is in hospital until the 18th, the other ministers, with the exception of Ms. Desislava Taneva and Ekaterina Zaharieva, who postpone within the seven-day term, the other ministers are on leave. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u349	Madam President, you've been misled. It is really about ratification, but it is also about authorising foreign aircraft, albeit allied, to enter the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria. We are also talking about additional commitments from the Bulgarian side regarding the implementation of the Air Polish mission. So we continue to insist that a representative of the Council of Ministers come and brief us on the motives of ratification. Moreover, these motives to the proposal for a bill were signed by Tomislav Donchev as acting Prime Minister. So this is the level and let's be good to come to imagine the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u350	Mr. Zafirov, he was submitted by Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, but with the negotiations he is busy and signed by the Deputy Minister of Defence. He's in the Department of Defense's jurisdiction. I told you everyone's on leave, sick, and there's no one to come. I personally spoke with the Prime Minister's office, so there is nothing else I can answer. [[Reply from the MP Atanas Zafirov away from the microphones.]] There is no report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and no importer. You may make an offer to terminate the meeting or to terminate the meeting. You decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u351	Sorry, one more procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u353	I do not want to make a proposal by interruption, this is a very important issue. So I want someone to come and visualize the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u354	You want termination?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u355	I don't want to call off the meeting, I want to look at it and vote on it. We have a responsible attitude towards this point. By the way, I am using the case because I am not going to make a speech later, to tell you that this is great, it is a good thing that the National Assembly ends exactly with the topic of Air Polish. Just as this National Assembly will remain in the minds of the Bulgarian people as a failed National Assembly and National Assembly, in which the vast majority of the parties in it for a record short period of time have forgotten their election promises, and the topic of Air Police is a wonderful illustration of a failed government, which, apart from all other ruins, which you have brought to the state, ruined and Bulgarian fighter aviation. Therefore, it is now necessary, honourable Members, to examine this point. That's the truth. And come from the Council of Ministers to protect their project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u356	Mr. Zafirov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u357	We are responsible, we will take part in the discussion and vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u358	Mr. Zafirov, they're attempting to contact the Ministry of Defense again, but no one's answering the phone. [[(Noise and shouts from BSP for ……]] Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u359	Madam President, honourable Members! Until just now we talked that we have gathered here to work in the interests of Bulgarian citizens, their health and their security, the defence of our country, our freedom, independence and sovereignty. Unfortunately, in the last few days, in fact, the full time of work of the 45th National Assembly we learn that there is a government of Bulgaria mainly on Facebook, but we have not seen it. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS: "Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come ……]] It is not good that a very important bill has been tabled, it is actually the only bill submitted by the government and there is no one to present it, but because it is important for the sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria, I will allow myself to present to you what I understand about the Bill, to share that I will vote for and that we must support this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u360	Mr. Shalamanov, are you already speaking?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u362	Okay. I'm opening the debate. We're going into speeches. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's no one to present the bill, and there's no Report. You have the floor, Mr. Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u363	Thank you, Madam President. I'm moving on to a statement on the bill so tabled. I'll start with the motives. Motives are too technical, and it's about defense. Defense is a very political issue. The fact that an in fact enhanced Air Polishing or enhanced air sovereignty protection missions is being imposed is due to the complicated security situation in the Black Sea Basin. That is why after repeated NATO decisions, in which Bulgaria has participated and is part of the consensus, planes of other NATO countries are located mainly in Romania, which is concerned about security in the Black Sea. And since these planes of third NATO countries, when performing a task of intensive Air Polishing or enhanced Air Polish, should be able to operate in the Bulgarian airspace as well. That is why this Bill is extremely important because it guarantees Bulgarian air sovereignty and allows the solidarity mechanisms within NATO to be used. I would like to share another important side of this issue, namely that any country that becomes a member of NATO, at the same second, the responsibility for air sovereignty is borne by the high commander-in-chief of NATO operations, and that is why there is a centre in This ensures our security, even though our combat aviation is not in the best condition and is highly dependent on Russia. Secondly, I would like to share that this document, in fact, opens the subject of missile defence, which is extremely important in the Southeast part of Europe and on which Romania is taking significant measures, including housing an eGIS ground system that provides protection against a missile attack on our territory, but this seems not of interest to Bulgaria. Quite to the point. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 5 There is talk of a decision on the use of weapons of combat fighters, which is particularly important, as has already been mentioned by some colleagues. Again, you can see the difference in the approach between Bulgaria and Romania. While in Romania this decision is taken by the Minister of Defence, in Bulgaria is taken by the Minister of Defence on a proposal from the Chief of Defence, which means that the Minister of Defence has limited powers and is placed according to the professional military leadership when it comes to important political decisions for the use of weapons in violation of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria. Even this text is completely meaningless because, notice, in the introduced article. 12, para. 1, b. The mission uses on-board weaponry of on-board fighters for the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is written that missions of this nature are not carried out. That is to say, we ratify a document which, unfortunately, will allow third-country aircraft and NATO to fly into our space, following all procedures in order to protect our airspace, but will not have the right to use their weapons, which means that if there are really hostile intentions towards our airspace, NATO will be powerless by virtue of a national decision. Finally, there is a third condition. In fact, I would like to inform you that the biggest problem in NATO is when countries start setting conditions for the use of force, which is what makes NATO's operations insufficiently effective, leads to victims and failure to meet the targets set. In this case, Bulgaria has set another condition and it is that the operation can be carried out in the event of an exchange and a familiar picture of the air situation between the management and reporting centres of Bulgaria and Romania. We all know that due to the condition of Bulgarian radars, which are older than I am, I am 60 years old, cannot provide a reliable, familiar picture of the air situation and therefore it is necessary for radars from Turkey and Greece to report the air situation over the Black Sea and, if necessary, to lift the Awax to seal the radar information. I propose that we should ratify this agreement by law in order to express good will to the brave Bulgarian military, who demonstrated their commitment to our national security and to their holiday, but at the same time I believe that the next Bulgarian government should be much more responsible, firstly, to the Bulgarian Parliament and through it to the Bulgarian citizens. It is precisely because of this responsibility that we proposed on 5 May a declaration on defence policy and on Bulgaria's contribution to NATO development, as it is clear from this agreement and this protocol that Bulgaria continues to be a consumer of security and to introduce great restrictions on the use of the Bulgarian armed forces, which does not guarantee our sovereignty and which does not contribute to strengthening NATO's capacity in the Southeast part of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u364	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. - What's the line? A statement? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u365	Mr. Shalamanov, you know that NATO has one basic principle: first, build your own combat capabilities and then share them with others. It is clear from the behavior of the Bulgarian government that they have no intention of building their own combat capabilities or taking advantage of the allied abilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u366	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u367	Madam President, honourable Members! What Mr. Shalamanov explained is true, it is true, only that many topics have opened up to which the Minister of Retire had to be here to comment on them. What happens to our fighters paid nearly 3 billion? When will they be delivered to the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria? What is happening to ground stations that also need to be upgraded in order for these fighters to become operational? There are many other questions that would have been discussed in the Chamber. The fact that the Minister of Defence is not here speaks eloquently that he cannot answer the questions why the Bulgarian Army is in this tragic state. I do not believe that it was normal for a person from this House, a Member of the National Assembly, to explain what this bill involves and what we should vote on, and it should have been protected by that Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u368	Thank you. For a third line? I won't. For the doppelganger? I won't. Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u369	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to support what Mr. Shalamanov said, although he entered into some greater details. First of all, I would like to say that we have an agreement with Romania in terms of airspace flights with them and with us. In this case, it is a supplement to allow a third NATO country, the planes on which they are based in Romania or in Bulgaria... may not be specifically for Air Polish, but may be during a drill temporarily based with the respective permissions of the country concerned... has a whole system to carry out Air Polish. The reasons have been explained, and I think there is no doubt about it. Very high activity in the Black Sea. This is not a matter of violation of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria, but there is a great deal of activity which, by all rules, requires a reaction from us or from our allies with regard to Air Police. By the way, let us bear in mind that the NATO airspace system is unified, although decisions in most countries are made at national level. It is true about the familiar picture of airspace, but there are countries such as Belgium and the Netherlands that have a single system. They have united forces in both the fleet and so on. Now we have to do this because we have to solve this issue. The problems are really very big and they are related to the resources of Bulgarian aviation and the planes MiG-29. Our parliamentary group has declared that new abilities or defence capabilities should develop on two lines at all. The first line is to use everything that exists that we can and that we have, we can't just throw it away, and the second line is the accelerated modernization of the armed forces. It is obvious that there is one period until 2023 in which we must somehow resolve these issues, as part of the common airspace agreements signed under NATONATNAMDS, the NATO's integrated anti-aircraft and missile system. What are the problems of our aviation is not a time to talk now. Obviously, they're not only Russian, they're not just ours, but over the years, they couldn't solve themselves like other countries. Many of the former commanders, including General Tsanko Stoykov, in 2019 alerted with reports and so on. Clearly, there are very serious questions, and this thing is necessary, as far as the use of weapons is concerned, so is the case in all countries. Romania has decided that it may authorise, in the event of a danger of being used by that aircraft of a third country and by the pilot, the use of arms. It's a very complicated question, it's a difficult decision to make. It's our legislation. If there is a complicated situation, it is evident that a third-party flight will take place, and if necessary, our aircraft will temporarily accompany and resolve this issue if the use of weapons is required. So I also call on all MPs from all parliamentary groups to support it, because this is indeed an important issue for the country's defence. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u370	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u371	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for the professional speeches by Mr. Shalamanov and Mr. Alexandrov, who returned the debate not so much in election speaking as in a debate on the substance of the topic being debated, and it is a Ratification of a protocol to the already existing agreement on joint Air Polishing between Bulgaria and Romania. [[Noise.]] Okay, I'd rather open a clamp for the condition of Bulgarian aviation. There was a contract for modernization of SW-1225 and for repair of MiG-29. As for the new ones that were purchased, under contract and as planned, they have to arrive in 2023 in order to enable the construction of ground infrastructure and the training of pilots accordingly, because they still have to have their training before that. The questions that have been raised for the implementation itself, the protocol that has been provided to us, are only about the possibility of a third country, a member of NATO, to exercise Air Polish in the airspace of Romania and Bulgaria. I think there is no dispute here that there is a complicated situation over the Black Sea, especially in recent months and after the events at the Ukrainian border, and such a solution is correct and necessary. As for the resonant issue raised about the use of third-country aircraft on board, imagine if there was in this bill permission for such pilots to use weapons on Bulgarian territory?! I am convinced that a large part of the left-hand side of the hall would raise a much bigger scandal and be against this thing, because in previous debates on such ratifications they have always opposed that the Bulgarian side should explicitly and only use onboard weapons over Bulgarian territory. From this point of view, I think that some diplomatic consensus has been reached so that no additional tension in society is put in place who exactly can exercise power over the Bulgarian sky. Of course, the issue of radar surveillance is extremely important. The concept of acquiring new 3D radars, I think, in 2015, if memory serves, advocated in the programs for development of the Bulgarian armed forces. This process is currently under way and there is funding in place, as I recall. I truly regret that there are no representatives of the Ministry of Defence and not so much of political leadership, but of civilian expertise, because the issue is the technical one we are looking at. They must have been influenced by yesterday's holiday and I take the opportunity of this tribune to congratulate all Bulgarian soldiers again, to thank them for their service and to wish them back the holiday on May 6th. Finally, I would like to say that I do not see any reason for any fierce debate or for anything that would prevent the bill in question from being supported by consensus, but also to pass at second reading, because ultimately we do not need the vacuum that we create in the government of the state through the last meeting of this Parliament to affect the armed forces and national security. Let them keep guarding our border! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u372	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u373	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, a brief line to Mr. Gajev. Yes, it is understandable to have one downfall, one fear in the government to complete what it guarantees in art. 5 and which guarantees the elements of the Washington Treaty. How do you imagine art. 5 to work if the NATO troops that will come to defend Bulgaria will not have the right to use their weapons?! We need to be a little clearer and this requires a debate in parliament, this requires a vision of allied forces acting in Bulgarian territory, for Bulgarian participation in allied forces and for reducing the restrictions we place on the armed forces. There is no point in spending billions to build an armed force and then putting restrictions on how to use them when participating in operations. However, this should not prevent today's decision to support this protocol from being ratified by law. However, this leads me to emphasise once again that the declaration proposed by us would very much help raise the level of ambition, to work in the direction of vision so that Bulgaria could be a truly effective NATO member. Not because of NATO, but because of Bulgarian sovereignty, for the Bulgarian defence and the opportunity to achieve this defence at a much lower price, so that we can redirect funds into health care, education, pension system and achieve focus where it is needed. Because Bulgaria's focus in the planning process in NATO has always been Land Troops and the Navy. And spending all the funds in the last 20 years just for the Air Force, the result is that we have to use third-party aircraft for our air sovereignty, is a sign of poor governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u374	Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u375	Mr. Gazhev, where are your generals, Colonels? You were left here at the barricade alone. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] We've got it right here, the general's there. Look, guys, there's some consensus, we're going to vote. Let's end this National Assembly positively. [[Radio.]] My line is for Mr. Gazhev not to minimize the process and to reduce the praises a little, because if we start the subject of remodeling Su-25, we can get there by morning. So take it easy on the praises, temperately. The other National Assembly will probably deal with these repairs, I'm almost convinced of that. And let's get to the vote. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u376	For a third line? Mrs. Zaykova, for Mr. Gazhev's line, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u377	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! I am not a specialist and I am extremely grateful to my colleagues who have explained what this is about. I only took the floor to say one sentence. From everything that is happening at the moment, it turns out that we are responsible for the sovereignty of Bulgaria and the state of the Bulgarian army. The only ones who are irresponsible, this is the government of GERB! Because they're not here! [[(Reply and shouts: "Eee!") by GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u378	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Looks like we're gonna keep campaigning. It's a good thing the party numbers haven't been pulled yet. As for the government, the government guaranteed and defended Bulgaria's sovereignty for four years. For a technical declaration, it is unlikely that this is the biggest problem of the state. You're right in your line. I merely quote the contracts that have been concluded and implemented. I already regret that there was no Defence Commission where we could all meet and see what the capacity gained from these repairs was. Something that I think interests all who are in the field of defence because new abilities are important to the Bulgarian army. Mr. Shalamanov, with all due respect to you, let us not confuse Air Police, which is a mission in peace time, with Article 5, which is in crisis and war. Of course, God forbid, when Article 5 enters into use, all our allies can use force in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or wherever. I'm just saying that because it was raised in a line. But in principle, the question: how many foreign powers will be able to use in peace time in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, I at least think that this should be the prerogative of the Bulgarian servicemen and of the Bulgarian government, and not even of allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u379	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u380	Madam President, honourable Members! I see that the Air Police debate is turning into some kind of final line. So I'm asking you to stop with who's running an election campaign, who's pulling the numbers, who's defending the country with a bare chest. If we go back to the past, we'll get to the safety of terrorism, we'll get to the defense of the Black Sea with sailboats and tourists. Let's not go back there, cut the debate and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u381	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. But I cannot put this procedure to a vote, as the parliamentary groups still have time, which has not been exhausted. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the bill for ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Romania on cross-border operations for Air Polishing. Please, voting mode. Please, again, voting regime, as many colleagues raised their hand to the point of not being able to vote. Once again, Members, let us repeat the vote. Vote 158 MPs: 155 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Yordanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u382	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 in relation to Art. 87 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedural proposal that the bill be voted on at second reading in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u383	Thank you. Please vote on such a procedural proposal. Vote 168 MPs: 166 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I ask the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs to order him to report the bill to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u384	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Project! LAW ratifying the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania's government on cross-border operations for Air Polishing A single member. It ratifies the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Romania on cross-border operations for Air Polish, signed on 18 March 2021 in Ruse.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u385	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Please, voting mode. Vote 166 MPs: 163 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Hristo Ivanov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u386	Thank you, Madam President, for a declaration on behalf of a group. I have decided to wait until the agenda is exhausted to make our final declaration on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria. Moreover, it comes after one of the few positive decisions that this Parliament made with consensus on a topic that is really nice to show that it unites us, that is, we can. This I think is an important concluding code in the work of this short Parliament, which is good to emphasise in order to remain in the minds of the people. Many of the spokespersons have defined parliament with various qualifications - failed and so on. I don't agree with that. This Parliament had to express the effort to return to a full democratic regime in Bulgaria. In these, I think, eight or nine working days, we have briefly experienced parts of the history of new times in various countries where parliamentaryism has been established at all. The efforts of this Legislature to clarify, for example, its relations with the executive power. These are things that lovers of history will recognize in England with the relationship between parliament and the king, in Germany. The self-reliant who does not want to come to parliament and the parliament who is trying to bring the ministers here. This effort was not crowned with success, but the fact that it was made.. the fact that it was made with energy is important for the health of Bulgarian democracy. And I'm not ashamed that we were in this together. The fact that GERB quickly started this part of GERB, which is here in the Chamber to discover the value of the Rules and the protections of the opposition, which are placed in it, is also nice, is also part of the return of the health of Bulgarian democracy. There were times when their protection of the well-ordered legislative process really was almost authentic. If a man closed his eyes and didn't remember what they were doing until recently, he would have believed it. And I hope they've been doing it with more and more faith and less and less listening to the life of their leader, who speaks the exact opposite. However, I must also express a few regrets. First of all, I regret that the declaration that we had proposed did not find the strength to move and reach the parliamentary hall. It would allow us to further develop the decision we have now made for Air Police in a clear political framework for Bulgaria's efforts in the coming months in terms of defence policy at a time when this is very important. I'm sorry to hear what Mrs. Atanasova said. I would like to express my serious concern. In the previous election campaign Mr. Borisov said several times that our efforts to ensure an honest election process are aimed at giving ourselves an advance to challenge the results of the elections. There have been several such statements. And I have always said that we do not aim at questioning or making preliminary arguments to challenge the outcome of the elections, on the contrary, we have made great efforts to help with more honest, more transparent elections entirely with voluntary resources. Something that has been denied and questioned here in this room, but let's say that we don't need to remind it. Some of the things you said, Mrs. Atanasova, and some of the things Mr. Borisov has said in the last few weeks, make me sincerely worried that you would expect some bad results, deterioration of the result, to undergo yourself. My request is simply to refute this doubt of mine, because a clear statement in this regard would be helpful. You cannot deny the fact that your approach with regard to the Election Code yes, it was necessary to push these amendments into a very urgent regime, but they were necessary because the Bulgarian society had been expecting them for years. Your approach was at times too destructive. And while there were times when it was good to observe how you stood up for the rights of the opposition and it was important and nice, there were other moments when you blamed the opportunity of this Parliament precisely in its effort to restore full democracy to a rather ugly look. It looked pretty ugly what happened yesterday at the audit committee. I haven't been there, I've seen the whole fair you've organised, and I have to tell you that you may be pleased that you've thwarted some guy to say some things, but the truth is that you've given the most serious political proof that you don't want these things to be discussed and spoken. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. But, see, in terms of what ended or did not end this Parliament, in terms of its task to restore certain procedures in their completeness, this thing will also remain part of its short legacy. And finally, I want to say one thing. I talked about the relations between the executive and legislative authorities, which, of course, could not be fried and well arranged, which at times were perhaps too emotional, too ugly, but still began to reset the balance after the too long neglect of the legislative authority, which I do not think any of you would deny. But there's a third power, and that's the judiciary. We have submitted a package of laws from the very beginning of this Parliament, including we have proposed, we have not imported because we did not have the necessary number of signatures, amendments to the Constitution. No interest was caused by the other parliamentary groups. I am not saying that precisely our amendments should have been supported, but to close our eyes to the fact that Bulgaria is in a deepening, not just deep, in a deepening crisis of its justice is either irresponsible or a form of exploitation of this situation, because some people hope to enjoy actual immunity while maintaining this situation. Bulgaria is a member of the European Union for over a decade and continues to be under three monitoring in the area of justice. Bulgaria has forgotten. "We are not even talking about Schengen anymore and about our acceptance in it. Corruption is a topic that is present in absolutely every pronunciation of international organizations regarding Bulgaria. We can't keep turning a blind eye to this deep crisis. We cannot keep our eyes closed no matter who says it, we all know that specialized justice is seen by the Bulgarian business as a bat for electoral repression. And some of you have experienced it. And I don't wish any of you, and I don't wish any of you to experience it as selective repression. Before the law, everyone has to take responsibility. My call from now on, colleagues, because we are leaving this Parliament, we have done one job and this is the Bulgarian nation, the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian society to see that Boyko Borisov can be removed from power that he may not be able to trade another power combination this time. That was very important. This was very important for the Bulgarian society! But from here on in these elections, we will have to turn to this society, and in this sense, I think it is good that the elections are so soon, that we turn around and talk to our constituents, and to those of whom we want their support for what we want this support for. I would like to call on you: give us a really deep and complete vision, especially with regard to justice. For many years I've heard how it doesn't interest people, people only care about the fridge. That's not true. That's not true! The Bulgarians know very well the connection between dignity, the relationship between well-being and the ability to produce themselves with their efforts and with their qualities well-being, and the relationship between freedom and justice one law for all. We owe it to Bulgarian citizens to catch up with them in this awareness as a political class, so to speak. My call is that within this campaign, indeed, we all make a serious effort, to articulate what we can commit to, to hear from each other in this regard. Because this will be the basis for the dialogue that is also spoken of here. There's gotta be a dialogue. However, dialogue should be based on the pursuit of truth and on the pursuit of tasks that the Bulgarian society has placed on us, not just to make it appear that we are having a dialogue to support each other here in some privileged state. This is the difference between my thesis on dialogue and what many may see. So let us address the voters honestly, including our vision of governance and the responsibility we are prepared to bear. Here we will bear our share of this responsibility and with regard to justice. It's very important. Thank you. I want to thank you for your collaboration. I've learned a lot from you, it's been interesting and full, and I hope we can build on it. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-05-07.u387	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. By adopting the Law on the ratification of a second vote, our programme for today has been exhausted. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
