ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. I'm also asking for the registration of my colleagues who are on the platform. Mr. Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u2	Andrei Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Yesterday I read you the message about parliamentary control. It makes it clear that parliamentary control will not be implemented today, which is why I propose that item 9 of the National Assembly Programme, which was voted on Wednesday, be dismissed. In its place, after a decision of the Conference of Presidents, we agreed to enter as a point the two drafts for a decision. The first draft decision is to set up a temporary committee of inquiry to establish and verify the legality of the construction of all sites located on the territory of Lesopark "Rosenets" and the municipality of Burgas, as well as all actions taken from the summer of last year by representatives of the political forces and employees of NSO. And Draft Decision establishing a temporary committee to establish facts and circumstances regarding the actions and omissions of the competent authorities on illegal constructions and sites in the territory of Lesopark. And as the last point 10 to enter a draft decision on the establishment of a temporary committee for investigation of facts and circumstances in the use of tear gas, the use of force and assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens. Yes, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I demand that the delays in answering questions and requests from ministers comply with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure and be made reasoned. Yesterday, colleagues from GERB convinced that there is no problem with the answers within three days when it comes to not very complex and not very digital questions and questions. But in fact we all know the truth. Yesterday GERB MPs again covered their ministers and the opportunity to postpone with a week the answers to questions remained. Whether this will be in the Rules of the Forty-Fiveth People's Assembly or not, I cannot guess. There is a majority here that will protect the ministers from the MPs and from the Bulgarian people to the end. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] But I demand that the rules be observed. When a minister, deputy prime minister or prime minister postpones a reply to a parliamentary question or to a question, indicate reasons why. And to be uncompromising, Madam President, unlike your predecessor, which of the motives of the ministers and of the Prime Minister should be respected. Hiding from the people just has to stop!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. There are Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Ministers shall be entitled, in accordance with the provisions of these Rules, to postpone the relevant questions. Dear Members, please vote on the proposals made by me to include new items on the agenda and to drop parliamentary control. Vote 175 MPs: 165 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. [[National representatives of ISMW, DB want the floor for declaration.]] Colleagues, there is a MP who has not taken an oath and has expressed his desire to take an oath on the platform. Let the people's representative take the oath first and then I will give you the floor for declarations from parliamentary groups. Mr. Atanas Kostadinov, please repeat after me! [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u6	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u7	Thank you. Do you want to do a procedure? Okay, Mr. Hadjigenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u8	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am proposing to include the cameras of BNT1 and the Bulgarian National Radio, as far as today there will be an interesting agenda of statements from parliamentary groups, the Election Code of something that citizens look forward to seeing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. A counteroffer? There's no counterproposal. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Hadjigenov for direct transmission on BNT and BNR. Vote 186 MPs: 175 against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Babikan, on behalf of a parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The statement is on behalf of the parliamentary group. Yes, I allow myself to do so for the simple reason that today is the last day before tomorrow's celebration of the International Day in memory of the victims of Armenian genocide. The new parliament of Bulgaria has a chance to show a new face. I thank my colleague Lyuben Dilov for what he did a few days ago. This is an act that shows clear empathy, I just want to remind you that it has been doing this for many years, regardless of which part of parliament it is from and whether it is in parliament at all. A person of solidarity and true empathy for the tragedy of more than a million and a half Armenians killed or violently deported by the repressive regimes of the Ottoman Empire at the end of the XI and the beginning of the 20th century. This wound in the history of mankind continues to bleed and cause tremors in a number of civilized societies, just as much as any painful subject in history that we refuse to close. Because killing the Armenians paves the way for both the Holocaust and the Katyn Forest and the Red Khmer, the so-called Cultural Revolution in China. This is a crime against humanity, which has been repeated since then in Rwanda, in Uganda, in Bosnia, I will not finish the multipoint. Not admitting the genocide over the Armenians is a denigration of the bitter historical fate of the Bulgarians from Adrianople and Belomorie. It is a dispute between people who are afraid of diplomacy or people who are involved in philology. However, the facts are the same. Many countries in Europe and in the world have dared to recognise Armenian genocide so that their peoples and the world community can move forward. It's a moral act, not political. In Bulgaria in 2015 the previous rulers did not gather the courage to call events by their real names. Health it is, sooner or later it will happen! Obviously, politicians then understood the tools of diplomacy and good neighbourhood as a manifestation of cowardice and fear, but the people in Bulgaria are no longer afraid. I say this with a clear awareness that on the one hand, I have many, many, many Turkish friends. They will continue to be my friends, I hold on to them, and what I say is not related to the Turkish people, but to the state that ruled at this time. At the same time, I never mentioned it, and maybe it wasn't important, more than 40 people of my kind went away then. It's probably a private case, but when it's this size, it's not a private case! That's why I'm wearing this forgetfulness on my lapel today, because I mustn't forget. [[shows badge]] The fact is also Hitler's words, slightly mocking: Does anyone remember the massacre of the Armenians? The fact is also the recognition of Armenian genocide by the parliaments of France, China, Cyprus, Russia, Greece, Belgium, Switzerland, Poland, Lithuania, the Vatican, Italy, Great Britain. And outside Europe countries such as Argentina, Australia, Canada, Uruguay, Brazil have also officially acknowledged and condemned the extermination of Armenians and banishment of them from lands where they have inhabited more than eight centuries. As early as 1975 of the last century, the Lower House of the American Parliament recognised the genocide over the Armenians and obliged the American presidents to send a condolence message to the Armenian people every 24 April. The fact is also the decision of the French Parliament of 12 October 2006, when it adopted the Law on Criminalisation of Armenian Genocide, according to which anyone denying its existence is subject to criminal prosecution. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we are staying in the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria at a time when Bulgarian citizens requested change and refused to live more with lies. The citizens matured for the truth and sent us here to defend it as a high value. Citizens have asked for honesty and morality in public relations, and today we have the opportunity to give them a symbolic sign of this from the high tribune of the state's supreme legislature. From the parliamentary group of the coalition stand up! We propose the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt a decision, a declaration, a resolution announcing the genocide of the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire in 1915. The Armenians in Bulgaria, in Armenia and the thousands scattered throughout the world await this act of solidarity. After researchers and historians, it is the turn of politicians to take their step towards restoring historical justice. And maybe say something good at the end! In addition to being a sad day that requires a memorial, we should also be grateful to the Bulgarian people, who accepted after these persecutions and massacres the descendants of the surviving Armenians, the Bulgarian people who saved their Jews. This is part of the dignity of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria), ICN, ISV, DB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u11	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, under the National Assembly's decision of 24 April 2015, the correct term is not "genocide" but "extinction" so I ask for precision, Mr Babikan. On behalf of the DPS parliamentary group, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the historical memory of mankind, there are many dates and events associated with bloodshed, the taking of millions of lives, abuse and demeaning of human dignity. We all owe compassion and sympathy to the victims at any time as people, but at the same time we must clearly distinguish ourselves as politicians from a selective approach to historical events, as well as from topics that can promote new dividing lines and oppose groups, nations and countries. We must exercise political wisdom and responsibility in order not to bring about the exploitation of a historic subject in order to serve the policy of division and opposition. I call on each and every one of you to make an effort for political wisdom and responsibility to prevail, for the National Assembly to express its empathy, compassion, compassion, honor and worship to the memory of all the victims of the tragic events of the history of mankind, without distinction between ethnicity, ethnicity, race, race, faith, gender, occupation. Today populism is on the outskirts of our country and any form of hatred, division and opposition is normally accepted. The birth of these phenomena must be sought in the 12 years back when an impetus of hatred and opposition has become an official state policy. The unspoken public agreement on a peaceful transition and reporting of the Bulgarian ethnic model was abandoned. The so-called revival process was denied in order to result in the absence of representatives of the victims of this process in the Committee on Human Rights in the previous National Assembly. In itself, this fact is sufficient to determine the level of democracy and the degree of protection of rights and freedoms today in our country. The fact is that today we also have a severe crisis of tolerance. Democracy needs protection and statehood needs a restart. Historical times require a wise position and political responsibility to future generations. History gives us the lessons.. Let us learn from them without using the historical faults as political arguments. We DPS are consistent. Our position and our policies are with a horizon far in the future, with lessons learned from history, with a responsible position before our homeland, with the awareness that it is up to us what future we will leave to our children and what Bulgaria will be forward in time. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, today more than ever, we need a consensus. If we all want real consensus when we want to honor certain historical facts, we must look at the present and future of our country and take account of it geographically and geopolitically. Let us avoid populism, opposition and stick to our nationally responsible behaviour, protect the sovereignty of our country, work for our worthy place in NATO and the European Union and be good neighbours with all countries. Dear colleagues, history knows many painful moments. Today is also about one such moment, but what is happening here is a political use of a historic moment. Such topics should be left to historians. Politicians should seek ways of humility and dialogue, of unification before human pain, and not as a cause for division. In this case, the use of such topics for political purposes desecrates the memory of the victims. The purpose of such acts is disunity, opposition, and is only a sign that lessons from the past remain unlearned "all that opposes and divides makes the common path to consensus and reconciliation difficult. Once again, we call for a responsible position and let political wisdom prevail. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u13	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. From the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Bulgaria. April 24 is the date of commemoration of the attempt to destroy the Armenian people, in which they lost their lives over 1.5 million Armenians. The Armenian question was posed as a diplomatic concept during the Berlin Peace Congress in 1878, when the Great Powers imposed on the Sultan to provide and guarantee the civil rights of the Armenians. In response in 1895, Abdul Hamid II organised a massacre in which some 300 thousand Armenians were killed and in 1908 another 30 thousand were killed in Adana and the Sultan was overthrown. The Youth Government promised through reforms to revive the Ottoman Empire, but on 15 April 1915 the Ministry of Interior of the Ottoman Empire sent out the following top secret document to all regional and regional governors, I quote: "Using the opportunities provided by the war, we have decided to finally destroy the Armenian people by deporting them to the Arab deserts. " Thus, from 1915 to 1918, a plan for the destruction of the Armenian people has been implemented, in a particularly cruel way, which killed about 1.5 million Armenian people more than half of the nation, and not a few others, especially children, have been violently Mohamed. The entire Armenian population is seeking salvation in the escape from the native lands. In two consecutive waves after Abdulhamide and the young Turkic massacres, the mass migration of Armenians in Bulgaria takes place. Banished from their homes, caravans from refugees naked, barefoot, bloody, without documents, enter a free Bulgaria for years.. mothers and fathers without their children, children without their parents. At the time, our country was severely injured by two lost wars and the population was in poverty and misery, but the Bulgarians were generous and compassionate and opened their homes and hearts to the tortured refugees. To those who only wanted to pass through our country to look elsewhere for their homeland, Bulgaria has given a free corridor, providing them with Nansen passports. Thousands of Armenian refugees, however, saw in Bulgaria the hospitality of the locals, the chance for deliverance from their sufferings and the opportunity to build their new home. To them in 1923 the government of Alexander Stamboliiski gave Bulgarian citizenship. These Armenian refugees, taught their children and grandchildren that in order to thank Bulgaria, they must love her very much. The word Bulgaria became sacred to them and over the years they became part of the Bulgarian people, its craftsmen, intellectuals, musicians, athletes. In 2015, the European Parliament declared April 24th a European day to commemorate the victims of the Armenian genocide in the Ottoman Empire in 1915. Sixteen Member States of the European Union have also officially recognised Armenian genocide. It is proven by clear historical facts and authentic documents. Although in its 2015 Declaration, the Bulgarian National Assembly managed to avoid the word genocide, using a mass extermination of the Armenians, we of the "Democratic Bulgaria" find it our duty to name the events by their real names, recognize them and condemn them as genocide. Bow to the innocent victims of Armenian genocide! [[Loud applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Bachkova. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I would rather return the topic to the work of the National Assembly. Yesterday on the social networks was a video of a vicious practice, for which we had forgotten the last years the newly elected President of the Legal Commission Mr. Vassilev was photographed to vote with the map of the Chairman of the group of the people there is such a people. [[Noise and lines from ISV and ICN.]] Firstly, this is a practice that destroyed the authority of parliament and which was terminated with the introduction of biometric data in 2009. Because we decided to return to this House, of course, it is difficult to synchronise the system of parliament, but this does not in any way allow MEPs to abuse this practice. It is not useful for Parliament's rating, and the commitments of a large part of the political forces in this parliament were precisely to increase the authority of parliament, raise it and make Bulgarian citizens trust in the legislative power. Such practices are not just ugly, they destroy even more trust than the first days of this Parliament. I hope that the biometric data will be introduced within an hour, which, by force, will end this type of action, but I find it extremely offensive to rely on the forceful approach to prevent us from abuse of such things. I hope that in those days, in which an hour rather, these things will be really organized, but also until the moment they are organized, we will stop such practices and not return to the years when they were the rule. We all remember how MPs flew to vote with 10 cards. It didn't do any good, on the contrary. It is strange that these practices can so easily return and so authenticly be applied by colleagues who are even for the first time in the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For the record, from next Wednesday, biometric data will be voted on. Personal explanation, Mr. Vassilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u18	Dear Mr. Bikov, you probably got confused and didn't mean me, but please, since I've been listening to you for two or three days, you usually don't know what you're talking about in this room. Be a little more specific! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Anyone else for a statement? Procedure? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the written declarations, I propose that the Bulgarian National Assembly, with a one-minute silence, honor the day in memory of the mass extermination of the Armenian people, or also known as the day of Armenian genocide.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u21	There are rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov, but I will not put it to the vote and I will not allow it, as these proposals for one-minute silence are made in accordance with the Rules until 6 p.m. on the previous day. [[Replications. Members of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly and the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria.]] We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTIES OF THE CODEX OF THE SELECTED CODEX.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u23	What are we doing?! Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u24	I applied the Rules, I didn't allow it. Let's move on. I've announced the next point. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u25	The Chair of the Legal Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Legal Commission, I will present to you This Regulation for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 154-01-2, submitted by Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2021, Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 154-01-18, submitted by Maya Bozidarova Manolova-Naidenova and a group of MPs on 16 April 2021, Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 154-01-21, submitted by Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov, Antoaneta Dimitrova Tsoneva and Ivayloev Mirchev on 16 April 2021, Draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 154-01-26, submitted by Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov, Antoaneta Dimitrova Tsoneva and Ivayloev Mirchev on 16 April 2021, Draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 154-01-26, submitted by Deslava Valcheva. At its meeting held on 21 April 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed those bills amending and supplementing the Election Code. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Ivan Kondov Permanent Secretary, and Mr. Stamen Genov Secretary General; from the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria: Professor Emilia Drumeva Secretary for Legal Affairs; from the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u27	One second, colleague Vassilev. Please be quiet in this room, colleagues! We're broadcasting directly. I don't think we're gonna get used to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u28	Mrs. Rumyana Decheva, Vice-President and Mrs. Iva Lazarova, Member of the Association of the Central Election Commission: Mrs. Vanya Nusheva, Program Director and Lecturer of the Election Systems and Election Administration at the Sofia University; from the Association of Orlov Most for Change Draft No 154-01-2, submitted by Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mrs. Yordanova, who pointed out that it introduces an opportunity for post-election in national elections, providing for the process to be conducted through a postal operator and/or courier, which will be selected by the CEC after a competitive procedure. It is proposed that the procedure for separation of envelopes and counting be carried out twice, such as ballots sent after the deadline, as well as ballots received after the end of the election day will be considered invalid. The proposed postal vote allows Bulgarians abroad to vote for candidate lists for MPs with a preference. The bill proposes that the total number of polling stations formed in a non-member country may not exceed 35 and that an audit by different interested parties is envisaged. Mrs. Yordanova pointed out that it is proposed to drop the requirement that the sectional election committees to carry the results of the paper ballot counting and their summation, in the paper protocol the sectary election commission will only reflect the vote with paper ballots. It is envisaged that the printout of the engine vote and the paper protocol will be submitted together to the RIK, such as observers, advocates and representatives of parties and coalitions will be entitled to receive a copy not only from the paper protocol, but also from the printout of the engine vote. It is proposed that the collection of signatures by electronic means be done by qualified electronic signature or by ARC. It added that it is envisaged that video broadcasting of the counting, filling of the minutes and packaging of the electoral papers should be carried out by means of a broadcast provided by the Central Election Commission by means of specially purchased devices and carried out by the members of the selection committees or by means of broadcasting by advocates, observers and political representatives through means of their choice. Changes are also proposed to ensure that the CEC has the status of an independent professional body and that the quota principle in the formation of the CEC and its numerical composition is reduced to 9 members. Decisions are also proposed to overcome cases where the CEC cannot take a decision because it cannot achieve the required majority. In conclusion, Mrs. Yordanova noted that a clear time horizon for the construction of a remote electronic voting system was introduced and according to her the deadline of 3 years is necessary for the complete development, implementation, testing and evaluation of the system in several experimental votes. The draft law, No 154-01-9, introduced by Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs, was presented by Mrs. Miteva, who pointed out that it makes changes in the rules for forming the polling stations outside the country, thus enabling Bulgarian voters in non-member countries to exercise their voting rights as provided for Bulgarian citizens in the Member States of the European Union. The creation of the 32nd multi-mandated electoral district is proposed, outside the country and the proposal aims to reflect the vote of the real number of voters residing outside the country. In view of the size and specifics of this election area, it is envisaged that the preparation and holding of the elections will be carried out by the CEC and the number of mandates is determined by the number of votes voted in the last National Assembly elections in accordance with the methodology set out in Annex No 1. She pointed out that with the establishment of an electoral area, it will be possible for voters to vote for candidate lists and with a preference, including independent candidates. In accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the rules for determining the number of mandates in the multi-mandated electoral regions are refined and the requirement that the number of mandates should not be less than 4, and this change will be applied after the official announcement of the census results in 2021. A vote is proposed only on the machine-voting ballot, with the vote by paper ballot being held in the sections indicated in the law and, exceptionally, only after an explicit declaration. At the end of the election day, the selection panel shall take into account the results of the engine vote by printing a system protocol and its application to the record with the results of the paper vote. The engine voting data will be added to the paper voting data when entering the calculation posts of the Regional Election Commission. It is proposed that during the first elections for MPs after the adoption of the CEC bill, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, organise, if possible, a vote by post for voters abroad. The voter is scheduled to state that he wishes to vote by mail by sending an electronic application to the CEC no later than 45 days before the election day. A video or video transmission shall be entered when counting and reporting votes in the electoral room to ensure direct visibility of persons who may be present. Analogical provisions shall also be introduced upon acceptance and verification of the minutes of the sectional election committees and transfer of the engine voting data from the recording technical device in the regional and municipal election committees and the calculation posts to them. It is proposed that the President of the Republic of Bulgaria should appoint new members of the CEC within 14 days of the entry into force of the law, reducing the composition of the commission from 18 to 15 members, following public consultations with the parties represented and coalitions. It also eliminates the possibility of parties and coalitions represented in the European Parliament but not represented in the national Parliament to make proposals for members of the committee and to clarify the conditions for their incompatibility with the position held. The Bill proposes that an experimental remote electronic vote be produced in the Presidential elections in 2021. A change in the time limits for appeal and legal proceedings against CEC decisions is proposed by introducing the short-terms under the Election Code for all proceedings. A draft, No 154-01-18, submitted by Maya Manolova-Naidenova and a group of MPs, was presented by Mrs. Manolova, who pointed out that it is envisaged when holding elections for MPs the creation of the 32nd multi-mandated electoral region outside the country, providing the possibility for voters outside the country to vote for candidate lists and with a preference, not only for a party or coalition. Automatic opening of sections outside the country is available if there have been sections in the respective settlement for the last 5 years. A new line is proposed to draw up the electoral lists by means of active registration. The competent to draw up electoral lists will be the municipal administrations who receive a list of the Bulgarian citizens voted in the last elections by the CEC. The list is intended to be supplemented by persons who have actively registered up to 5 days before the election day by introducing the possibility of voting by adding to the list and on the election day itself. Mrs. Manolova stressed that the draft proposed as the only way to vote to remain the engine vote, except for voting outside the country, through a mobile electoral box, in polling stations in medical institutions, old people's homes and other specialized institutions for providing social services, as well as in polling stations of vessels flying a Bulgarian flag. The introduction of a remote electronic vote is envisaged and the CEC is proposed to provide the remote voting system and ensure its security, as the committee is responsible for conducting the elections abroad. The Commission is tasked with establishing the result and printing the protocol drawn up by an automated system. It is proposed that voters should be able to vote repeatedly during the voting period, taking into account their last vote during the vote in order to avoid the risk of pressure to vote and control the vote. The Law also introduces video surveillance with recording and online broadcasting when counting ballots from mobile sections and outside the country, establishing the results, drawing up the protocols in the section election committees, adopting the protocols in the district and municipal election committees and entering the data into calculation centres. Mrs. Manolova pointed out that a reduction of the threshold for displacement of leaves is proposed by preferential voting from 7% to 5% in order to strengthen the majority element in the elections and that all CEC decisions are to be subject to appeal. Optimizing the composition of the CEC is proposed by reducing its members from 18 to 15 people. Each parliamentary party or coalition is scheduled to propose one Vice-President of the Commission, with the newly elected composition of the committee finishing the term of office of the current committee. It is proposed to restore the old legal situation when elections for mayor took place in every settlement with over 100 people, not more than 350 people, as it is now. In view of decentralisation it is proposed that the mayors of settlements have a separate budget, which is adopted by the municipal council and depends on the number of the population and the participation of the respective settlement in the revenue part of the municipality. Draft Law No 154-01-21, submitted by Hristo Ivanov, Antoaneta Tsoneva and Ivaylo Mirchev, was presented by Mrs. Yordanova, who pointed out that it offers a specific legal framework regarding the remote electronic vote, which received broad support from the national referendum held on 25 October 2015. Mrs. Yordanova noted that in 2018, the European Parliament voted for new rules for holding elections for MEPs, including remote electronic voting as an option, and added that a number of developments and scientific articles on remote electronic voting were taken into account when drafting the Bill, as well as Estonian experience in this type of vote. The bill provides for the remote electronic vote to take place not earlier than seven days and not later than three days before the election day, thereby providing sufficient time for both voters to vote and committees to carry out their operational work. Mrs. Yordanova emphasized on the possibility that the voters could change their vote during the period for remote electronic voting and added that this option is a key aspect for protection against voting under external factors such as vote buying, corporate and family vote. The Bill lays down the specific requirements to be met by the remote electronic voting system to ensure fair elections and to ensure the secrecy of the vote, providing for certification of the system under international IT security standards and its regular audit. It is envisaged that the vote counting will be carried out automatically after express approval by the members of the CEC, and the results will be automatically distributed by electronic transfer regions and combined with the results of the engine vote or vote by paper ballot. A mandatory condition for system security is the availability of an open source code that will allow scientists and experts in computer security and electronic voting to do analyses that not only confirm levels of security, but also identify potential problems. The bill also provides for specific suspension, suspension and refusal procedures for the launch of the remote electronic vote, as well as an obligation to inform the public in the case of attacks on the system. In order to ensure transparency of the electoral process, it is envisaged to provide access to the information centres where the remote electronic voting system is operated, as well as the possibility of verifying and comparing the digital footprint of the system used with the previously announced one. A parallel counting of the submitted electronic newsletters is also envisaged, as well as publication of all protocols in machine readable format. Draft No 154-01-26, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, was presented by Mrs. Atanasova, who pointed out that it proposes a change of the electoral system from proportional to majority. She explained that the draft law envisions the election for MPs to be produced by majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds in one-mandated electoral regions. The creation of one-sided electoral regions with approximately the same population is proposed according to updated data from the National Statistical Institute. Mrs. Atanasova noted that the advantage of the majority system is that it increases confidence in the activities of the National Assembly and guarantees the right of the sovereign to directly elect MPs. The proposed changes provide for the division of the country's territory into 234 single-mandated electoral regions with approximately the same population and six single-mandated electoral regions outside the country, each of which elects only one candidate. She added that in the majority system, by an absolute majority, the candidate must receive more than half of all the actual votes in order to be elected and when no candidate has received an absolute majority, a second round is held which allows the two candidates with the most votes in the first round. It is also envisaged that the conditions for the active and passive exercise of selective law be refined, that within one month before the first elections are held for MPs living outside the Republic of Bulgaria can be submitted to the CEC for active registration for voting outside the country, the composition of the regional electoral commission is specified and an obligation for the mayors of municipalities and regional governors to carry out a check of all addresses of voters six months before elections for MPs are held. The proposed changes aim to raise personalities for candidates for MPs who have high professional and moral qualities and are acceptable to society. Ms. Atanasova emphasized that majority electoral systems attract the support of a large number of voters and are generally simpler and transparent to voters because of the lack of systems for redistribution and transfer of votes applied by proportionate systems. She stressed that the proposed changes are in response to the Bulgarian citizens' demands in the national referendum held on 6 November 2016, in which a significant part of the Bulgarian citizens preferred the introduction of the majority election system for MPs. A draft law No 154-01-28 was presented by Mr. Hadzhigenov, who said that it proposes the annulment of the provision, which provides for a ban on being designated and registered on behalf of parties and coalitions as candidates for MPs, a number of groups of citizens who are at the state service of the armed forces, the officials of the diplomatic service, the officials of the Ministry of Interior, the civil servants of the State Agency of National Security, judges, prosecutors and investigators, as well as other persons legally prohibited from membership in a political party. Mr. Hadzhigenov pointed out that the current provision removed the possibility of participation in the electoral process of one of the most prepared and respected legal strata in the state. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 3 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - with 10 votes for the election code, No 154-01-9, submitted by Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs on 15 April 2021; - with 3 votes in favour, without the opposition and 13 votes in abstention, the National Assembly proposes not to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 154-01-18, submitted by Maya Bozidarova Manolova-Naidenova and a group of MPs on 16 April 2021; - with 3 votes for the election code, No 154-01-21, submitted by Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov, Antoaneta Dimitrova Tsoneva and Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev on 16 April 2021; - with 5 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour, and 2 votes in abstention, propose to the National Assembly not to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 154-01-26, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2021; - with 1 vote....... 7 votes against....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u29	Thank you, colleague Vassilev. Here you are, Mr. Rashidov, in the manner of conduct. I request that the parliamentary groups of importers be prepared to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u30	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I get up the way I'm supposed to. Someone asked for a minute of silence, and in this room very few people knew what you were doing. This is a breach of procedure and this is done with a written request the day before. I'll tell you something I don't say everywhere. It's too bad Haygashod Agasian came out. If there is one person in this room who is an honorary citizen of Armenia, it is me and it must be for some merit. I believe that all MPs would rise to worship the memory and victims of all the innocent people of the world. Because since last time there has been a declaration of the Holy Sofia....and we did not ask with this political circus today to politicize the memory of some people!? I can tell you that I've been to Armenia many times, and I've led Astor and Haygashod, too, shouldn't politicize the sufferings of a people. I'm not gonna tell you the reason why I was in Armenia because I had some conversations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u31	Mr. Rashidov, you haven't been in the way for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u32	So, please, follow the rules. I'm addressing you, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u33	Thank you. We'll stick with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u34	Follow the rules and insert the necessary...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u35	Thank you. We will observe it, and the chairman then gave no one a minute's silence or anything else.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u36	They're up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u37	They can get up and sit down whenever they want. That's not up to the chairmanship table. They have the word for bill importers. Who wants the word first? [[Heckling]] You know it's the order of introduction. So I'm asking you who wants it? Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova. [[Heckling]] I hope, Mr. Rashidov, that the first order of business will not speak louder than the rapporteur from the microphone? [[Heckling]] Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear compatriots! "Democratic Bulgaria" presents to your attention and insists the National Assembly to make several important decisions so as to guarantee the right of every Bulgarian citizen to exercise his right to vote as our Constitution provides. We also make proposals that guarantee an honest, transparent and secure vote. According to what our constituents have assigned us to defend to you, we foresee this: First, the introduction of a postal vote. Colleagues, we live in a world that is dynamic. Each of us and our compatriots are moving.. living in different places, moving in the country, moving abroad. They should be able to vote remotely. The postal vote has been known to apply throughout the democratic world since the 19th century. The recent elections in the Netherlands have made it very clear that it is an important tool for resolving the issue of voter turnout when we vote in the conditions of a pandemic. Yes, various considerations have been heard that affect the security of the vote, but there are a number of guarantees to ensure this particular security. We propose dropping the limit for forming sections abroad because we saw in the past elections that our compatriots in Britain, the United States, were deprived of the right to vote as they had stated. For example, only 35 sections were opened in Britain instead of 88 according to the applications of our compatriots. We also offer an area of state. Colleagues, you know now that our countrymen abroad, when they vote, cannot vote preferentially for candidate lists. This vice must be overcome because the voter has the right to indicate his or her preferences for representation in the National Assembly and to have a closer relationship. When we talk about the security of the vote, there are two things we need to do to ensure an independent audit of the machines before the purchase and before the production of any choice. The audit should not be left only in the hands of the administration, it should be allowed to include various NGOs, political representatives of the political spectrum, so that our fellow citizens can be sure that the machines are not a black box, but actually provides their vote. Video surveillance. Filming and broadcasting in real time the counting of ballots and drafting of the protocols is a battle which the Democratic Bulgaria is leading for months. It is in everyone's best interest to settle this legislation so that we increase confidence in the electoral process. We also propose a series of amendments to activate, to give our compatriots more opportunity to vote. The first is to allow them to declare their willingness to vote at the current address by electronic means without qualified electronic signature. Yes, there is now such an opportunity of the State Agency "E-Management" but, firstly, it does not include all municipalities and, secondly, requires qualified electronic signature. As it became clear, a very small part of the citizens have this signature. That is why we must extend this opportunity. We offer other options and suggestions for electronization of the process, I don't think that surprises anyone. And the last two things. We need to solve the appeal problem. The actions that led the Democratic Bulgaria showed the absurd solution in the current text of the Election Code. We must ensure that we have a real, effective judicial act until election day. As a conclusion and last but not least, of course, it is high time to introduce professional CEC without party quotas, and in this sense is our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Mrs. Miteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The amendments and additions proposed by the MPs from the parliamentary group of the.There is such a people.The main goal is to ensure the production of fair, transparent and democratic elections, which guarantee the right to vote of every Bulgarian citizen wherever he is located. We therefore propose, first and foremost, that the provisions relating to the opening of sections outside the country, operating from 2014 to 26 May 2016, find their systematic place in the Election Code and thus enable all Bulgarian citizens outside the country to exercise their right to vote. The legislative decision adopted in 2016 and the limitation of polling stations to 35 in non-member countries shows a short-term legislative decision. Because even when this decision was adopted, examples of how the number of polling stations was 42 in the United States in 2014 and 41 in the UK. This decision was then adopted as a balanced decision. You see today in the elections on 4 April what a balanced solution we are talking about! We offer as an excuse to the Bulgarian citizens living outside the country as an excuse to the policy that led the majority in the previous parliaments, the applications that were submitted around 88 thousand, in the elections on 4 April 2016 to benefit from the formation of polling stations in the first elections after the entry into force of the Election Code. In this way we will not ask these Bulgarians again to submit applications after they have submitted them and no one has taken them into account. I would like to say something else here, the obstruction of the right to vote that has found its place, including in the resolution of the European Parliament of 2020 on the rule of law and human rights in Bulgaria. So we are obliged to observe all these documents. Secondly, we propose the establishment of a 32nd multi-mandated electoral area outside the country. We propose removing protection currently from four mandates in each multi-mandated election area. The latest 2011 census shows that in some multi-mandated election districts in the country I will give for example Vidin, the uniform norm of representativeness does not correspond to the uniform norm of representativeness in the other election districts. Vidin with about 101,000 population as of 2001, received four mandates because of the safeguard clause with a uniform level of representation of 30 686 voters. The population actually, the uniform norm is 33,686. You can see Vidin has three mandates, but he doesn't have a fourth term. We propose that, due to the fact that the census did not take place in time, these provisions regarding the safeguard clause of four mandates and the establishment of an electoral region abroad should enter into force after the publication of the final results of the census, which will be carried out at the end of the year. In 2021 we believe that the real picture of the country's population should be clear and we believe that a new zoning should be carried out so that the burden of the mandate of each MP should be approximately equal. We are proposing an end to the mandate of the Central Election Commission. We believe that the Central Election Commission has failed to handle the task assigned to it. She made many mistakes from the very timing of the elections until the election results were announced. You all remember the launch of the Central Election Commission with the unlawful decision on the names of coalitions, during the deletion of parties from coalitions, until the announcement of elected MPs and missing the names of MPs elected in two electoral regions. The proposal we are making is fully in line with international standards, including the OSCE's preliminary conclusions on the 4 April 2021 elections, with strong criticism regarding the politicisation of the Central Election Commission and concerns about its work. The proposal we are making is for the Central Election Commission to be appointed after public consultations and a public procedure defined by the President of the Republic on the basis of motivated proposals from the parliamentary parties. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the President is currently appointing the Central Election Commission outside its leadership. We believe that this is not a good approach and we think that we should really go to a professional little Central Election Commission. Therefore, we also offer a reduction in its number to 15 members. Currently, the Central Election Commission consists of 20 members. In his previous term, he reached 23. We also propose dropping the quota for Members of the European Parliament. We don't think that's a good decision. This decision was made in 2009 because of GERB's participation in power already. However, we believe that the representation to be used is what is in the National Assembly. Thanks to this representation with the participation of members of the European Parliament, there are currently members of the Central Election Commission from Bulgaria without censorship and there are members of the Reformation Block.There are members of VMRO, NFSB and Volya, and at the same time there are no members of the new formations that are in the National Assembly. We believe that this cannot continue in this way, moreover, that if the elections for the European Parliament are used for criteria, then why is it not used in the formation of regional electoral committees and the sectional election committees to participate in a strong local coalition which has a representative in the Municipal Council but is not represented at national level? In relation to the case, which arises regarding the video transmission and non-exit of the Supreme Administrative Court in the term until the elections, we propose the decisions of the Central Election Commission other than those explicitly referred to in art. 58 shall also be subject to appeal within the Election Code, that is, within the short three-day time limits, in order for you to rule until the election is made. You understand that after the election, this is now pointless. We also suggest that only one person will be present in the electoral premises, a representative of the party or an advocate of the candidate list of the party concerned, so that there will be no crowding of many people in the electoral room. And with regard to the election campaign, we propose that parties and coalitions that have registered candidate lists in all multi-manded electoral regions should be entitled to equal participation in BNT and BNR. Next, we propose the introduction of engine voting both in the country and outside the country. It is unacceptable for Bulgarian citizens outside the country to be put to different voting conditions than those in which Bulgarian citizens are placed in the country. Across the country, I guess you all know, you don't vote with a preference, you don't vote machine and you don't vote for independent candidates, including not voting for candidate lists, but only for parties and coalitions. We propose that paper voting should remain only for small sections, vessels and specialised establishments. What we are also proposing is that there should be no worries about a possible problem with machine voting in each section of up to 50 percent of the voters in the section concerned, that there are paper ballots, as there may be unforeseen circumstances, that one of the voters may not be able to exercise his vote by machine voting. We therefore provide for the voter to present a declaration that he cannot vote with a machine and a declaration that he has not voted and will not vote elsewhere. The results of the 4 April elections showed that about 23% of voters voted by machine. It also showed that the number of invalid votes against the invalid votes in the 2017 elections fell almost halfway. In the machine vote, you all know that subjectivism will be overcome, the suspicions of manipulation of the vote will be removed, including vote buying, the suspicion of human interference will be eliminated, the assumption of errors will be minimized, the purchase of votes of entire section election committees will be eliminated. The powers of the sectional election committees will be limited only to organizing the election process on the election day... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u41	Time, Madame Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u42	Is it leaking?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u43	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u44	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u45	Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up! It offers changes in the electoral rules to ensure an honest, transparent, free electoral process and the opportunity of Bulgarian citizens, regardless of what part of the world they are in, to exercise their right to vote. The changes we propose pursue three main objectives. The first is the opportunity of our compatriots abroad to vote - two million Bulgarians, two and more - and several hundred thousand Bulgarians who live abroad, who are the biggest investor in Bulgaria. With their support for their families in Bulgaria they give about 2 billion. lv. from gross domestic product, which means that in addition to being interested in the investments they provide, we should also take care of their ability to exercise their right to vote. In the last elections, 180 thousand Bulgarians living abroad exercised their right to vote despite restrictive rules and this is a kind of record. With regard to the Bulgarians in Western Europe and in America, this is a doubling of the number of voters compared to the highest level in 2014. 465 sections were formed for the first time, and the applications that the Bulgarians submitted for the creation of sections were 550. Real sections were not formed because of the restrictions the Election Code provides for the exercise of the vote of Bulgarians abroad. After all, people hung in queues for hours throughout the day and finally failed to exercise their right to vote. I would just like to point out that in Germany, 35 thousand Bulgarians voted, which is almost as much as they voted in one of the electoral regions, the one in Vidin 40 thousand. We are obliged to make changes to the Election Code so that Bulgarians abroad can exercise their right to vote. The second goal that we are proposing is to ensure an honest vote, without manipulation and without stealing votes, without forged protocols. And the third goal is to clear the dead souls of the lists by means of active registration. Regarding the first target. We propose the establishment of a electoral area abroad, whose number of mandates should be determined by the number of Bulgarian citizens voted in the last elections. Thus, the electoral region abroad will have between 10 and 12 mandates depending on how Bulgarian citizens are calculated and voted in Bulgaria. But I think it's fair at least a 10-mandated election district for our countrymen abroad. We also offer relief of the possibility of creating sections, automatic creation of sections where there have already been, without submitting applications and have voted more than 100 people, forming sections with 20 applications, forming sections at the discretion of diplomatic and consular representations. I just want to stress that these are not new proposals. I have proposed and have been part of the Bulgarian legislation these proposals, and I also filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court when the National Assembly limited the number of sections in the countries outside the European Union. Get up! Get up! We demand the introduction of electronic voting by providing free electronic signature, as the procedure for creating electronic identification was sabotaged by the executive and by the national representation. Since 2014, the Election Code contains the obligation to secure an electronic vote and this has not so far happened. If this proposal is rejected, we will support the proposal for a postal vote to be introduced immediately. We also insist that an active registration will finally be made using for the basic lists of the Bulgarians voted in the last parliamentary elections on 4 April, proposing that those who have not exercised their voting rights be given the opportunity to register actively before the election campaign starts, and for those Bulgarian citizens who have not complied with both requirements, on the day of permanent address itself, to be able to exercise their voting rights. What is different in the basic proposals that we are making from the proposals of the majority of the parliamentary groups is that we insist that these changes be introduced now, immediately, without delay. We will never be fully prepared for the creation of Mir abroad. We will never be fully ready for active registration. We will never be fully ready for a machine vote. We just have to do it now and immediately for the next parliamentary elections, regardless of when they will be held. We also insist that, in order to prevent the theft of votes and manipulations in paper protocols, a full machine vote should be put in place for all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of country or abroad. The elections held on April 4th showed that the Bulgarians are ready for a machine vote. They voted quickly, freely and without problems with the machines of the parliamentary vote held on April 4th. We demand a reduction in the threshold for parliamentary and local elections from 7 to 5%. In this way, the preferences regime will be uniform for all types of elections. It also turned out that the Bulgarians wanted to vote preferentially and a huge part of them did. Let preferences be able to work on most of the cases. We have made a commitment to the mayors of small towns and with our Election Code we bring the opportunity to be elected mayors of small towns with population over 100 people. We made a promise and we did it. In fact, with the 2014 Election Code, which was drawn up with my active participation, such an opportunity existed.. people chose the mayors of small towns. Now they are appointed by municipal mayors and this makes the connection with the closest representative of power for the people in small towns extremely difficult. In addition, they are used for pressure on voters and pressure on all uncomfortable Bulgarian citizens. We propose that there be an appeal against all decisions of the Central Election Commission. We have witnessed an arbitrariness carried out by her. We propose that this never happen again. We offer the introduction of video surveillance and the possibility of online broadcasting the counting of sectional ballots by advocates, observers and candidates for election positions. We provide this path through an explicit legal norm for observers and advocates to be present at the transmission of the sectional protocols to the regional election committees. The shameful case by the "Arena Armeec" should no longer happen when in the dark, without the possibility of observers, by decision of the majority in the RIK no intercessors, observers and candidates for MPs were granted access to the ballots. There must be transparency, publicity and full control of the way the selection protocols are adopted and of the way they are finally inserted into the information system. We hope, except in the Central Election Commission, which failed, which is a disgrace to the way it organised these elections [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] , relevant changes should also be made to the service as politically involved individuals with the power they have lost trust should not be headed by this authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. To present the second bill of Hristo Ivanov, Antoaneta Tsoneva and Ivaylo Mirchev? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! Colleagues, there was a referendum on e-voting in 2015. Then 2 million Bulgarians, nearly 2 million Bulgarians supported it and expressed their vote to be able to vote over the Internet. The National Assembly, with great efforts then of the Initiative Committee, was able to adopt in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Election Code the possibility to vote electronically. At the time, colleagues and I made a lot of efforts to convince the majority of MPs, including some of them, are here among you, and that was in 2016, colleagues five years ago! Five years ago we had the technical opportunity to make an electronic vote, to be able Bulgarian citizens to vote electronically to do this gesture and what we owe to Bulgarians abroad. But that didn't happen. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] It didn't happen, Mr. Hamid, as you call it, because you hit the electronic vote. You spanked him the way you spanked all the good things that could have happened in this country. What happened in 2019? Firstly, in 2018, the European Parliament made it very clear that it was possible to vote electronically in the European elections to the European Parliament. A year later, by order of Mr. Borisov, the electronic vote was cancelled after the CEC itself refused to do anything in the direction of its realization. Unfortunately, and to date, five years later, we still do not have an electronic vote, although technologically we are ready. The same Mr. Borisov took part today, colleagues, with a lifestyle from Bankya and said that only he was experienced and he could make an e-vote this was from this morning, you must have seen it. And Mr. Borisov lied again because he has been doing e-voting and e-voting in Bulgaria ever since 2011, colleagues. On the other hand, colleagues, we have been voting electronically for three years in "Yes," Bulgaria, without giving a penny, while you spent 2 billion. lv. for electronic voting and for electronic management. We've been voting electronically for three years. We offered to give the state the e-voting system.... our state refused. Now, colleagues, we propose, and we hope that this error will be corrected, you as lawmakers will do your job and support the bill we propose for an electronic vote. It is open-source, that is to say, it allows all the concerns that parties have, from a controlled vote, from the possibility of making many SIM cards, their use in bad practices -- that all of this can be verified, that an independent audit of the system itself can be carried out, that you or your non-governmental organizations can hire computer experts or scientists and cybersecurity experts to carry out an independent audit of the system itself. This thing in the Law is foreseen. We intend to be able to vote seven days, with the vote itself ending three days before the election day itself. This is very key because it gives security to the process and gives peace to all institutions in the chain. It is very important that only the last exercise vote applies. That is, the mass practice of a corporate vote that is happening at the moment can very easily be surrounded when we give an example of 100 workers in one enterprise, take their ID cards, someone votes with them, but the worker, when he comes home at night, colleagues, can vote again with his own ID card and exercise his real vote, not the one his employer imposed on him. The electronic vote is not a panacea for all the electoral problems we have at the moment, but it will as a minimum ignore the possibility of MPs walking around with ballot bags in the Central Election Commission. The electronic vote will reduce the possibility of corporate and bought vote because, colleagues, you do not know when in a certain Mir you want to exercise a certain amount of votes, you do not know how many of them will come electronically. So we suggest that you support our bill. It is made by all good practices. In the Estonian system, from which we have basically copied the technology itself to work, this thing, colleagues, has already worked for nearly 15 years, in which we in Bulgaria explain that there can be no e-voting, it is dangerous, it is not good to exercise. Colleagues, by the way, in your favorite Putinova Russia, there is also already an electronic vote over the Internet. [[(Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov:]] And another very important argument for the e-vote, fellow Members. We hope to meet support in your face and hope this time to repay this debt to the Bulgarians abroad, because it is very difficult to vote there, sometimes traveling to the sections 250 km. We thank you and hope for your support. [[Applause from ICN and ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u49	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. From the Political Party GERB who presents the bill? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Bulgarian citizens! The bill proposed by GERB-SDS parliamentary group provides for a change of electoral system from proportional to majority system in elections for MPs and for a Grand National Assembly. We predict the elections in the Republic of Bulgaria to be produced by majority electoral system registered in one-sided electoral districts with approximately the same population according to the updated data from the National Statistical Institute. Historically, the majority electoral system is the older electoral system. In most countries with majority electoral system elections are one-sided, only one candidate is elected in one electoral area. This system is mostly available in one-sided areas. The state territory is divided into constituencies, in most cases equal by population, in each of which one representative is elected. In the majority system by an absolute majority, the selected candidate must receive more than half of all the actual votes in order to be elected. In the majority election with two rounds, if none of the candidates has received an absolute majority in the first vote, a second round shall be held which allows the two candidates with the most votes from the first round. The proposed changes aim to realise the opportunity for election participants to raise personalities for candidates who have high professional and moral qualities and are acceptable to society. The advantage of the majority electoral system is its understanding, with candidates for MPs more closely related to the regional and social needs and problems of their voters. In this system, the person of the candidate as a representative of the National Assembly comes to the fore. Their application is largely determined not by party ideology and belonging but by their personal qualities. That is why politicians will seek to maintain the confidence of their voters throughout the mandate of implementing the powers. Majority systems allow for easier demand for responsibility from the candidates concerned when their policy is contrary to the interest of their voters. We predict for the elections the country's territory to be divided into 234 one-mandated electoral regions in the country with approximately the same population and 6 one-mandated electoral regions outside the country, with the names, borders and numbering of the multi-mandated and one-mandated electoral regions being determined by the President of the Republic no later than 56 days before the election day. We also foresee that the regional election commission will consist of 13 members, including a chairman, vice-presidents and a secretary, proposed by the parliamentary parties and coalitions. All 240 candidates for MPs will be eligible for registration by only one party, coalition or initiative committee and only one single election area. A majority candidate promoted by one party, coalition or initiative committee may not be included on another party's candidate list or coalition or promoted by another initiative committee. One of the main highlights of the majority system is the region of the country of 234 one-sided electoral districts. With the Bill it is proposed that within one month before the first elections for MPs under the majority electoral system, Bulgarian citizens living outside the Republic of Bulgaria should be able to submit applications for active registration for voting outside the country. It will be carried out through the website of the Central Election Commission. In the application the voter will enter in Bulgarian his name by passport, military card or ID card, his single civil number and permanent address in the Republic of Bulgaria. The voter shall enter in Cyrillic or Latin at present address, residence address in the country concerned and place outside the country in which he wishes to vote and be listed on the electoral list. The conditions and procedures for carrying out the active registration will be laid down by the Central Election Commission. We believe that the main advantage of the majority system is that it would help increase confidence in the activities of the National Assembly. It will implement the sovereign's right to directly elect MPs. Last but not least, we believe that this is the wish of 2.5 million Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Hadjigenov is not in the room, so I'm opening the discussion. The time of parliamentary groups, I recall: GERB 30 minutes without extension, ICN 22, BSP 20, DPS 15, DB 14, ISV 10. The lines and procedures enter into time. Are you ready to make statements? Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! The debate on electoral legislation is always very long, very intense, everyone has different ideas. We also had the opportunity to have this debate in the previous National Assembly, to receive a lot of criticism, including from parties, and the president, who, even before the elections were held, accused us almost of falsifying them. Now we see that everyone here seems to have acknowledged the results of the election as we stand in this room and debate. Since there is a new parliamentary majority in this Parliament, and we are already in a situation of opposition, and of constructive opposition, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I will tell you that we will participate constructively in this debate, we will try to tell you where we have concerns about your proposals, but at the end, during the vote, we will support all your proposals, because you are now the people who need to decide what the electoral process should be. If there is a caretaker government, the President will be responsible for his organization. You have our support for all your proposals and from now on you will, of course, bear the responsibility for how the electoral process will happen, how the law will be applied and how the parliamentary elections will take place, and the President, of course. So I hope this debate is really constructive. We will have colleagues who will speak and ultimately make electoral legislation better than it is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u53	Are there lines? Mr. Hadjigenov, you can't present the bill. You've been through the presentation. You may speak in the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u54	A statement on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u55	Yeah, but before that, are there any other parliamentary groups that go before ISV? [[Noise and lines: "He will speak in the time of the group. "]] I won't. He'll be speaking in the band's time. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please excuse the misunderstanding, but GERB ended too quickly, literally before they started, which did not allow me to be able to present the short bill which was tabled on behalf of... [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov: "Have you stayed in the hall! "]] Thank you, Mr. Bikov. You're very kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u57	Speaking of which, Mr. Hadjigenov, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u58	Thank you, Madam President. What the group of MPs is proposing, with me in charge, is the annulment of a single member of the Election Code, namely Art. 158 of the Election Code, which introduces illegal ban on groups of Bulgarian citizens to participate in the electoral process. This prohibition exists once in art. 6, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as in the fundamental rights......................................................................................... 57 introduced into the Constitution, as well as contrary to the UN Civil and Political Rights Pact in art. 25. This is about the following thing, a ban has been introduced in the Election Code for the participation of soldiers, employees of SANS and magistrates. The concerns that have been expressed to the Legal Commission are completely unspoken.................... all Bulgarian soldiers will rush to participate in the electoral process as electors, this is within the framework of the fun and I do not think it necessary to comment on it, but they should have such a right. I would like to draw attention to everyone that, in fact, the number of servicemen is below 24,000, about 55,000 is the uniformed staff of the Ministry of Interior. I don't think any of them would have applied, although in the last 30 years such practice has been known. In fact, the main problem arises with magistrates. Worries arise, you see, magistrates can't judge justice. Most of you are not familiar with legal practice in fact what it looks like in a courtroom. All magistrates have the dignity, each one of them, because being a judge is not the same as being a prosecutor, I deliberately set an example, since the last chief prosecutors have no legal dignity, judges even at the lowest level have one, that is, they will be taken if they see even a hint of conflict of interest. Next, participation in the electoral process is public. 2021 we are currently, which means that there is no way that the parties in a process do not know that a judge has taken part in an election process as a candidate and there is a potential conflict of interest. Finally, the introduction of a double standard... In fact, excuse me, a positive example in this regard is the candidacy of Judge Nelly Kutzkova. She's law enforcement to the day of a magnificent judge. He was a multiple participant in an election process. And double standard - specific example specifically for GERB - judge from Yambol District Court - Atanasov, elected as MP, is currently a judge of the Constitutional Court. Somehow...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u59	Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u60	Is it Anastasov? Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. Anastasov, I made a lapsus. The judge in question, Anastasov, somehow manages to rule, is somehow pronounced by texts of GERB and somehow there is no conflict of interest. Great example of double standard. In other words, magistrates should be able to participate in those who want to be elected. And I will give you a purely practical benefit. I am observing the work of fellow lawyers at the last few national meetings and, I assure you, every National Assembly has an introspective need for the presence of practitioners who take out their bread in a courtroom. And as far as we lawyers are well represented, relatively well in parliament, magistrates are not. And they should be because we all in the legislative process need the specific look of a magistrate, his knowledge in the courtroom. This to happen at present means that every magistrate loses his job. There is no reason for this to happen and we need to give the magistrates the opportunity to participate, to contribute to each Parliament in the norm-making work and then to be able to return to their work as magistrates, because judges, specifically and magistrates, work in the interests of society. We're doing something similar here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u61	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, MPs! I will begin with the words of the famous political scientist, Professor Arend Leipzig, who says that the electoral system is an essential element of representative democracy. It is no accident that international standards and the Code of Good Practices on Election Issues, their Guidelines and the explanatory report, as well as all the opinions of international organisations indicate that key elements of elections, such as electoral systems and the outline of electoral areas, should not be made less than one year before elections. Here I would like to state the opinion of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" that we are for a majority electoral system, as Bulgarian citizens wished, but not in this way. What is offered by the MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS is not serious "so electoral system is not done, and I will give you a few examples. First of all, it is not clear in the draft which committee will be responsible, which will register the initiative committees for the electoral regions outside the country, who will announce the result, who will register the candidate lists of parties, coalitions and initiative committees. 31 electoral committees are provided, but there is no response with regard to the electoral authority and the competent committee for electoral districts outside the country. Not only that, but it is foreseen that the system has an absolute majority of two tails. So far, so good. But I ask: since the votes are not excluded, I do not support anyone who are real voices, how will the absolute majority be achieved in the second round? There's no way to do this, guys. Third, it is envisaged that in the framework of 31 regional electoral committees 234 single-mandated electoral regions should be formed. There's no way that this is a nonsense to form electoral districts in regional committees. This suggests that it was taken by the local electoral system where you have multi-branded areas and the one-sided areas are formed within the multi-branded areas, but this is a completely different concept. In fourth place, it is proposed that the names, the boundaries of the electoral regions be carried out by the President of the Republic. That's a very strange decision, colleagues. I want to ask you: how will the President of the Republic outline the boundaries of the electoral districts? We all know the famous example of 1812 in Massachusetts, the so-called gerrymandering, where the electoral regions thus outline that Republicans remain a minority. The main element of the electoral system is to outline the boundaries of the electoral regions, subject to the principle that the weight of the votes by which one MP is elected in one region must be approximately equal to the weight of the votes in another election area. There is no answer to these questions here in this bill. According to International Standards, it is necessary to establish an independent body, a judicial authority, which has access to all statistics: internal, external migration. It needs to be reviewed at all and how election areas will be defined outside the country because, you know, and I don't understand how this bill offers six single-sided electoral regions outside the country. I guess, colleagues, that's what I told the Legal Committee, you threw the dice and it just fell to the number six. I don't know if you have any data on how many Bulgarian citizens live outside the country? We also bothered to request information from what we collected, according to Eurostat data, according to data from Bulgarian citizens living in Turkey, according to data from the Ministry of Regional Development for Bulgarian citizens with current address in the country, the number of Bulgarian citizens living outside the country amounts to over a million and a half. How did you define these six mandates for a million and a half Bulgarian citizens? There very carefully should be reviewed the criteria and taken into account as Bulgarian citizens with current address; as Bulgarian citizens with submitted applications for sedentary; as turnout in previous elections; as geographical features. One of the main requirements and one basic international standard is that the deviation in the electoral regions does not exceed 15 per cent. That's the kind of thing we don't find in the Bill either. Next, the president is also scheduled to determine the multi-mandated electoral regions. I would like to ask you: what multi-manded election areas are there in a majority electoral system? This seems to be left behind again by a mixed system that you used as a basis. Next, a colleague from the Legal Commission asked a question: what is going on with a deputy elected minister? There was no response. In the Bill, what is proposed is that the term of office of the MP should be terminated, but there is a constitutional text and art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the Constitution is adamant that we have a break in the authority of the MP, that is, if we go to a partial choice and the people representative is elected to replace the minister and then, we have an example in the previous parliament, two ministers of justice are gone. What's going on with them? What choice is more important and is of paramount importance when both of them have made direct choices? The first, second, answer does not exist. Absolutely unconstitutional. So, colleagues, when changes are made in the electoral system, time is needed, it is necessary to know the system, it is necessary for specialists to give their opinion, and not for the electoral system to be written overnight. And here I would like to remind one of the words of a French critic Emil Fage, who in 1900, says that: "It takes a lot of attention to turn the old root into a fragile blade, that is, the fundamental thing for the legislator is the discretion of writing the laws. Here we see an absolutely unreasonable electoral system, ignorance of international standards and ignorance of the electoral system and the majority system as a whole. With regard to the proposal for the establishment of electoral registers. I would like to say that a full audit of the electoral lists is really needed, but this should also be done after careful discussion. This issue has been raised since 2014, but this model, which is currently being proposed to us, with the start of the lists of Bulgarian citizens who voted in elections, I do not think it will give the necessary result. Because a major criticism again of all international organisations, including in the preliminary findings of the 4 April elections, is, again, about adding to the election day to the electoral lists. Thus made the electoral lists using the Bulgarian citizens who voted in the elections will be even bigger. So here the basic principle is that the electoral registers are permanent, that they are reviewed annually, that there is judicial control, that the references are limited, but once again we need a very deep and serious legislative solution. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. For lines? How many lines? [[Replying from the hall: Three, we can do four.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u64	Three. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u65	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Rupcheva, I have listened with great attention and respect your quotes, your exhibition. I was under the impression that in 2017 we from GERB wanted the majority system and we made the referendum?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Two and a half million Bulgarian citizens wanted this majority system. Mr. Yordanov wanted another evening to be brought into the Chamber to be considered to introduce this majority system. Yes, we have made an offer then and now we are doing it again with a call to support us because you seem to be hiding that there was no zoning, that we have given the president the zoning to do so. However, because we also read, although some try to say that we do not read so much, we found on the site of the Slavi Show. There he is, colleagues. [[Shows a list of the zoning.]] You have a pre-arranged area, and I don't see what the problem is? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And we will also enter it at second reading because we need to know who is running away from responsibility? Who goes into politics to lie, just to sit on the parliamentary banks. We from GERB submitted the majority vote and you know that at first reading is only the philosophy of the Law. We have plenty of time to implement this zoning and really complement the vote majority, as it is by all rules. You're going to tell us who did this zoning so we know his authors. I know who they are and I respect them. Here, Mr. Nankov will tell us, because he's also in the loop. I respect the people who did this and I believe you, and we believed you in 2017. I don't know what you're afraid of?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u66	The weather, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u67	Why didn't you think this through earlier?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u68	The weather, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u69	We will submit it and continue to insist on your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u70	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u71	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u72	Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u73	Mrs. Chairman! Mrs. Miteva, first of all, I very much respect you both as a professional and as an expert and thank you for your exhibition. Regarding what you said you didn't give up the introduction of the majority electoral system because you didn't have time and because laws shouldn't be written overnight. Basically, yes, you're right. They must be very well thought out and subjected to a broad public discussion. But Mr. Slavi Trifonov's referendum was held at the end of 2016 and the main motive for the creation of the party "There is such a people" was emphasized precisely to respect the role of sovereign. Here you are in Parliament now, you are being trusted, you have been given second place, and you are being asked to be held accountable with a clear programme and vision of governance, which we have not yet seen. But let me get back to your exposure. You had over four years to prepare a bill, which, as soon as the people voted your trust and your voters to submit to parliament [[Applause from GERB SDS]] And you're importing a PID in which there's no order since the introduction of a majority electoral system. And let me remind Mr. Yordanov's words in the transmission of the Slavi Show of February 18, 2019, "Why are the rulers afraid of the majority vote? Why are you afraid of the majority vote? Why didn't you introduce amendments to the Election Code related to the majority vote and justify yourself with a lack of time and a lack of majority? You have both, but promises do not work, you need action and responsibility. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u74	The third line is Mr. Georgiev. There are three lines. [[Replying from the hall: Why didn't you ask?]] I asked them to raise their hands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u75	Thank you, Madam President, for the objective conduct. Dear Mrs. Miteva, I, too, have listened to and respected the pathos with which you presented your bill, but I was impressed by a contradiction. On some recommendations of the Venice Commission you take attitude and respect them that the electoral legislation should not change at the last moment, but on others you should not. With regard to the majority vote, you say: 'It is not the last minute', but on other extremely important topics of the Election Code, such as the way it will be voted, it does not seem to you that time is short enough again. Secondly, when we are talking about the majority vote, we need to remember that this is indeed a very old proposal that you are saying today: "It can't be done in one day! " - But in speeches your leader Stanislav Trifonov said only a few months ago or a year ago that it can be done today for tomorrow! And what changed? Your pre-political period and the show, which gradually became a party today, changed its mind repeatedly. Changed it in a direction that changed the main political message that your party is in this Parliament. What you came with on the wings of change was precisely the majority vote. Majority vote, which I dare say you've had even more than four years to prepare. Today you are talking about defects that some major electoral systems give, but remember that these majority electoral systems are in one round first. Secondly, established democracies, which produce majority elections, re-region every 10 years, precisely in order not to take into account the defects that you mentioned yourself. And these are already axiomatic in political science theories and movements that you could borrow when you were drawing up your bill, but you don't even have that ready. Currently from this tribune you are trying to make the suggestion that almost a majority electoral system is a whim of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u76	The weather, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u77	It's almost the ones who promised the majority vote, but it's not your vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u78	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u79	I'm coming, Madam President. The promises of political parties are the wings on which they come, but they also go away. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u80	Here you are, Mrs. Miteva. [[Heckling]] There's a hole, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u81	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Regarding international standards, clearly in them, if you have read them, it says exactly what elements of the elections cannot be changed a year. They do not apply absolutely to everything related to the electoral process. Yes, these are the electoral system, this is the outline of the boundaries of the electoral regions, because they are the essence and core of the entire electoral process. It is up to them how the votes will be distributed, it is up to them what the political ratio in the country will be and who will govern. Therefore, there is a strong opinion of all international organisations. This is not only written and is recommended in many constitutions, even to other countries, when changing such essential elements and a high majority. That is, for example, there are even two third qualified majority in Hungary and Slovenia to change these elements. Not only is it a strong requirement that election systems are not changed for upcoming parliamentary elections. I mean, always in one choice. So I said, on behalf of our parliamentary group, we will not give in to populism. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I beg you very much, for silence! With regard to the electoral system, I would like to draw attention to the fact that after the referendum in 2016, GERB tried to submit two decisions to the National Assembly, which are unknown why they dropped off the agenda of Parliament and the Legal Committee. Not only that, she also submitted a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, which is unknown why it is not considered again. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Two thousand and seventeen years, yes, at the beginning of the term of office was tabled, but with full awareness that it will not be accepted. That is, this populism does not belong to us, Mrs. Karayancheva, because you have also imported an electoral area out of the country. You yourself voted against your proposal to be rejected in plenary and supported the proposal of the DPS and BSP. There are shorthands and there is a vote. So what we are going to do is in the transitional provisions of our proposed bill, if adopted, we will clearly write that the proportional electoral system for MPs will be applied until the next regular parliamentary elections. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] In this way, we want to start making a new kind of electoral system. We will offer the majority electoral system as it has been accepted. [[Applause from IHN.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. The word was requested by Mrs. Capon, Mr. Vassilev and Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u83	I wanted the previous statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u84	You have group time, but your line... Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u85	I'm gonna go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I say simple speaking is understandable. Isn't that right? Yes, we initiated a referendum on changing the electoral system. Yeah, he was successful. Yeah, a huge part of this room, from here on out, got him beat up in parliament, pretending to be crazy that it didn't happen and playing with 12,000 fake voices, including this 10 right here across the street. Yes, we have created a party. There is such a people in order to introduce a majority electoral system in two rounds, reducing the party subsidy to one lev [[Applause from IHN]] , e-vote, mandatory vote. We want to ask people about reducing MPs to 120, because these 240, among which we are sitting, is a pathetic story. We want people to choose the police chiefs directly. Some of the things we need to ask them because thanks to that thing that was your president, these things went to the Constitutional Court and then he stopped them. Now we have choices that have passed. You know what the ratio is, you know that before the elections we said that we and the parties from the status quo will not do. You know how many votes of those who are not from the parties of the status quo. You know how many our voices are. You know how you can support us, but you know that you are against the majority electoral system in two rounds. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I'll explain it to you quietly and easily. What's next in front of us? There are two options, and you're infinitely aware of them, whatever circus you're playing. Either this parliament goes to early elections, or it will have a long life. The likelihood of early elections is enormous. [[Heckling]] It's huge! What kind of approach could be on our part? Let's put in the Law on Majority Elections, which all of us and you know that there is a need for discussion and it needs at least one year, because this zoning that you showed it, we did it four years ago. It is no longer up to date, and it is objectively not up to date, nor is there a population census, no one will know how many Bulgarians live in the relevant areas, including how many live abroad, in which countries and their concentration. So there's no crazy person I guess who thinks that this thing can be done at once and that you shouldn't pass the census. So, what's the hypothesis?! If there are early elections and go to them under your insane Election Code...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u86	Yeah, but you won!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u87	Please, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u88	Yeah, we won second place. Yeah, the truth is, there was forgery, there was fear, there was pressure. The truth is, we haven't been through fair elections. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Let me finish my thought. From our perspective, if you go to early elections, there must be a corrected Election Code. The person who is currently acting must be corrected so as to be as honest as possible. If this Parliament has a long life, then we talk calmly about changing the electoral system, but no one knows which will happen. That is why we want this Election Code, which we propose, to finally record that the next regular parliamentary elections will be majority so that this thing can be worked out. But if it comes to an early one, which, as you know, is very likely, we cannot afford to work on this crappy, incompetent and harmful Election Code that we currently have, so we approach practically. I understand that it is better for you to discuss a majority electoral system for a year and a half, to have some government and you to be skinny here in Parliament. We have no desire to give you this time. [[Noise and lines.]] If it comes to early elections [[Applause from IHN]] If it comes to early elections, they must be as honest as possible. So this bullshit about refusing the majority electoral system, and it's just from you, who, like Eva very well reminded you what circus you were doing in the front parliaments, bringing in and out, do it, but you don't have to do it. Is it clear now what our position is? If there are early elections, there must be a new Election Code and we must be ready for it. If there is not, in this one we introduce that the next will be majority and we work as long as this parliament lives to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u89	- What's the line? [[People from GERB-SDS raise their hand.]] You have four people who understand each other. [[Heckling]] Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, I very much hope that in the first real discussion on the substance of bills we will not yell at each other like in a stadium to hear our arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u90	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yordanov, you were extremely clear and accurate in your speech. We found out all along that you've been lying all along. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Now I want you to tell me: when exactly do you expect there to be regular parliamentary elections? Because I will remind you that the last regular parliamentary elections before the last were in 2009, the next were in 2021. By 2030, will there be regular parliamentary elections to introduce your majority system and will you drive in this string by then with the majority elections?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] You need to understand something else and the government is not doing to be happy here we are, but to have someone to manage the state in a difficult situation. That's what government is for, if you don't understand! Don't play us for our fun, or Vash! It is done because of the Bulgarians who voted you responsible on this issue. Today or tomorrow, you will get the mandate most likely to make a government and fulfill the commitments you have made to the people. Otherwise, you'd be lying. And those who lie, you know very well what people call them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u91	Second line? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. Dear Mrs. Doncheva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly and all those who have been taught in the last year, while being formed, to speak to them simply! With a very unpleasant feeling I am going out today on the stand, because I was also a representative of an initiative committee, which gathered over 4600 signatures in support of the idea of having a majority vote, 1 BGN. subsidy. I realize today that regardless of the motives we had at that time, those who initiated the first referendum on this subject did not have enough honorable intentions, and I will explain why. Because you have had enough time just as precise and thorough, as you have prepared the amendments to the Election Code, which you have submitted to us today, to prepare a law for majority choice. Enough time, and with the clear consciousness of people who have come to take power. If that's what you really wanted, you could have done it. I am extremely interested in why we need to debate today the issue should there be or should there not be a majority vote? (BG) On the condition that the Bulgarian citizens have spoken on this issue and we should have respect for what they have asked for. The procedure is clear, however, when they do not reach the votes, a bill is tabled and is dealt with by the National Assembly. In this National Assembly, I guess it's not just finished products that come in. Every bill that has mistakes and flaws...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u93	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u94	...can be processed and reworked if there is, of course, willpower and majority. I'm done! The will and the majority must belong to all of us who are here. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u95	Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, you are experienced parliamentarians. I know there's no clock in the front, but you've got watches on your hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I have learned from Mr. Yordanov's statement except, of course, cynicism and insults that do not go to a representative because we are not on a show. We are in the National Assembly and people have sent us and voted trust so that we can adopt laws that improve their well-being. What I have learned from your speech, what you cannot do, and in fact just some naked excuses. You had all the time at your disposal so that you could respect the will of the sovereign who trusted you during the referendum. Today or tomorrow you will receive the mandate. You should be responsible, that's why you're here. It's easy to write a script, it's easy to criticize, but it's very difficult to take responsibility, and you have to take it, because that's how the Constitution gave you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u97	The hole, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u98	I'll try to be quick, there's a lot of talking going on. Mr. Bikov, you're the one who's talking about lying. I'm giving you confidence! [[Applause from IHN.]] As for the government, it's touching how you're all forcing us to make a government. You know that there is a stable government when you have a majority in the Chamber. I speak either your MPs or coalition partners. The other is a minority government. This circus we've seen with you, with your ex crutches, crutches, canes or whatever you choose, it's an ugly job. What are we going to do? When Radev gives us the mandate, you'll see. Relax. There's only a few days left. Don't freak out. Mrs. Kirova. I am extremely happy and want to thank the parliamentary group of GERB for being with them and not with us. [[Applause from IHN.]] Just to let you know that you have a man who, according to colleagues from "Bivol" because they have been digging into the trading companies, is a partner with the Kosovo drug lord Ismet Osmani. Congratulations, people! God bless you! [[Applause from IHN.]] As far as cynicism is concerned. I didn't say cynicism this time and last time I didn't say, and that you didn't understand what I said means that I didn't speak simple enough, which is my fault. I'm sorry. And lastly, for writing scripts. I guess you're good. Welcome! We need writers. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN. National Representative Rositsa Kirova wants a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u99	It's 11.25. For a personal explanation, I'll give you the floor. I suggest I give you the rest, then disinfect the department. [[Noise and lines.]] It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u100	It's a personal explanation. It was not a line, it was a statement by Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u101	No, it was a douche. That was the hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u102	Do we have consent to a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u103	You're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u104	First of all, I don't think it's necessary to explain myself to a man who hasn't planted a tree in his life, for starters. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and ITN.]] Secondly, I am extremely glad that I am not part of those who come to work in order and are forbidden to speak. [[Applause from IHN and cheering: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u105	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u106	And to whom I am a partner, Mr. Yordanov, is evident from the trade records and is not secret information. I have done nothing criminal and reprehensible in my life and that you, according to your views and your stature, judge some things, is, of course, your personal choice. I do not think it is necessary today for the National Assembly to deal with this. And I really hope to see you in court. [[Applause from IHN and cheering: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u107	I'll give you 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u108	We're continuing the hearing. Mr. Glauchev will have the floor, but are there any other speeches to sort them out? On the left side of the room, I didn't see any maracles until now. Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you. I didn't leave the gym in the break so I wouldn't miss my turn, even though I'm human, but my procedure is the way I conduct myself. I've never abused procedures. I ask you very much to apply the Rules of Procedure. It must be easier to write than to read, but it's characteristic of hammers. So it's nice to read first and then write, because otherwise there are vices that are very easily visible. There are texts in the Rules that are precisely in terms of this kind of speech, which we have just witnessed. If we go to call, though former presidents, someone might be able to say about the one who is, it's nothing, theoretically. This should not be allowed in any way, it should be intersected in the embryo such speaking. To also offend the entire public representation with the expression "Idiots" is also described what the President of the sitting, who is in charge of the meeting, should take. I can help you in this regard so you don't waste any time. Art. 1 (1) (a) Article 156 162 different cases and hypotheses are described. By the way, that kind of talk was for art. 162, para. 1, t. 1. Maybe you're experiencing some fear of what happened to me using this article, but I assure you it's not scary. So, I call on you, use the options in the Rules if you choose.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u110	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u111	Yeah, that was enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u112	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u113	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u114	Of course I can impose penalties, but I also had to impose punishment on MPs from different parliamentary groups. Allow me, in my own style, to ask you to rise above punishments and self-control, which I believe will contribute to increasing the general authority of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u115	We support you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u116	Otherwise, I thank you for finding out for yourself that MPs from different parliamentary groups have admitted a tone and a statement that may not be the most clever, sublime and upstanding of parliament, but I think that colleagues will draw their own conclusions without taking the role of a trainer. For speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr. Radomir Cholakov. Mrs. Capon and Mr. Georgiev follow the orders.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I suppose we have forgotten and it is good to recall that the Library of this building has kept the minutes of the National Assembly meetings since 1879. I'm telling this to my colleagues in this part of the room because they're new, and they probably don't know it, or they've forgotten it. In these protocols you can read statements of people like Konstantin Stoilov, such as Petko Karavelov, like Alexander Malinov, who spoke on this platform, and I do not know if we feel the responsibility of standing on this platform, what shoes we are walking in. And I ask you very much to read how these people talked about the state, how they thought about the state and how they only thought about the state and not about themselves and their party accounts. Speaking of the Election Code, we're not talking about party accounts, we're talking about the state, about the constitution of the state and about its stability. Mrs. Miteva made a very broad statement about how complicated the introduction of the majority system is, how complex a question is, how many subquests arise and how it should be viewed from all possible angles, from all possible countries. And that neither in one night, nor in one month, nor in one year, the people's representation can change the electoral system so sharply that it from proportional to majority. All risks must be taken into account, all points of view must be heard, and this must indeed be done in a very long and very calm debate. And now I'm going to come out of the tone of our ancestors who stood on this stand, which I apologize very much for, and all the while I remember a very old joke about the animals that flew on the plane and started pressing the buttons. The gargat asked them, "What are you doing?"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Several bills have been tabled by the new parties in parliament, with which it is very demanding that an electronic remote vote and vote be introduced in the mail immediately overnight. Colleagues, I beg you very much not to mess with the state. Mr. Hamid indicates for the post vote that it has definitely very great advantages, but it also has some very big shortcomings that give rise to fears. And these are that private companies will carry the bags of letters, will private companies count the ballots on the way as they carry them? It's called: the paper will be reduced. In the postal vote, the paper is increased four times.. There are one ballot and three envelopes. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]] The CEC will count the ballots in Bulgaria. How do you imagine this thing? How many million ballots will the CEC count? The embassies will count the ballots abroad. How does an embassy count two hundred or three hundred thousand ballots? How do we imagine these things?! Because that's what we've decided, because we're enjoying it. For the electronic remote vote. Is there anyone in this country who is not aware that this is not a safe vote, there is no certainty? [[Noise and lines.]] I won't, I won't! Is there anyone who is not aware that there are hackers in the country, and especially outside the country, who are just waiting for us to introduce an electronic remote vote? I would like to say that even if we discuss these changes, it will not happen overnight, not in a week, not in a month, not in a year, and we will have to devote very serious attention to them, for which we will need a government, however. Yesterday, you repealed with a Transitional provision the possibility of conducting public discussions on the legislation tabled so far. I think that we should all specifically insist that these projects be subjected, no matter what the Rules say, to an extremely long and serious public discussion. The colleague Slavov proposed yesterday his proposal was, of course, from other groups, to set up an advisory council on legislation within five months. If you intend to deal in detail with the so submitted proposals for electronic votes and postal votes, I insist that this Council be created immediately and that it be attracted to the biggest specialists in Bulgaria, because we cannot have ten people in this Chamber to determine the electoral system and to make thematic coalitions and to change the electoral law because we have decided and because we have promised so. Because, colleagues, we need to learn that we need to be careful what we promise. And if we haven't promised something we can deliver, next week is time for an apology, and it's good to apologize, anyone who has anything to apologize to their constituents. I agree with Mr Hamid that there are some minimally necessary amendments to the Election Code for which we can reach consensus and which may be accepted right now, but any other issues simply to postpone them because it is dangerous. I conclude by saying that those who stood on this stand and whose protocols we read were thinking about the state. I sincerely hope that there will be people after us who will read the minutes of today's National Assembly, and I am worried that if we continue with the same revolutionary spirit, there may be no one to read them. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u118	Thank you. A line? Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the right to a reply and later I will have the opportunity to make a statement, but in relation to the last and fears of the political party GERB. Gentlemen, an election code is not done with fear. An election code is made with honor and an election code is made with promises and commitments that we have made to our voters. I ask myself: where was your fear that the speaker spoke of when you promised to have an area? Then you weren't afraid, you promised, but shortly after that you turned around and closed it. Where was your fear when you promised to introduce an electronic vote? Shortly after that, however, you found procedural catch-ups. The fears of the Central Election Commission and of everyone else, and you canceled the electronic vote. In this room except for the electoral system and other than exchanging some, in fact, political agitators, because you have never promised to have a electoral system in two rounds, but you are importing such a bill without fear of it. So that's my line. Election code, Mr. Cholakov, is not done with fear. I absolutely agree it's done with expertise. I came out to remind you how your fears and fears have been tossing election rules back and forth all the time. But two very important things: you gave up the e-vote despite the results of the referendum, despite what was done in the Election Code, despite the change in the structure of the Central Election Commission to have a special unit to deal with this, and so on and so forth. Today we heard in the Prime Minister's favorite lifestyles that he knew how to make an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u120	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u121	Well, do it! [[Applause from DB and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u122	Any other lines? Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u123	Madam President, honourable Members! Five years ago, he drafted a bill for remote electronic voting, and it was tabled by several MPs, one of which is me. It's been five years, colleagues, there's no remote electronic voting. And I'm making a line to Mr. Cholakov with the following very important things. I won't, Mr. Cholakov, because you don't want there to be. You never wanted there to be. You've had five years. In those five years, if you wanted to have a remote electronic vote, it would have already been introduced. So don't tell me how there's no time. You had all the time in the world to do it for five long years, but you didn't just do it because you didn't want to have a high turnout. With the same motives you will not now vote in the mail, because this will dramatically increase the activity of over a million, a million and a half Bulgarians abroad will be able to vote, and you do not want that either. You just have to tell yourself that you and not only you, much of the status quo do not want an increase in voter turnout and therefore you do not want a remote electronic vote from the computer at home, and therefore you do not want a vote by mail for the same reason. And saying about the risks, check out how many European countries have a special vote in the mail. Recently, there were elections in Catalonia, which was precisely this method, under the conditions of a pandemic, was practiced. It was in the face of a pandemic that many European countries expanded the vote in the mail. I mean, what are you offering us? You're offering to keep the status quo, that's what you want. You say now there's no time. There hasn't been time before. There is never time for you, dear colleagues. Therefore, we need a new majority to support and pass all these texts, otherwise millions of people will not be able to vote. That's the problem. [[Applause from DB and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u124	Third line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! In the Bill of Stand Up! "All proposals, including for e-voting, for setting up a electoral area abroad, for active registration, for machine voting, have been made today, i.e. to be introduced in the next elections, regardless of when they will be held. We believe that if there is a desire and a political will, this can happen. We are witnessing how the MPs of GERB did their best in the previous parliament to postpone the electronic identification, including its postponement was through the Additional provisions in the Law on the Crossing of Armed Forces through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In any way... [[Reply.]] Yeah, take a look. In every way, everything was being done to thwart the electronic vote. Therefore, I call on all those who really are for the electronic vote to do so now with the changes to these electoral codes. Now.. including for the vote by post, including for the active registration. It's proof of sincerity, not intentions somewhere in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u126	A hole, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Mrs. Tsoneva said I was scared. Because Mrs. Tsoneva and I have known each other for many years, she knows very well that I am not afraid. It is not necessary to replace the words "responsibility" and "feeling responsible" with the word "fear." If I am not afraid, I assure you that the group of GERB is not afraid at all. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] For this reason, as the chairwoman of our group said at the beginning of the meeting, we will support all the bills, although we had different opinions during the Legal Commission. We will support them to give us a chance to look into the abyss. I'm telling you straight. We're not going into the debate right now, we're going to leave it between first and second readings. You know that elections were cast in Austria because of a postal vote. In Austria, an old democracy, one of the oldest! You know that in Estonia, which is constantly being talked about, there are constantly concerns about the electronic vote. And I don't understand why we have to do experiments right now? What is the political issue, fellow Members, is that if we are to discuss a serious amendment to the Election Code, we need a lot of time, which is why we need a government. If there is not going to be a government, let us accept the minimum necessary where there is consensus, to disband Parliament and to go to new elections, and to see who is afraid. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u128	Wait a minute, Mrs. Tsoneva, I didn't give you the floor. Mrs. Capon has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u129	For a personal explanation! [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u130	No, no, there's no personal explanation. Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Despite the Rules which have not yet entered into force, however, I declare, as regards whether or not meetings have been held and which interested parties have been held. My speech is on behalf of the National Association of Mayors of City Halls in the Republic of Bulgaria, with which we from the National Association of Mayors of the Republic of Bulgaria! We had a special meeting, we made a commitment to them. Changing the electoral threshold of 350 per 100 people will make it possible for those living in settlements to raise for candidates individuals who have high professional and moral qualities and are acceptable to society. With the implementation of this change, we will respond to our commitment as a Member State of the European Union to ensure respect for democratic standards. At your disposal, colleagues, on the part of the Association, there is both a study of the demographic process and the demographic picture in the settlements and public opinion. Therefore, you should keep in mind that we of.. Stand up! We have clearly set the threshold of 350 in our bill to be 100. Let us give the opportunity, and I hope that all colleagues in the Chamber, as we told them at the meeting with Mr. Yonchev, I am convinced that there is a parliamentary group of mayors of small town halls in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. For a statement? [[Heckling]] Okay. Mrs. Kirova. I remind the groups whose time is running out to ask for an extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u133	Dear Mrs. Doncheva, colleagues! With regard to the threshold, which is proposed to be reduced to 100 people, to elect mayors in small towns, I would like to draw attention to Mrs Capon that this issue has been a stage of exercise over the last 20 years of various governments and various parliamentary majorities in our country. It is used as a tool, which for one reason or another, often associated with quite populistic intentions, during the local elections gives priority to one political party, formation or public mood. In no case, however, should we forget what the mayor's function is in a locality with 100 residents in the list of people enrolled in the electoral order. What can this mayor do that does not have a budget that does not have an instrument that has no administrative capacity to serve the respective settlement by his own means, speak to him under law, and what is the point of actually changing? It was also 600 people, it was 350, it was once 100, it was returned to 350 again, don't you think there should finally be stability of legislation in this regard so that people can know how the respective settlements develop and have predictability in what is happening? Reducing 100 people at this threshold is something that should be investigated quite seriously and discussed, therefore, because it has many other consequences that are related not only to the service of small towns, leads and raises questions about what happens if in the next elections...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u134	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u135	...the population of 100 has suddenly become 87?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u136	C'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon,
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u137	What's the difference between 100 and 105? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u138	C'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon,
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u139	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u140	Please, the watch is here. Second line? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u141	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Capon, you are not right that this is a new proposal for the election of the mayors of small towns with over 100 inhabitants, because such a proposal has been accepted and has been in force since 2014 in the Election Code, in which I actively participated, and showed... So here are analyzes, estimates, tests. Yes, it is a good solution that people who live in small towns welcome. And perhaps this was the reason Mrs. Kirova's leader promised to the small mayors that the MPs from GERB would support the election in small towns with more than 100 people. But perhaps she has not followed her leader carefully, and that is why it is now declared against a decision that is expected of Bulgarian citizens. In addition, dear Mrs Capon, you neglected to say that we also offer funding to the number of residents in the small settlement to be provided through the municipal budget. [[(Reply from GERB: The promises are free, people!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u142	Thank you. A hole, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the settlements in Bulgaria are 4818. At a threshold of 100 people at a permanent address in the local elections in 2015 3187 settlements took place. Compared to 2019, when the threshold was increased, this, because of the sustainability of the legislation, of 350 people, the right to choose their mayor had 2003 settlements, and 270 660 people living in 1184 mayorships were deprived of the right to choose. A little information you might have. Look, we're not doing an investigation. The investigation is in the Trade Register and elsewhere who does what, Mrs. Kirova. What we do is we examine the numbers, the exchange that there is, and I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u144	You haven't tested properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u145	Mrs. Manolova, that's right, that was also the commitment that we made on behalf of you! We assumed that we would not let the mayors of the mayors be subjected to anything by the great mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u146	It's Mr. Georgiev's word for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u147	Abuse of a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u148	Okay. The word is Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u149	Madam President, honourable Members! The middle part of the room, if the first days were dismayed and could not find a place, has apparently gained self-confidence and is pleased to see how others are struggling to solve the problems they have created. Because it was they who mutilated the machine voting purposefully and consistently. It is they who have created much of the problems that we are currently trying to solve here. But a failure of the electoral process will not weigh on them, but on the new majority, however conditional it may be at the moment. That is why our responsibility and expectations are enormous. I'll start by saying that our horizon is the main theme. The elephant standing in the room is the date of the election. Because it's one thing to work with a horizon for two months, another is to work with a horizon for a year, we can do very different things, another is to have a horizon for four years. And since we're missing, we're already on the slope of populism, political overshadowing and election campaign. That's what we shouldn't allow and shouldn't do. We see that there are seven bills tabled. We at BSP are ready to submit seven more because last term we have worked them out, are ready to please our voters, with the clear awareness that they will be rejected probably, and attack, sew someone into some majority and say: behold, they do not accept our proposals. So maybe we can upload some of our election results and the others are able to do it. But failing the electoral process during a severe health and economic crisis means adding another political crisis and ruining the state. So, first of all, we say what we shouldn't do. And here the question is not what we want, we certainly want a lot of things, but what we can do. And the horizon, if it's two months, first of all, we need to see what we have consensus on, what we're thinking, what can happen right now. And these are several things that we have consistently defended and are ready with concrete solutions and developed texts. Video surveillance will undoubtedly strengthen confidence in the electoral process and attract more people to vote. The active registration of the topic which we have developed in detail in the previous Parliament and will provide it. Between first and second reading, we will not introduce seven bills with the clear awareness that they will not pass. We will do what is responsible for the state. Active registration, clearing of electoral lists will increase mandatory and significant confidence in the electoral process. We must no doubt work in this direction and if this Meeting with its unclear horizon succeeds in introducing an area of expertise, this will be a great success, however complicated and difficult, because several mandates outside mean to take several mandates inside, and this is a fundamental repainting of the election card in Bulgaria. This is a really big problem. It would be a great success if we could deal with her. In this sense, we are looking at the only procedurally possible solution, and it is to support one and the most complete and comprehensive election law and in it to make proposals between first and second readings. This is what we think is the election law of the "There is such a people" because many of the topics that we support are included in it, some that we do not support, but all the topics will find debate in this House. I also call on the others to support this bill of "There is such a people" and to make their proposals between first and second readings in order to be able to, in a short order, operationally in this House to find the best solutions. If we deal with them, perhaps this Parliament will have a longer horizon and will open a door to do more, but starting from this, we will start, we will take the first safe steps. Our call is not to succumb to populism, not to look for the cheap election campaign at the moment, to act responsibly and stately, because anything else would be a betrayal to Bulgaria at the moment. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u150	Ms. Tsoneva withdrew her request for a statement. Mr. Vassilev withdrew his request for a statement. That leaves Mr. Stykov and Mr. Zhivko Tabakov. Mr. Stykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u151	Madam President, honourable Members! For five days now, we have been listening to how we fear both elections and amendments to the Election Code, so we bear the insults of the right-wing Members of the Chamber. Colleagues, you seem to forget that GERB is the first political force and we are not afraid of elections! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, you seem to forget that the last elections held in Bulgaria won them political party GERB, with its prime minister and leader Boyko Borisov! [[Noise and lines on the left.]] And not because we manipulate, we fear, or we make other policies, because, ladies and gentlemen on the right, we stand proudly, with our voters' eyes open, because what we promise, we carry it out! That is why the political party GERB is the first political force! With regard to the Election Code. Dear colleagues, you have come with a promise of a majority vote, you have received 565 thousand. the vote of support of Bulgarian citizens is precisely because of this, and now you turn back and justify yourself over time. Propose it, you're not too small. Dear Mr. Toshko, I forgot your last name because you're pretending to be a writer! Dear colleague, you are no longer a screenwriter hiding behind the screen, you are a MP and you are responsible, and what you say, what you came up with during the elections with the declarations, with the proclamations, you are obliged to represent it and submit it to the National Assembly. It's the only way to show that you have a face and respond to what you've been given a vote of confidence in. We'll support you! Don't worry, work! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u152	Are there any other statements? Mr. Zhivko Tabakov. Do you have one minute or do you want an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u153	Firstly, Madam President, we would like to take advantage of the process of increasing group time. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] For all the groups, yes. My fellow Members, I have deliberately waited to hear what positioning is like in this House, and I see that most political groups have united on a number of proposals which in themselves cannot be supported. However, what we have tabled as a proposal from.. Stand up! For the preferential vote to be reduced from 7 to 5%, I somehow got lost in the debate itself. What do I mean? Yesterday I deliberately didn't take the floor when there was a proposal from the group. The members of each of the members of the National Assembly shall be entitled to participate in another group or to form one in a calm manner. We've heard attacks that say that the people who have determined who to vote for should be there. Today, however, I would like to ask everyone to think that when we are talking about such democracy, what is troubling us to reduce the threshold of the preferential vote to 5%? If anyone in this room bothers him, it is precisely addressed to the large parliamentary groups, because all of us in the small elective areas know how to line up some lists of the big parties. That is, we are ordering people who want to enter the big party in parliament, and everyone else who is in unselectable places cannot enter here because they may have a different position than the mother party. I therefore believe that today we need to be a little more confident in this proposal and to be supported because I believe that when we give this democratic process to each voter, we have nothing to worry about. In this order of thinking, I think it is not so revolutionary the proposal to reduce from 350 people in the settlements the elected mayors to 100, because tomorrow, when we have to continue to crush GERB, because these are the calls in this whole room, let's not forget that in 2023 there are mayor elections coming, which mayoral elections, if today we are talking about some processes in the National Assembly, must be carried on the ground in the small towns and towns and we have much more motivation not the big parties, the small people, the normal people, the people who have their position and vision for their development at every local place to be elected. Therefore, colleagues, I subpoena everyone and ask for support in terms of reducing the preferential vote from 7 to 5%, and for mayors in small towns to be elected with a population of 100 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u154	Mr. Vassilev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u155	Honourable Members, Madam President! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the.There is such a people. We have met with the National Association of Mayors of City Halls in the Republic of Bulgaria, we have discussed this proposal in principle. We believe that the appointment of the mayor's deputies by the municipal mayor showed certain disabilities. Deficit in terms of the fact that very often appointed mayors are not liked by the people in the population; disabilities in terms of that very often appointed mayors use their position to exert pressure, even for voting; handicaps in terms of not having a budget, very often this delegated budget by municipalities is used for something else. If the mayor's deputy is elected, that is, the mayor of the town hall is elected, he has a relative autonomy from the municipal mayor. In very few districts in Bulgaria, municipal mayors took the liberty of making elections after introducing the law with this restriction as Pleven district, the municipality of Pleven, the mayor of Spartanski. This showed that when people are asked, they feel much more relaxed, have much more confidence in the institutions, and therefore those 200 or 300,000 people who have no right to vote because of this legislative change will appreciate this in dignity. There is such a people that we support in principle this proposal to return the threshold of 100 inhabitants for elections. With regard to the percentage of 7 to 5% for preferences. I speak my own opinion of a true story because I've been on the field. If we reduce the preferential vote to 5%, there is a political party in which a group of businessmen are deliberately placed in certain areas on a competitive basis to buy votes. You know who this political party is. [[Relations to the right: We don't know.]] The idea of the leadership of this political party is by putting several solvency individuals on the list and they are playing competitively against each other, realizing that not all of them will be able to enter, to raise the total vote of the party. By reducing this percentage, we will allow this party to overexpose this thing and get an even bigger competitive start. In this way we will raise exactly her voices, which I guess is not your goal either. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Are there any other statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I asked, none of you said anything. Would you like a statement? [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the procedure is in place and it is requested to provide the Secretariat with an online connection in order for a colleague of ours who is in quarantine to express his vote through the video conference online connection and online voting. If it takes some time...? [[Heckling]] Are they gonna be okay, I don't know? That's my procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u158	It's okay. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u159	To all of us, yes, colleagues, I apologize, who are in quarantine, but our colleague from our parliamentary group said that the vote was not included online. Of course, I would also be happy if Mr. Stanislav Trifonov joins the upcoming vote. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u160	Mr. Slavov, I don't know anything about the mask. [[Replication by the National Representative Atanas Slavov: "Procedure! "]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u161	Madam President, colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal for a separate vote on the bills. [[Replying: it is so!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u162	It's the rules, Mr. Slavov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] For the three minutes you asked the administration of parliament, I hope we won't be bored. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] We've announced... [[(Reply from MP Desislava Atanasova:]] Colleagues, I've announced a voting regime. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 154-01-2, submitted by Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u164	They voted 211 MPs: 95, against 1, abstention 115. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u165	Please re-vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u166	We got the voice online, it's still not enough. [[Heckling]] I'll announce it to you next time. [[(Reply of MP Desislava Atanasova:]] We've announced the result. Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u168	They voted 210 MPs: for 94 and one vote for Todor Todorov, for 95, not against, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. By groups: GERB "68" for, there is such a people "seven" for, BSP "34 against, DPS "27 against. Thank you. It's not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 154-01-9, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 15 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u169	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u170	They voted 211 MPs: for 211, against and abstention there is no. The bill is passed. [[Applause from ICN, ISV, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u171	And Mr. Todorov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u172	And one.. 212.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u173	Can I have a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I am doing a re-voting procedure, as the party leader is not able to vote for their own, supported by the majority in plenary with 211 votes, a bill. Let's try again Mr. Trifonov to join the online meeting to express his vote. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u176	Mrs. Atanasova, there are established connections that she wants, votes. I'm going to have to rethink it. Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u177	For one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u178	Vote 210 MPs: for 209, against none, abstention 1. The bill has been passed. Please vote for... [[Replying to announce the vote by group.]] Don't interrupt! It's clear they're all for it if they're all for it. [[Shouts: "Eee!" "Replications by GERB-SDS: "There is one abstention!"]] Looking for one abstentionist? [[Yeah, yeah, yeah. Who is it?]] I ask you to vote on the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 154-01-18, tabled by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, 16 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u179	Yeah. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "Bravo, Toshe! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u180	They voted 203 MPs: for 69, against 1, abstention 134. The offer is not accepted. Please vote for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 154-01-21, submitted by the MPs Hristo Ivanov, Antoaneta Tsoneva and Ivaylo Mirchev, 16 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u182	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u183	Vote 212 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 119. The bill is not accepted. [[Replys: "Prevoting. "]] A re-vote has been requested.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u184	Madam President, we want a re-vote to be seen once again for whom these proposals do not pass.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u185	Yeah, yeah, you can see it, you can see it. We don't have any visual defects! [[(Radio.) (Applause)]] Please, re-election mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u186	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u188	Vote 216 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 121. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply of the National Representative Dimitar Glauchev: "Procedure, Mrs. Doncheva. "]] We're in voting mode. We're in voting mode! Please vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 154-01-26, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u190	I vote abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u191	Vote 216 MPs: 68 against 76, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u192	Madam President, I propose a re-vote, and before that a name check to give the party leader a chance. [[(SCREAMS: (SCREAMS:)]] Let's give him a chance. He does not have to participate, but at least let him exercise his voice and attitude towards the majority vote, which was his proposal during the referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u193	A roll call check before the re-vote, are you saying, or are you saying in the vote? [[(Reply of the National Representative Dimitar Glauchev: Before, before! If possible.]] I'm announcing a roll call: Adlen Shukri Shevked- here Albena Simeonova Varbanova- here Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov- here Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- here Alexander Velislavov Todorov- here Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Ivanov Parizov- here Alexander Nikolov Valchev- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Stykov Markov-- here. Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Alexander Filchev Mateev- here Alise Kamilova Murtezova- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- here Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- here Andrey Nikolaev Mihaylov (through an internet platform) video conference connection)- here Andrei Hristov Valchev- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Antoinette Andonova Stefanova- here Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- here Anton Yordanov Adamov here Armaan Agop Babikan here Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Bajram Yuzkan Bajram here Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- here Bogdan Emilov Botsev- here Boyko Petrov Cafedjiev- here Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva- here Boris Tsvetkov- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- here Borislav Dimitrov Sandov- here Burhan Ilyazov Abase- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Vassileva Vassileva-Filadelfevs- missing Vasil Yordanov Georgiev- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velizar Mateev Shalamanov- absent Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- here Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev- here Vladislav Panchev Panev- here Faith Emilova Yordanova- here Galya Eneva Zahariev- here Galya Marinova Burdarska- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Zaharinin Popov-here Georgi Yordanov Ganev- absent Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grigor Angelov Gorchev- absent Danny Stefanova Canazireva- here Daniel Pavlov Mitov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Deliana Valerieva Pesheva- here Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- here Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Petrov Syarov- here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Gradev-- here. Dimo Chavdarov Georgiev- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Dragomir Georgiev Osavkov- here Dragomir Stefanov Petrov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- here Enko Georgiev Naydenov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Esheref Kasim Esheref-here Zhivka Mihaleva Iron- here Zhivko Ivanov Tabakov - absent Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova - here Zornitsa Nikolaeva Mikhailova- here Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- here Ivaylo Vanev Valchev- here Ivaylo Krasimirov Kozhuharov- here Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev- here Ivaylo Peev Staribratov- here Ivan Bogomilov Petkov- absent Ivan Borisov Totev- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Vassilev Hinoski- here Ivan Georgiev Velov- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Yordanov Granitski- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- here Ivo Georgiev Atanasov- here Iliana Petkova Zhekova- here Ilija Dimitrov Lazarov- here Ilian Slaveykov Yonchev- here Ilko Stoyanov - here Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Ihsan Halil Hakke-here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- here Yordan Svedenov Stoyanov- here Kaloyan Milkov Yankov- here Katya Maximova Paneva- here Kiril Sashev Simeonov- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Hristov Nikolov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krum Georgiev Donchev- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Ivanov Bakardzhiev- here Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov- here Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- absent Lyubomira Simeonova Popova- missing Maxim Kolev Genchev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Kostadinov Peykov- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Maria Vassileva Kapon- missing Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Maston Osmanov Mastonov here. Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova- here Maya Yordanova Dimitrova- here Mika Mikhailova Zaykova- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Minko Velchev Angelov- here Miroslav Ivanov Asparuhov- here Mitko Stykov Stykov- here Mitko Hristov Kunchev- here Michaela Yasenova Krumova- here Mladen Naydenov Marinov- here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Momchil Kunchev Ivanov- here Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova- here Nevena Evstatieva Mineva- here Nikola Hristov Krastev- here Nikolay Dimitrov Hadjigenov- here Nikolai Nankov Nankov- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Peter Hristov Dimitrov- here Petar Yassenov Marinov-here Petya Nikolaeva Tsankova- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Danailov- here Plamen Ivanov Milev- absent Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski- here Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov- absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Hristomirov Rashev- here Radomir Petrov Cholakov- here Radostin Petev Vassilev- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza-here. Sasho Todorov Savov here Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov- here Svetoslav Bonchev Kolev- here Svetoslav Georgiev Georgiev- here Sevim Ismail Ali here Sezgin Yussain Mehmed- here Sergey Manushov Kichikov- here Sylvi Kirilov Petrov- here Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva- here Stanislav Dimitrov Govegorov- here Stanislav Svetozarov Balabanov- here Stanislav Todorov Trifonov- absent Stancho Dimitrov Stavrev- here Stella Dimitrova Nikolova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Nedelchev Mirev-here Stoyan Alexandrov Mihalev- here Stoyan Kostadinov Stoev- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Stratzimir Ilkov Pavlov- here Tanner Kadir Turkoglu is absent. Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tatiana Doncheva Toteva- here Theodora Margarita Peneva- here Tihomir Gochev Tenev- here Todor Baychev- here Todor Vassilev Vassilev-here Todor Stamatov Todorov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov- here Tunjai Ramadan Ozturk here Philip Marinov Stanev-- here. Philip Stefanov Popov here Filcho Krastev Filev-- here. Hayri Recepov Sadakov- here Halil Recepov Letifov here Hamid Barry Hamid here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hatice Mehmedova Georgieva- here Hristina Ivanova Georgieva- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov- here Hristo Mikhailov Dochev- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Ivanov Enchev- here Tsetska Georgieva Bachkova- here Ömer Mustafa Hamza- here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- here 219 MPs are present in the Chamber. There's a quorum. Please re-vote on the latest bill, which was by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u194	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u196	We are revisiting GERB's Bill. They voted 205 MPs: for 69, against 65, abstention 71. The bill is not accepted. Please vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 154-01-28, tabled by Nikolay Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs on 19 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u197	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u198	That's against it. They voted 207 MPs: 9 against 70, abstention 128. The bill is not accepted. The bill of Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs, No 154-01-9, was adopted in the first vote. Procedure? Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 the written proposals for amendment and supplement to the bill adopted in the first vote, in accordance with the third sentence, to vote to reduce the deadline to three days. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u200	Who wants reverse procedure? And is the BSP's procedure reverse, or is it self-contained? Who wants reverse procedure? [[The National Representative Yavor Bojankov is going to the parliamentary tribune.]] Please take your seat, Mr. Bojankov, and make a reverse offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u201	Reverse procedure, Madam President. The problem is too serious to push. I'm asking you for seven days, as per the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u202	Anyone who agrees with the procedural proposal made by Radostin Vassilev the deadline for submitting proposals to be shortened to three days, please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u204	That's against it. They voted 207 MPs: for 101, against 71, abstention 35. We sum up one vote for.. 102, and one vote against. 72, and the ratio does not change. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u205	I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u206	Yes, come in for a re-vote. Please re-vote Mr. Vassilev's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u208	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u209	They voted 209 MPs: for 106, against 69, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from IHN.]] We sum up one vote for the.BG and one vote against 70, and the ratio does not change.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u210	Madam President, the quorum must be 209.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u211	The Quorum is always 121 people according to all the rules of law. The Quorum is right, not on a computer. [[Noise and lines.]] That's the quorum of 121! Quorum has it, we checked it out. Now we have to count the majority, so... [[Noise and lines, applause]] Okay, negative vote and then, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u212	Madam President, honourable Members! I don't know what you're clapping at, and do you even understand what you're clapping at right now?! You clap at the fact that you decided for the Election Code to give the minimum period of three days, while you were just here explaining how it wasn't done overnight. Just for one night, you're doing it right now. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I want to make it very clear that from now on you have all the responsibility for what will happen in the elections whenever they are. And to my colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria to tell them to see who supported them and who did not support them because your proposals were accepted because of the people there is such a people because of the Straight! And because of the other colleagues we pretend to rely on. But what you just did disprove all the things that you said before the elections how to do in the dark Election Code, how we try to tamanize it, how there is no public discussion, how everyone does not understand and do not know what they are doing. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] That's what you guys are doing right now and people are seeing it! [[GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u213	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u214	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I explain why I voted against. I voted against... [[Noise and lines.]] Because that's what it is, it's not in number. I voted against because I wanted to give my former colleagues the opportunity to still try to maintain the illusion that they are responding to what is happening to them right now. Let me explain about the people watching us outside this room. This period, which we have just voted on, means that no one has any intention of forming a government, that we are moving towards the fastest possible elections! [[GERB-SDS.]] Let's know it! If you have valor, come out and confess. If not, I'll apologize if it turns out I'm lying, and that would probably be the happiest excuse of my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u215	All right, Mr. Dilov. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Procedure! I want my voice to be read correctly, as there is a mistake. I voted against GERB's Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u217	Okay, Mr. Bojankov. Since this does not matter to the final result [[crowd cheering, applause]] Maybe just for your relationship with Mrs. Ninova, consider it my responsibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u218	Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u219	...and we've given you an apology note.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u220	...every Member of the National Assembly shall be responsible for the way he voted. What you said wasn't responsible at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-23.u221	Okay. It's 10 to 2:00. We have a next item on the agenda. An extension of working time has not been requested so far, and to begin looking at the Bill, in which we have eight minutes until the end of the working time, it seems not particularly reasonable. Mrs. Yordanova, do you want a procedure? [[(Noise and lines by ……]] When is the working hours extended? [[Radio, noise, lines, applause from GERB-SDS.]] From next time. Colleagues, we really hope that we will introduce a reasonable tone in the discussions and that everyone will have but a pathos, which is inexplicable to procedural matters, and a sensitivity to what we offer each other. The next plenary session is on 28 April 2021, on Wednesday, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
