ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u1	227 MPs were registered. We have a quorum. I'm opening today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Today's extraordinary meeting was convened by an order of the President of the National Assembly on the grounds of art. 78, p. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 40, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the following agenda: 1. Election of Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers. 3. Election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. He's made a statement in the order of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev with the following text: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm On the basis of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I SAY: I propose to the 40th National Assembly to elect Kiril Petkov Petkov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Published in Sofia on 11 December 2021. President Rumen Radev. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of "We continue the Change" Mr. Andrey Gurov to present Mr. Petkov's candidacy. Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u2	A declaration on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u3	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have previously made a procedural proposal for the direct transmission of this debate and the items set out on the agenda for plenary on BNT and BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u5	Colleagues, is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal. Vote 236 MPs: 230 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and the microphones of the Bulgarian National Radio. Here you are with the declaration, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, Mrs. President of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable MPs, representatives of the judiciary, Your Excellencies, Dear Representatives of the Religious Communities in Bulgaria, Mrs. Ombudsman, Dear Guests! Since today we will all be busy commenting on the new government, it is appropriate to evaluate what has happened in the last seven months. It is appropriate that the office offices of Yanev 1 and Janev 2 receive their political assessment at least from the opposition, since so far the parties of the ruling majority have not done so. During this official government of the President it became clear that he deeply understood neither the role of the presidential institution in the political life of the country nor the role of the caretaker government in the political crisis. Mr. Radev, you have appointed your official governments with the application that they are made up of professionals with expertise and have given them three main tasks: to deal with the quota crisis; to hold elections and to guarantee the electoral process; to prepare the recovery plan. There were also requests for revision of previous governance, growth of foreign investments, statehood, prosperity, growth. Instead, your two offices created unprecedented chaos in every area of public life and instead of participating in the resolution of the political crisis, escalated and extended it. Those offices failed in the most important task you put on them: the preservation of the life and health of the Bulgarians during the crisis. With fanfare, you announced an action plan for a Covid-19 pandemic. He was accepted by the government and thrown into the trash bin the next month. None of the measures written in the Plan were introduced, and the mantra we did! The cost of dealing with this is thousands of lost lives, broken records of dead, infected and active cases. Statistics are terrifying. On this background, you have begun to award yourselves gold medals for dealing with the pandemic, which speaks of severe cynicism and complete self-preservation. You generated a total failure in vaccination. It started in May when the health minister froze the green corridors. The motive for this inadequate behavior was that elderly people need to be vaccinated first in order to save them. You didn't save them! This is evident from the age groups of the victims of the passing wave. Shortly after these actions of the minister, we witnessed a crash at the rate of vaccination of 38,000 doses per day, the decline was clear in summer and spring, and after the introduction of the green certificate we were barely able to skip 20 thousand doses per day. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there are 5,000! You entered the green certificate today for tomorrow. It led to total chaos. In the peak of the fourth wave, you forced thousands of people to line up in front of labs so they could work. A complete failure to deal with the pandemic in schools. You announced you'd be the last to close them and open them first. You've only closed them today for tomorrow. In this way, you did not give parents any opportunity to prepare and organize their daily lives. There was also a complete failure with the delivery of sparing tests for students. Incompetence led to conflict with parental and teaching organizations, followed by a public conflict between the education and health minister. The introduction of the students' tests was slow, but at the same time it has already been commented as a corruption scheme by a deputy minister in your caretaker government. To this we can add zero preparation of the health system in the summer for the coming wave in autumn and winter. A humiliating methodology for paying the medics on line one. The announced readiness for hunger strike of medical staff during a pandemic, the gutting of some of the most respected Bulgarian doctors, a series of protests against the minister and harsh lobbying in favor of corporate interests in the last days of his term of office. Regarding the second task, according to which fair and free elections were to be held. You held elections twice and a record of low turnout was produced both times. Over 300 million were spent. lv. for Venezuelan machines to comply with the one-night stand Election Code. You organized brutal repression and persecution of political opponents. You have applied long forgotten militia primos, and the office has become a tool for suggestion and innuendo. This led to a complete demotivation for participation in the electoral process, the destruction of confidence in parties, and hence the destruction of confidence in democracy. The failure of the third task related to the Recovery Plan has become clear in recent days. First, you delayed the Plan and its introduction to present a better one, then wrote a six-year new Recovery Plan, made it opaque and incompetent. So you lost time, which already cost hundreds of millions of help to Bulgarian citizens. Today it turns out that your plan has been made a mincemeat and money will be available for recovery in 2023. A Lost Perspective for Bulgaria! Meanwhile, foreign direct investment shrank by over 60%, investment projects are zero, and the widely proclaimed electronic car factory seems to be withdrawing. [[Laughter]] It turns out that Bulgaria did not have a Minister of Economy because your appointment was a Canadian citizen and with its presence in the cabinet violated the Bulgarian Constitution. The external debt withdrawn by your governments is 3 billion. BGN, with governments demonstrating absurd behaviour in the debt markets, and that in all declarations of surpluses and success. The topic for the euro area for seven months was not on the agenda of the government, which will probably prevent the introduction of the single European currency within the deadlines Bulgaria had set. Your finance minister is lost in translation. After his subordinates have had to disprove him twice a day in recent weeks, he finally stopped the budget procedure because he is obviously unable to continue it. However, on the last day of the government's extraordinary meeting, 42 million were decided to be allocated. euros of the former Bank of SIV in Moscow a decision that we will not support in parliament! Along with everything listed here in recent months, business aid has stopped, grants have become loans, and infrastructure projects have been blocked by a minister who did not distinguish parking from a construction site. You saved 36 days of your life. You sent the black box to the broken LAG for 90 days, while illegal migration, domestic crime, accidents, domestic violence and phone fraud grew. The prices of electricity were growing to unprecedented levels in history, and you were late to BGN 110. to the business for two months, which has not yet been fully paid off. Since 1 December, this insufficient compensation is no longer available. This causes a price crisis and bankruptcy for the Bulgarian business. International relations. International relations with our neighbours are frozen and Bulgaria's presence in the European Council comes down to one sigh and three questions: you want questions, or interview, or what? [[Loud noise.]] Dear Mr. President, in the last seven months you and your office have achieved seven things that are phenomena in the new Bulgarian history: a fierce division of Bulgarian society in size and rhetoric, unparalleled with those of 1990; unprecedented intervention in the executive power;...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u7	You're running out of time, Mrs. Atanasova, already!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u8	I'm coming. ...direct management of power ministries through its avatars directly through the replacement of the chiefs of special and security services, the Ministry of Interior, customs, tax and all other control bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u9	Thirty seconds over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u10	Unprecedented for our new history confrontation between legislative, executive and judicial authorities; there has been no clash between institutions. [[Sighs: ♪ The Time, the Time! ♪]] A record death rate of a horse, record electricity prices...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u11	Last 10 seconds, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u12	...the most violations of the Constitution per capita in our new history. This, colleagues, is the brief and incomplete analysis of the activities of your two offices... [[Sighs: ♪ The Time, the Time! ♪]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u13	I take your word for it, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u14	...do Bulgarians live...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u15	Eleven minutes already!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u16	...better in seven months...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u17	Mrs. Atanasova...!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u18	...Management of the official governments, assessments by the Bulgarians are yet to come...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u19	We're done!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u20	God save Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Atanasova. Now I give the floor to Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u22	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, Mrs. President of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Members of the judiciary, Your Excellencies, Dear Representatives of the Religious Communities in Bulgaria, Dear Mrs. Ombudsman, Dear Guests! In the execution of a procedure under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in accordance with Decree No 290 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria I have the honour to present to you a biographical reference of the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Kiril Petkov Petkov. Kiril Petkov graduated from the University of British Columbia at Vancouver and a Master of Business Administration at Harvard University, where he was ranked at the top 10% of his class. As an entrepreneur Kiril Petkov develops projects in the field of innovations with high added value, has a successful business in the development of probiotics and biotechnology. Kiril Petkov is one of the founders of the Center for Economic Strategies at Sofia University, aspired by Harvard, where he teaches economic development. In 2018, Petkov established the Center for Applied Research and Innovation in Natural Sciences at the Faculty of Biological Sciences of Sofia University. Kiril Petkov is Minister of Economy in Stefan Yanev's first office from 12 May 2021 to 15 September 2021. He's a family man with three kids. Kiril Petkov has been nominated prime minister by the largest parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" and is called to form a government of the Republic of Bulgaria. I am convinced that this is a worthy candidacy of a man who is clearly aware of his responsibility to take over the country's governance at this particularly difficult time of energy, economic and health crisis. I am sure that Kiril Petkov has the will to lead the fight against corruption and fulfil the basic commitment enshrined in the coalition agreement, namely zero tolerance for corruption. I believe that together with the team of the Council of Ministers Kiril Petkov will continue the change initiated by the office, following the principles of transparency and integrity in the government. I hope that Kiril Petkov will be the main driver for achieving our common goal. Bulgaria will develop economically, provide quality health care, education and fair incomes for a better Bulgaria in which we all want to live. Let us today, conscious of our responsibility, have a tolerant debate and give support to the future cabinet. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Now I give the floor to Mr. Kiril Petkov Petkov, proposed as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Petkov. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u24	Dear Bulgarian citizens in the country and abroad, Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Vice President, Mrs. President of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the judiciary, distinguished representatives of the religious communities in Bulgaria, dear guests! Today is an important day to continue the change of thinking and changing governance. Our first task is to realize that if we want a better future for Bulgaria, we must work together. Together with the four coalition partners, we have achieved joint debates in which we have made a common agreement in 120 pages, 18 policy chapters that will require this change to take place. But together we must also work with the opposition when we talk about constitutional changes, changes in the judiciary. Let me outline today the main priorities of the future government. In the area of energy, we must avoid increasing the price of electricity for domestic consumers from January 1st, we must do everything possible to reduce prices for business as well. Bulgaria's new energy strategy should be based on two principles: low prices for competitiveness and comfort of domestic consumers, as well as diversification. We shouldn't depend on anyone. The Greek link must become a top priority as quickly as possible. The proposed Minister of Energy in this new government will be Alexander Nikolov. Health care. We've got to fight this crisis. We cannot wait for the next wave of the next strain to hit the Bulgarian economy, Bulgarian healthcare, Bulgarian schools. We have two options from now on. One option is to say: "We have to get the green certificates, we do not care about vaccination, we close our eyes to the facts of science."..................................................................................................................................................................... but to inform the Bulgarian to inform the Bulgarian the Bulgarian the Bulgarian to inform the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to inform the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian to the Bulgarian.. And let me say that while there were once questions about the vaccine, now eight and a half billion people have been vaccinated around the world. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "How much?"! How much?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u25	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u26	I'm sorry. Eight-and-a-half billion each put on one vaccine. I'm sorry, yeah. 3.6 billion of people have been vaccinated around the world. [[Strong noise from GERB-SDS.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u27	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u28	All developed countries over 70% have vaccination and we remain, unfortunately, behind Rwanda, Pakistan and Tajikistan. That is why my first order, if I am elected Prime Minister, will be: everyone in the Council of Ministers must have a green certificate. Because the small restaurant on the corner in Sofia cannot have to require a green certificate from its customers, and the Council of Ministers can enter without one. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The next step and motto of our government will be really, believe me: zero tolerance for corruption, zero tolerance for every lev, spent illegally, opaque and not only in order to improve the lives of Bulgarian citizens. The control of these finances will be given to the Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance Mr. Asen Vassilev. The Ministry of Internal Affairs will have one main goal: there will be no one above the law, no one will feel that his crime will go unpunished. I'm going to hold corruption from the lowest to the highest level in this hierarchy. As Minister of the Interior, I propose Mr. Boyko Rashkov. Justice. All of us in the ruling coalition united around the idea that Mr. Geshev had not achieved the results to be achieved by a chief prosecutor. So the biggest theft in the history of Bulgaria, KTB, did not have any results from the prosecution. What about when our external partners show us the people who are on the list - Magnetski and the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office is silent?! This reform must become a reality once and for all. The prosecution must be reformed. I very much hope that the help of the future Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova will achieve results for all of us. Economics. Bulgaria must catch up with its European partners. Our growth should be above 5% of gross domestic product. We must become a centre for innovation, a centre for competitiveness, a centre for new start-ups, not only in Bulgarian but also in the region. We need to attract investment because we are already in the richest market in the world. We're already on the lowest taxes. But for some reason, which we all actually know, the word is "corruption," we cannot attract productive industries to serve the European market. This must become our primary goal. And a personal dream of mine to have the first Bulgarian unicorn company to sell on the European market and to be launched by Bulgarian entrepreneurs. That is why, for the economy, we are putting two people - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova, as well as Minister of Innovation and Growth Mr. Daniel Lorere. Agriculture. We have all known since childhood that Bulgaria has one of the most fertile soils in the world. We also know the story that we were the big exporters of fruits and vegetables. Well, it's time to get that status back! It is time to produce healthy foods with high added value. It's time to keep our forests and manage them well. For the Minister of Agriculture the proposal is for Mr. Ivan Ivanov. Infrastructure and transport. It is high time to connect Northern and Southern Bulgaria. This mythical tunnel under Shipka must become reality. We have to build legally! "Hemus Highway." We have to make the way Botevgrad. [[Laughter and lines from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.]] I'm sorry, Botevgrad, Vratsa Vidin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u29	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. And please don't talk on cell phones.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u30	Let's build new bridges over the Danube. For these objectives, which have been promised over the past 12 years but have not been achieved, we are proposing Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, as well as Minister of Transport and Communications Mr. Nikolay Subev. Foreign policy. We must be a constructive partner in the European Union and NATO. We must fight our partners in the European Union for the rule of law and this rule of law to be linked to European funds. The power of diplomacy and the peaceful solution of problems in conflict areas should be the Bulgarian priority. Neighborhood and progress in relations with northern Macedonia should also be a huge commitment. That is why I propose to Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Teodora Gencovska. Defense. It must be in sync with our foreign policy. At the same time, there should also be a huge focus on zero corruption in the army. Bulgarian defence must be adequate and effective. That is why I propose the current Prime Minister and I hope that future Minister of Defence Mr. Stefan Yanev. Education. Bulgaria does not have many scientists who are ranked in the top one percent of Stanford as number of scientific articles and number of quotes. Academic Nikolay Denkov is our proposal for Minister of Education. He has the enormous task of preparing our children to be adequate for the new working conditions not in the next ten years, but by 2080 the Bulgarian education should very quickly get up to date. Our children should have basic skills such as: teamwork, analytic thinking, analyzing an increasing number of data. All this should be done at the school, not with private lessons and no child should be left behind the board. Sports. Every kid should have access to sports. Sport is health and discipline. The Bulgarian state must give adequate sports facilities, coaches and access to international competitions. Sport is also a brand for Bulgaria. We hope that during this term we will have better performances of Bulgarian athletes in the Olympics and international competitions. Tourism. A very important sector for the economy and the image of Bulgaria. Bulgaria must become famous for its competitive advantage: One destination, one hundred experiences, or, when they talk about us around the world, they must say: One destiny one Hundred experiences. There is no other corner of the land where in one holiday you can go within a week on a mountain, sea, an old fortress or wine tourism. For the Ministry of Tourism we offer Hristo Prodanov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ecology. We can't have good tourism if we don't take care of our nature. Right now we've got some pretty high-profile criminal procedures going on, full dumps, dirty air and dirty water. If we do not deal with these problems, we cannot enjoy one of the greatest riches Bulgaria has, and this is the Bulgarian nature. We must stop building our dunes, we must stop treating Bulgarian nature as a stepmother. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water I propose to be Mr. Borislav Sandov. Social policy. From now on, there must be no pensioner below the poverty line. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The demographic crisis is one of our biggest problems. Together with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Georgi Gokov we will work in the morning and evening to achieve these goals. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo!]] Culture. As scary as the demographic crisis is the cultural crisis in Bulgaria. Bulgarian culture must once again become a national priority. Let me tell you, when years ago I was invited to a small village of Tatarevo, and I saw that the Chitalishte was restored, the hall was full, there are artists from Europe, the United States all play on the Bulgarian stage in this small village in the brand-new renovated salon. All this was done by a Bulgarian, without a penny of help from the state. It is no accident that our choice for the Minister of Culture is Atanas Atanasov the person behind this project. [[We are continuing the Change.]] And all of this must be based on an effective management... the need for digitalization, electronic ID cards, electronic auctions, transparent public procurement. This is the only way to achieve the objective of zero tolerance for corruption. There are two people in our proposal who will be responsible for effective management and digitalization.. Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova along with the Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] If you vote on this composition of the Council of Ministers, I promise to be the Minister of all Bulgarians. There will be no mayor or municipality, regardless of which party, which does not have priority for investment projects in this municipality, and there will be no distinction from here on, because in each municipality there are Bulgarians who hope for a better way of life. And for future ministers, I want to say something. I'll be first among equals. Only team we will be able to achieve all these goals. We must work together with the opposition. I summon you! Watch our every move, watch for every mistake we make! What we are managing is not our money. This is the money of Bulgarian citizens, and I count on you to be constructive and critical to our actions. And when we talk about constitutional changes, I call again on you to let us forget our personal, political and any other goals. We have national interests that we are all responsible for. Let us once and for all give Bulgaria a true, fair justice with the amendment of the Constitution. With this, I would like to invite our coalition partners and the opposition to support the very composition that I have proposed to you. I believe that after 4 years Bulgaria will be a completely different place. Thank you! [[We are continuing the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u32	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. My procedure is in the manner of conduct, and I would actually like you, Mr. Chairman, to explain to me. There are three points on the agenda, we accept that in each of them, because we want to understand what the time and the speaking limit of the groups are, so I guess at each point there will actually be a limit to each individual point of speech, as it is reduced to the size of the groups. Is that right? We have three points, three points! For those of you who don't understand me. Three points! Each of them on the agenda shall have the appropriate speaking limit for each parliamentary group. Isn't that right? That's what I'm asking! Or it'll be one statement for all three points.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u33	Dear Mr. Nenkov, the discussion will be one by three points in accordance with parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u34	But we didn't vote on that, Mr. Chairman, we didn't specify it at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u35	Yes, make a procedural proposal to be separate debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u36	I make a procedure for each of the points to have a separate debate and limit for speaking groups as it is relative to the size of the groups. This is my procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u37	Okay. Thank you! Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are making a procedural proposal that the discussion is common to the three separate points, in so far as this is consistent with parliamentary practice at least since 2005, and the proposed topics are logically related to the technical and legally functionally dependent on each other, and only a debate together on how the specific policies of the future government will be achieved by the specific nominees will allow us a meaningful debate on these proposals that we need to vote on today.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u39	We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Alexander Nenkov. [[Replication by MP Mustafa Karadaye: "The need for discussion is total for the three points or for each one? "]] It's one thing, a discussion once upon a time. I'll announce it at the beginning of the discussion, Mr. Karadayi. We are going to vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov to split the discussions on the individual points. Please vote. Vote 205 MPs: 58, against 131, abstention 16. The motion is rejected. We remain with a common discussion on the individual points. [[Heckling]] I'm going to announce the time now. [[Heckling]] Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Chairman, with great respect I give it to your inexperience, you did not need to put to the vote Mr. Nenkov's proposal because it is on the agenda. You should have put to the vote only the proposal of the MP Lena Borislavova because it is different from what we have adopted as an agenda. You should have put it to the vote, and if it were accepted, then you should unite and announce time in groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u41	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. The practice, as Mrs. Borislavova mentioned, has always been about one discussion on the three points, as they are functionally linked, and has not been put to the vote. I've personally reviewed the transcript of her last election to a regular government. Thank you. We remain with one discussion, and I will read you the time each parliamentary group has. The Parliamentary Group is continuing The Change has a total of 30 minutes, with a possible extension of the time to 40 minutes. The parliamentary group of GERB-SDS "27 minutes, possibly 36 minutes..." [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Not from a place, Mrs. Atanasova, just to finish up, and you can tell us. From the "Rights &amp; Freedoms Movement." 18 minutes, in case of a possible extension to 24 minutes. "BSP" for Bulgaria "15 minutes," possible extension of up to 20 minutes. There is such a people.. 14 minutes, possibly an extension of up to 20 minutes. "Democratic Bulgaria." 11 minutes with an extension of 15 minutes. The Parliamentary Group of Party ARCHIVER is 10 minutes, possibly extending to 13 minutes. This is the time you have. Before we move on to the discussion, please vote and allow the proposed ministers, who are not MPs or members of the office. These are Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov, Mr. Borislav Sandov, Mrs. Acena Serbenova, Mrs. Teodora Genchovska, Mr. Alexander Nikolov and Mrs. Nadezhda Yordanova. Colleagues, I'm asking you to vote on their admission into this Chamber. Vote 215 MPs: 212, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the Chamber. Thank you. I'm opening the discussion. A statement has been made by the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye. This is not the order of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our expectation was that our request would be when it was our turn, but that's clearly what you thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u43	This is not the order of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u44	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, Mrs. President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Heads of Justice, Your Excellencies, Leaders of the Religious Communities in Bulgaria, Dear Guests, Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of the National Assembly! The people made their choice and entrusted very heavy tasks to their rulers, the people demanded a change.. a real, working change, not a replacement. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms want the change to happen. If you go back in the years, you will see and read that the DPS has always appealed for reforms in all sectors. This has not happened and delaying the necessary reforms can no longer be allowed. Kovid, the crisis, the economic, social, institutional crisis, increasing poverty will not be solved with the lack of institutions, even less with anti-DPS rhetoric and aggression. From the DPS we will support the necessary solutions to support the well-being of Bulgarian citizens, who guarantee the resolution of the crises - normality in politics, the restoration of democratic foundations of the country and statehood, as well as the termination of any corruption practices. Our constituents voted for this: protection of the rights and freedoms of every Bulgarian citizen, irreversibility of democracy, normal functioning of the authorities and institutions in the state, a successful and effective fight against corruption, and the organisation and conduct of elections have far from contributed to hope in this direction. The DPS always reacts when the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens are violated. The same was true in the management of GERB...................... we were alone.................................................................. Today, for the voters of the DPS, the analogy with totalitarian time is a fact and we have our explanation what is happening is the result of the silence of authorities, institutions and civil society organizations for more than 10 years. Dear ladies and gentlemen, democracy in Bulgaria is at a complex stage in its development. In the Parliamentary Republic of the National Assembly is the main task of restoring democracy and dealing with the institutional crisis in the country. Along with the priority problem related to Kovid, the economic, social, educational, health and other crises, Bulgarian citizens expect the urgent overcoming of the crises and solving their problems, raising their incomes and their standard of living. Bulgaria needs a regular cabinet to meet these expectations. The national resource is not enough. The recovery plan and operational programmes are lagging behind and the rule of law is required for their adoption. If we want the rule of law, with words, and especially with our deeds, we have to prove that. The uncritical admission of the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the laws of the country and the ugly manifestations of police are erosion of democracy and statehood and cannot have any justification. Martin Nimüller's famous poem was quoted by every convinced Democrat. It is particularly relevant now in the current deep crisis of democracy in Bulgaria and I will allow myself to remind myself: When the Nazis came for the Communists, I kept quiet, I wasn't a communist. When they shut down the Social Democrats, I kept quiet, I wasn't a social democrat. When they came for the unions, I kept quiet, I wasn't a union member. When they came for the Jews, I kept quiet, I wasn't Jewish. When they came for me, There was no one to talk to anymore. There was no one to protect me anymore. Today, out of this highest podium of the Bulgarian state, I call on all the statesmen, politicians, brave and noble leaders, prominent members of civil organisations, active and free citizens, to condemn the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the laws of the country, police and to stand under the true flag of democracy and statehood. Let us protect democracy and statehood today so that we can rest assured of the future of our children and grandchildren tomorrow! Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, from the DPS we will not support the proposed programme, structure and composition of the Council of Ministers because we have not been involved in any talks about them. But we will be constructive opposition and will contribute to the well-being of Bulgarian citizens, the restoration of democracy and statehood, as well as the protection of the rights and freedoms of every Bulgarian citizen. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u45	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any lines to Mr. Karadayi's statement? I won't. The People's Representative Daniel Mitov is listed for speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! In the beginning, I would like to turn not to the new majority of the quadruple coalition, but to the right-wing voters in Bulgaria, who for one reason or another voted for one of the parties in this coalition. I turn to them because I believe that they are following the political process and will yet appreciate their choice. Firstly, we must say that the new majority is dominated by a party that says it would achieve left-wing goals with right-wing instruments. Let us remind ourselves that political entities are assessed precisely by what objectives they are trying to achieve. Another coalition of the majority claims there is no left, no right. The third substance tells us that it is an anti-systemic party, but it is yet to be determined which system they will fight and what anti-systemic instruments. And the fourth element is the former Communist Party, which has never given up its totalitarian heritage and has always served the interests of the former communist regime repressive apparatus. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The inevitable conclusion is that left-liberal governance is forming, just as was the government of the Triple Coalition until 2009. And if there are right-wing people who voted for one of the components of the preparing to rule a coalition, let them know clearly: those for which you voted, return the former Communist Party and the networks of State Security to power. From everything spoken and heard so far in the campaign, I am under the impression that this government fits fully into the spirit of ultraliberal madness that has taken over some societies. Attempts to give up recognition of what society has achieved so far, to reject the tradition and lessons of the past, to give up our political fathers, to create a claim to some sort of big bang and some self-conceivement of this majority condemn us to enter a period in which a certain group of people will outrage and bully arrogantly on the political terrain. If we again witness villains, as a continuation of the repression of the caretaker government, another generation will direct its energy to conflicts and clashes instead of something creative. In order for there to be creative efforts in favour of society in this Parliament, it must stop the practice of sticking to collective guilt. Guilty people in all sorts of things there has always been and always will be, but to qualify a political organization or a large public group to be labeled as guilty for one thing or another, it only leads to the destruction of democracy. This is usually done by people with totalitarian instincts. There is a great expectation that the transition is finally over, but this expectation is constantly delayed, as the repeaters of the transition are constantly in power. I, as a representative of this generation, who grew up in the transition, would give good advice to my peers who would actually exercise the power: to do much because they have no right to fail. A failure would be a sentence for all of our generation, to which so many hopes are given. And among the many relapses that do not allow us to complete the transition, they really stand out: Firstly, continuous public stress when changing power and continuing aspiration for suffocation of the opposition. The permanent conflict between police and magistrates, which de facto means breaking the rules and in fact refusing to live by the same rules. And thirdly, some of the main features of the transition have always been chaos and reciprocal repression, while in a more meticulous context. In Bulgaria, the transition did not end in reality, as it was never actually implemented in full. Bulgarian politics continuously allows waves of restoration of nomenclatural elites and their derivatives. I'm afraid there's a new wave of restoration coming, and I hope I'm not right, which stands out for a particular loudness and display, and dark and ancient creatures crawl out of their caves and with roar they're ready to avenge for a long time that they've been kept in a state of hibernation. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] Surely the history of Bulgaria does not start with any government and ends with it, but every new power is expected to build, develop, change for the better. There's no way we're not going to see some sign changes with our naked eye today. First, dangerous requests for spending a lot of money are not only a characteristic of a left-wing political structure, but also call into question the strategic ambitions for Bulgaria's membership in the euro area. To think another loan would solve inflation problems, rising prices and low pensions is like thinking another brandy would cure you from a heavy hangover. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] The strategy of the new quadruple coalition is like the thesis of a student The structure of the new Council of Ministers offers us more administration despite requests for reduction. The decision-making mechanisms set out in the project are certainly suggested by the experienced BSP. I find it hard to believe that someone else can invent an organ as party secretaries from any party in any ministry, as well as to call them in public. It is obvious that the power ministries and all the state's power infrastructure remain under the control of President Radev. We called this phenomenon a "peti coalition partner" but it is actually a mentor or godfather of the coalition, which means that under certain circumstances we will be put at risk of receiving a puppet government instead of a government of change. Under the cover of an illusory and vague change, there is an attempt to concentrate power outside the Constitution, to use this power to control the state exactly the pattern in which Putin achieved this in Russia through the power structures and through aggressive confrontation with opponents. And in conclusion, I will allow myself a college advice: work in such a way as to justify the abbreviation of the PP exactly as we continue the Change. And hopefully the PP one day is not read as a full replacement. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u47	Are there any lines on Mr. Mitov's statement? I won't. Mr. Petrov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u48	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! I would like to briefly try to state my reasons for why I intend to support the proposed project for a government of Perhaps some of you know that my activities are aside from politics. When I received an invitation to join this project by Mr. Kiril Petkov, I was impressed by his biography and by that of Mr. Vasilev and the other participants. I was impressed with his story, but frankly, he wasn't enough to make me believe in success, so I did something else. A lot of you and I know each other, some of you and I are friends, and some of you know each other, too. [[Looks left]] I know your superiors, and I know your sponsors, and I decided to ask them: what kind of people are Cyril and Asen, why shouldn't I trust them? Because they're your political opponents, you obviously have something to say against them, there's something that's not okay with them. Do you know what kind of answer I got? I have not received any information on this issue, but I have received a very unambiguous message that if I continue to support Kiril Petkov and Asen Vassilev, I will lose the most valuable thing I have. And I wish that people, authors of the idea, would get this message, would know that it is perhaps the strongest motivation to say that my place is here on this team. I believe in it and I am convinced that it will work for Bulgaria! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] As I said, most of you and I know each other, and some of us are friends, and I know that some of you have this behavior and presence here mostly because they have received the same message that I have received. Finally, I am a normal person and very often feel fear, much more often than I would like, but as Mr. Assen Vassilev once told me: It is normal to be afraid, but there are things in this life that are more important than fear. [[(Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there lines? I won't. Is there anyone else to say? First of all, come in, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear compatriots and guests! I would also like, as colleague Petrov, whom I have listened carefully to, to state why my position would be against the proposed government. I have read with great interest the proposed coalition agreement. "Its first part "Justice", and I expected to see the measures declared for judicial reform, I expected to see the implementation of applied policies in favour of justice for the citizens, but unfortunately, most of the things I read were analyses, discussions, strategies. For the entire seven-and-a-half pages of the part of the ruling of this coalition agreement, the word........ is repeated 14 times, the word....................................................................................... is repeated 14 times............................................................................................................................................... I wondered why and where I had encountered these terms before, until I read that there would be work to be done in the procedures for the selection of state regulatory authorities to participate NGOs. Colleagues in my parliamentary group know that quite a large part of the NGOs, which state some interest in the management of the state, ergo and the executive, are directly or indirectly funded by foreign sponsors and foreign embassies. The activities of such NGOs are exhausted with analyses, strategies and discussions. I suppose that's why the lawyers of these NGOs have written a large part of the Coalition Government's Program in the Justice Department. I suppose this is also the reason why there are applications for depoliticisation of the CEC and the elimination of political representation in the CEC. Dear representatives of the four coalition parties, if not political parties, at least a representative in parliament, who will participate in the CEC, how will we ensure transparency in the elections? Again with the NGO funding from abroad? When I read the coalition agreement, I was very surprised to see that among those who have signed up that they have participated in the negotiations on the part of the Law, I personally did not see the expertise regarding the criminal justice of the Republic of Bulgaria. I am seriously worried that the lack of expertise regarding the criminal trial I am saying this as a person whose day and time of taking an oath as a MP coincided with the day and time of a meeting of the Specialized Court, and I am worried that this has led to a lack of any reforms and actions regarding criminal justice in the Republic of Bulgaria. For me, in the part of Justice, there is a huge ignorance of this matter. Without expertise in this area, action can be proposed, commenting on the reorganization of the Special Prosecutor's Office, to the Special Court, the cashier of the Prosecutor General, on which there are several opposing measures to be taken. On the one hand, it is asked not to exist this position, on the other hand, it is said that his functions will be reduced, from a third party, it is said that he will be elected by the National Assembly. To me, it means that there is no consensus between these four parties that have signed this coalition agreement, in part of the Justice Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to reform the judiciary, we need to make it work for the benefit of citizens, not just to write that we are going to redecorate the judicial map. In order to reorganise the judiciary, we need to show knowledge of justice, justice for citizens who expect justice for crimes committed. Unfortunately, such measures, such actions, I did not see in part. For me, it is a blow to the air for the so-called judicial reform, and unfortunately, its effect will be the same as the intention of the candidate for prime minister, which he said just now, to build a highway between Botevgrad, Vratsa and Shumen. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mrs. Ninova, you're signed up for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u52	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, dear Members of the National Assembly, your excellences, honourable representatives of the religions in Bulgaria, of the judiciary, honourable Bulgarian citizens! Driven by the understanding that Bulgaria is currently facing at least three crises, led by the understanding that you need the support of the state, stability in Bulgaria and security in your families, the Bulgarian Socialist Party has actively participated in the negotiations to form a regular government and a stable majority in parliament to start the real change of the current model of governance. We understand our participation in this government as a continuation of our continuous five-year efforts to change the management model of GERB. And Mr. Mitov, you can't surprise us anymore after five years of running us through fire and water, we endured as opposition, we didn't surrender and we didn't sell out. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's nothing you can do to surprise us or scare us. We have heard much scarier words about the Bulgarian Socialist Party than this place in these five years. Do you remember that as ruling and holding all the power in Bulgaria, sole holders, from here one day you decided, I quote: that you should send us to Siberia?! So today, with new and weaker definitions, there is no way to affect Bulgarian Socialists. I would like to personally congratulate the gentlemen Petkov and Vassilev on the efforts they have made in recent weeks. You know me, I'm not the kind of guy who gives empty compliments. The two made immense efforts, patience and reason to bring together four parties with different programs, ideology and proposals. I thank the other coalition partners for listening not only because we have more experience and political and parliamentary, but just accepted the necessity of the day, the necessity of the next 100 days, the necessity of the next four, that why not more years for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. We accept our participation in this cabinet as a guarantor of social justice in Bulgaria, as a guarantor of social policy, as a guarantor of care for people. And what I'm telling you is a fact written down in the agreement of the future government. Of course, I will not present it all, but challenged by what I heard in the hall, I will say that the Bulgarian children and young families are protected because they will finally be guaranteed with free kindergartens and nurseries after the five-year efforts of the BSP for Bulgaria. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] , for which I thank the mandate carrier and the other colleagues from the parties. At last, children in 14 years will have free medicines, and young parents who will stay home to watch them for a species of pandemic will be guaranteed on one salary. For workers and workers, after five years of efforts that you did not accept and did not approve, there will be a reasonable and justified increase in the minimum wage according to objective indicators and there is no way that this will not affect the other salaries in Bulgaria. About the pensioners. Well, finally, after so many battles, we're happy to say there won't be a pensioner below the poverty line. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] that we will all think wisely about a new model of recalculating pensions in the coming months. Everything cannot happen immediately, dear Bulgarian citizens. The important thing is that we have the will to start it and do it. We have finally lived to be written in an agreement, which I believe we will fulfil because I see our will that for Bulgarian culture there will be 1% of gross domestic product and 5% for Bulgarian education. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Finally, our great desire to eat Bulgarian clean food will happen because we decided the state to stimulate Bulgarian fruits and vegetables, milk and meat and to reduce the import of foreign produce at the expense of Bulgarian agriculture. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I can continue this way throughout the whole program of 110 pages, but I would like to sum up in one sentence: our aim to have a healthy and educated Bulgarian people working and earning high salaries and pensions, walking on the clean Bulgarian land, eating clean Bulgarian food, breathing clean air, is to make it come true; our aim for the Bulgarian to have access to health care and not have to pay crazy money that he does not have to, and dying on the roads and stairs of hospitals, is to come true; our aim is not just to accumulate quantity, but to accumulate quality of education and Bulgarian education to be linked to the Bulgarian economy, it is written in this document. Yes, Bulgarian companies will have Bulgarian workers and Bulgarian children and students will work in these companies and will stay in Bulgaria. Well, isn't that enough to agree to Bulgaria's BSP to participate in such a cabinet?! But we don't forget our other great goal and battles for five years. In our quest to secure another future for both children and our people, we will not forget the change of pattern for a moment. Therefore, instead of a single power, we will do our best in this cabinet to help the mandate carriers and to do it together, so instead of a single power to have institutions in Bulgaria that make decisions that respect each other and respect the general constitutional principle of separation of authorities. Instead of behind-the-scenes, there will be transparency, instead of personal relationships, nepotism and ladybugs, there will be order and rules equal to all, and for whom there is no respect for that order and rules, there will be justice, and that means that everyone should be held accountable if he has broken the law. Dear Members of Parliament, I address those of you who will remain in this Chamber and the new ones who will join our group: in order for this to happen, it must begin here. In your hands is the real change because the wicked model of government has been laid down for years in the laws of the Political Party GERB. So what if we recorded that we would change the corruption in the roads if you didn't remove the inhouse order text here in this room?! How will we achieve that every Bulgarian has access to healthcare if you do not change the Law on Medical Institutions here?! How will our pensioners finally see a recalculation of pensions if you don't change the Social Security Code here? If you choose us, we know our place. The Executive Board "The Council of Ministers, which you will choose, we know that we must come to persuade you to adopt laws, to implement them and to come to account for you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We rely on your understanding because Bulgaria is facing exceptional difficulties, the Bulgarian people are waiting for our support, we are waiting for the winter months and our first efforts to overcome the crises, but we are also waiting for the prospect of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the operational programs, the deep reforms in all sectors of Bulgarian life. We, representatives of the BSP for Bulgaria and the government, will do everything we can to make this happen. What you have heard from us as opposition to GERB is to become a reality in the government of Bulgaria. Good luck! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u54	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, Mrs. President of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Members of the judiciary, Your Excellencies, Dear Representatives and Leaders of the Religious Communities in Bulgaria, Dear Guests! Today, the Bulgarian National Assembly is called to elect the new composition of the Council of Ministers. This is indeed an extremely important day not only for the National Assembly, but also for Bulgaria, the least because this is the cabinet, the longest prepared in our new history. For more than seven months, this project has been preparing itself in different ways, but this is not the topic of today's speech. We will have time to tell Bulgarian citizens and here in the Chamber how exactly this project was prepared, how it went through two choices to get to the third, and how it all happened. But today we at the DPS are well-intentioned and we want this project to succeed. It doesn't matter how he was prepared, who did it and so on, because the country needs it. However, at the beginning of the debate we cannot be impressed by what is announced to us, not just here, but weeks and months, such as requests, such as slogans of the new power, of the new cabinet, which, I hope, will really become a cabinet of Bulgaria today. I'd like to make an analogy, not for anything else, but to say again, not to pick on each other politically, but to remember and to protect ourselves. When more than a century ago, French psychologist Emile Boarac introduced the term "dejavu" as a reference to something that is happening today, but you feel that you have already seen and lived, he hardly meant it, hardly thought it would become a cliché even in our lives. And today we have this feeling déjà vu already seen. Let's start from the slogans: "Nuleva tolerance to corruption." "Today the candidate for prime minister said it even with an aplomb": "Really zero tolerance!" "I wish it from the heart to become, but to tell you, "This is how Boyko Borisov and GERB started their way." Quote by Tsvetan Tsvetanov, 2009: "We will put on the agenda the real fight against corruption."......................................I will have full intolerance to all forms of corruption and will be uncompromising with which abuse of power, regardless of which party it is from and whether it is from GERB..................................................... This feeling of déjà vu continues further in the other messages. We don't go with distrust. We believe your wish is sincere. We just want to tell the Bulgarian citizens, colleagues in the Chamber and you: this has been done before several times in 2001 and some of the yuppie of the king came with this slogan. The second moment has already been seen is denial of what has been achieved by previous governments and throwing where justified, where unfounded accusations about incorrect governance and corruption practices. I'll give you examples of this again. Thus began their management and GERB a strange coincidence. The then Minister of Finance Simeon Djankov talked about wrongfully concluded contracts for more than two billion, which are not secured by funds for which the business is tricked into concluding them, and note where the Road Agency is, of course. A lot of coincidences. But I'm going to give you another example of what's going to happen, what we're going to have to look at. GERB's government came to power in 2009, claiming that everything before it was bad, denying everything, even using one term: "We have now restored financial stability. Let me give you only three economic indicators, because both Cyril and Assen will understand. I turn to a first name, as you like to turn around, and I find this practice good. Three indicators: Gross domestic product 2001 - 2009 Over eight years, 260% increase in gross domestic product from 27 billion to 73 billion. I round up so I don't bother you and those who watch, in detail the statistics. From 2009 to 2020 for 11 years 60%, from 260 to 60 public debt. The net public debt, minus government reserves, was less than two billion 2009. Now that GERB is gone, the net domestic debt is more than 22 billion new debt without having much of the crises. One more thing unprecedented I will tell you, which happened during this denied period 2001 - 2009. The two governments of Simeon Saxe-Coburg and Sergey Stanishev have returned 15 billion debt from 17 to two. Fifteen billion returned debt, this has not happened in any European country, and for Bulgaria this is an absolute precedent. Direct foreign investment in the same period over eight years is 34.4 billion, or 13.7% of gross domestic product. If you have to do this now, you have to have 9 billion. EUR direct foreign investment at 140 billion gross domestic product. In 12 years, foreign direct investment fell to 15.2 billion, or 2.9%. Do you understand why I'm giving these numbers as examples? Because when they came to power, they denied everything, and it turned out that this is the most productive economic period for Bulgaria. It is the most productive and geopolitical because we have become members of NATO and the European Union. The third topic on which we are very much arguing with the future prime minister is the subject of the backstage. Is behind-the-scenes involved in political projects? To specify which backstages I mean. We've said this many times, but for the record, let's say it again. The backstage, represented by the circle "Kapital" by the media monopoly and oligarch Ivo Prokopiev, by Ivan Krastev as one of the thinkers who created these projects. Because there is a resemblance here.. GERB in their recognition is their project, not in our words. GERB came to power after an extremely aggressive media campaign. You too. I'm just saying the similarities, nothing else. And when you turn to me and say, Mr. Tsonev, it's not like that, we have nothing in common, I believe you. But I'll believe you then, and we DPS will believe you when we see real cases. Then, when we see in the media of this circle you are to be crucified as for all 25 years all their opponents have been crucified. I conclude with the following example: a prime minister from the successful period I quoted you received the World Bank award for the best reformed tax system in Southeast Europe. He was crucified from morning to night by these media. And one of the weakest finance ministers that we had in my humble opinion was Simeon Djankov, the main positive hero there. That's this circle. We strongly believe that you are emancipated, or if you are not, you will emancipate yourselves, because when we talk about the rule of law, when we talk about intentions, we must also bear in mind that this circle had no influence between 2001 and 2009 and you heard the economic results. But there was a great influence and ministers in each office of Borisov and you heard the other results. That is why we hold on to this and we will keep an eye on it and I think it is right and we owe it to the Bulgarian citizens. In conclusion. We really won't support the cabinet. But we will be constructive opposition, as our President said, we will support everything good and we will fight fierce resistance against everything that is not good. I would like to address you with the following words: do not deny what generations have done before you in our latest history 31 years. Because while you were receiving your magnificent education, which almost all of you from "We are continuing the Change" you have, while learning abroad, a generation of Bulgarian politicians, among whom Ahmed Dogan, Georgi Parvanov, did not miss out on some doctor Zhelyo Zhelev, Simeon Saxe-Coburg and so on, Ivan Kostov, guided our country towards our valuable choice and to our geopolitical choice, namely Euro-Atlanticism. Because any denial of previous successes is national nihilism and damage to the image of Bulgaria in the world. With these words, I wish you every success from the heart. We will enjoy the successes because they will be successes for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms has run out of time and is already within the scope of the additional. For a statement? Mr. Dilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u56	Thank you, Honourable Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear guests! Dear future Prime Minister, I will not hide my natural sympathy for you because you are young, energetic, well educated and believe in good intentions. Probably part of this sympathy in me is that I succumb to the charm that traditionally Bulgarians emphasize on the sympathy they feel towards people who are slightly breaking the law. That's all we have left of high-school times, you know, we love people like that. "We love" is the word. That's it. In any case, good luck to you! And now I would like to dwell on a few minor fluctuations that I have, literally perhaps some of them being asked as questions. You, when presenting your intentions and coalition and ruling, used more than once football rhetoric. For example, this will be A team of Bulgaria or that any team that will send players to this national team will be responsible for them. I think even Dimitar Penev would want to say that in the sense that responsibility for the football players in the national team will carry CSKA, "Levski", "Ludogorets" and so on. To ask you specifically. The player in your team Cornelia Ninova plays badly, for example. You will complain to Mrs Cornelia Ninova's party office, i.e. Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who will make a remark to Mrs Cornelia Ninova. It is in the logic of the way in which each party is constructed..... each party is responsible for its ministers. You burden Mrs. Ninova with a very heavy responsibility, despite the fact that very few Bulgarians voted to take part in the government, but we leave this aside the coalition demands it, but you burden her with the responsibility to be a judge and controller of her own... something the Bulgarian Socialist Party has not dealt with particularly skillfully over the years. And to take a word from her statement, to remind you, I'm sure that's what you taught him at Harvard. When a socialist tells you that something will be free, it means that it is free for consumers and double paid for taxpayers, because otherwise it will not work. We heard from Mrs. Ninova that we're going to have free stuff in your department. Let's get back to the "A" team. And the team of Bulgaria at the moment, it seems, rather like... There is a team called "Terrors" from the village of Merchaevo, or the team "Krila" from the village of Byala Reka, Parvomaysko, which was also called "Magareshko Tekme." I don't know why they changed that nice Bulgarian name to the Krela of the Boards. Your A team will have a Minister for Effective Governance. It's like team Krilla of the Boards besides team coaching to hire a football coach. You obviously have some idea for the Minister of Effective Governance, but it remains hidden for now, and in just minutes we will have to vote for it. There's another team like this. It's called the Hidden Force from the village of Mudrevo. In addition to the Minister for Effective Governance, you will also have a Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy. It is as if from the already mentioned team the Krila of the Boards to appoint a coach for the World Football Championship. I think climate policies are too specific for the entire spirit of your cabinet. Perhaps you should have had something more general about the universe balance or dark matter. [[Arrival in GERB-SDS.]] I, frankly, will hardly wait for this minister to swear to write him a letter and say, Mr. Minister, I am very unhappy with climate change lately. Take action! [[Radio, laughter in GERB-SDS.]] To conclude, Dimitar Penev would never build the team that way, no matter what qualities we give him that he doesn't own. But the Pena has other winged lathes that are worth noting. For example, his great sentence to the bus driver of the national team: You have very many ministers from the last seven months, as well as advisors of Mr. Radev, as well as members of his administration. You probably think that the last seven months were a good time for Bulgaria, a good governance. I think you'll find out pretty soon that it wasn't. And not from the media you will understand it, you will understand it from what you will have to deal with very, very soon. I will not really prophesy from this tribune about the fate of your future rule. From now on, it will be very difficult. We have already stated on behalf of our parliamentary group that we will try not to interfere. When we can, we will try to help, but allow my skepticism that this way of assembling an office, you will soon realize that it may have been the worst, the worst. I wish you good luck again! And I see that with climate change, we'll be fine. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. President, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dilov, I am surprised that you already have a third National Assembly and perhaps a fourth, you have not understood BSP's policies. Yeah, we say "free" and we know who pays them. Only BSP says free to whom, paid by whom. And the fact that they were paid twice or three times happened to you. With you, one thing paid by the state was worth three times, and I think that said Mr. Vassilev or Mr. Petkov: "When one lev is one lev, not three levs, there will be for all policies. "I mean, you support the future policy of the government that corruption must be stopped and everything to be paid as much as it costs. And that there will be free textbooks, free kindergartens, free cribs, there will be them and we will pay them all, but the parents will be calm for their children, the pensioners will be calm about their old age. About who is responsible in the BSP. Unlike GERB, BSP has its management bodies. There are authorities who are responsible for the fact that Ninova or any minister will do something, the authority will take account of this thing. And otherwise, there's no way a good player on his club team isn't a good player on the national team. I don't know why you were worried about Mrs. Ninova being a weak minister? I think she proved it as a leader of the BSP. Now he'll prove it as deputy prime minister of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u59	A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u60	Dear Mr. Dilov, to speak precisely you of party unity and party responsibility from GERB-SDS, where nothing, I stress, nothing could have happened without the good of the chief from the minister to the cleaning lady in the ministry, is just ridiculous. I know you're gonna tell me that you're from George Day, but there's no way to understand it, because they didn't even put your party in the name of the coalition. So I advise you not to deal with BSP! BSP is a organized party. BSP has its forms of control and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u61	Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u62	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mrs. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, guests and media! What demagos are the representatives of GERB know all the new parties and the old ones. A few moments ago, their representatives, as Mr. Dilov, spoke passionately, spoke with an aplomb, spoke with many things, but one of the people who spoke them was a paratrooper in GERB party by an officer from the Bulgarian Communist Party, who was the leader of the state for 10 years. The same people now see how they speak in 2021 when the new cabinet of the Republic of Bulgaria is drawn up. But I would like to say something, because my colleagues before me have touched on the subject of our party and how everyone who interferes with it from other parties gets the necessary and appropriate professional and accurate response. With regard to Dimitar Penev, however, Mr. Dilov, this is a successful man and by quoting him, to quote him myself. When they didn't let... [[Reply from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]] I understand your pain, so I quote Dimitar Penev. It must be hard for you after 12 years of corruption in your government, outrage and everything else, and the facts and heritage that all Bulgarian citizens see and in that order I thought of Dimitar Penev, as you reminded me too. On some journalistic questions when they asked him why they did not allow CSKA to participate in a European tournament 10 minutes before the lot? We are admitted, CSKA is here, but we are allowed to participate with regard to the presence of the participants.................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u63	Thank you. Mr. Dilov, the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last statement was completely incomprehensible to me. I probably don't know. What paratroopers, what are we talking about here?! I've got one or two jumps, Tomislav's got four or five. Maybe we can clear this up. You'll say, I'll answer. On the occasion of the control yes, the difference between the model Borisov and the model you are proposing is to be seen very quickly. Because whatever you are talking about GERB, in the last 12 years, there has been no doubt who is responsible for what is happening, both for the good and for the bad. None at all! It was often painfully clear. Not to remind you how many ministers went away, that some were in prison, that... Right? Did you have it? I don't remember it at your station. Then, for BSP control... [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Make a statement, answer me. For BSP control. I'm sure it's a collective body, it's exercising control over its leadership. We saw it in the escalation of election results and how your leadership took measures and controlled what you received as results in the elections. In the end, I will remind you of only one fact. In fact, Mrs. Nino is very nice to me and I've always talked very politely and well to her, at least she graduated from a great high school. I would remind you that your Prime Minister, Mr. Stanishev, released Mrs. Ninova, to put it mildly, for not dealing with some task, was not it, in your government, which, in the meantime, Tsonev just praised very highly. That's my answer. Thank you for your reply and for giving me the opportunity outside the time of the parliamentary group to practice a little more. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u65	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear compatriots! A good thing is consistency in politics, however, as long as it is not consistent in terms of bad practices followed. When the agreement between the four parties was eventually published, we read it very carefully because we wanted to see what would be different from what we have seen for 12 years and what it could provoke us to support such a draft cabinet. Because in the end, all of us who are gathered here should look first and foremost and only the national interest, and also because I heard the future prime minister talking about national interest a little while ago too. However, when we read this long and broad document, we noticed very serious worrying repetitions with policies that have been implemented for 12 years. We are not talking here about policies that are identified only by personalities, although we are talking about fundamental differences that cannot in any way make us support such a government because they do not coincide with the political ideology of rebirth. Let's start from the fact that there is a figure in the draft cabinet, which is currently in the current government, which identifies and represents the most vivid continuity of the future government with the current and with Borisov's previous government. The Minister of Education Denkov was Minister of Education in Borisov's government for a short time his second cabinet was deputy to Todor Tanev and Kuneva. There is no way to support a government that states policies that are anti-educational. And they're not just stating, they're following. At the moment, a large part of our children are outside the school process, and the government boasts that it aims to involve children in education and return to school. How exactly does this happen, provided that currently one third of the children, and according to official statistics, are outside the educational process? This is a direct follow-up to the same policy that has been destroying the future of our children for the third school year. One of the things that was stated at the beginning of the negotiations was that textbooks would be rewritten. I'm the author of a history book. I decided to see exactly what they wanted to rewrite, because that's something I would support. However, it turns out that the draft agreement states that new texts will be introduced in the history books to mark the history of the Roma community in Bulgaria. This is a policy that sets up a division that divides and does not unite the Bulgarian nation, because the Bulgarian nation is united and because in Bulgaria we are all Bulgarians. Similar texts are anti-constitutional and discriminatory against the majority in the country, namely the Bulgarian ethnicity. Next, texts saying that certain positions from the Istanbul Convention will be introduced into the Bulgarian legislation, for which the Constitutional Court clearly and categorically ruled that it is anti-constitutional. The position for entry into the euro area. There should be a referendum on this issue because for each such thesis, a position that concerns the future of Bulgaria and the future of Bulgarian generations far ahead of even a full four-year term, the Bulgarian people should rule, and not temporarily elected MPs here, because we are all temporarily elected here. Bulgarian national interest remains above all else. The green deal. The fact is that there is talk, with a very light hand, about the destruction of the Bulgarian coal industry. At the same time, it is said that there should be no energy dependence. Exactly how, on the condition that we start importing electricity if the power plants are liquidated?! How exactly, provided that there is nowhere written to complete the nuclear power plant "Belene" which is very important to us and I believe that every Bulgarian citizen who wants to produce our own electricity rather than import it from abroad?! Especially in the current situation in which even the future prime minister talks about the fact that no price hike should be allowed for the household since January 1st. Nothing in terms of demographics is the most serious and serious problem. We disappear as a people and as a country. Ten years from now, if this keeps up the depopulation rate, we'll be down another million. Nothing written down in this agreement. Nothing! Nothing! Restrictive measures. The future prime minister says he will issue his first order for the ministers to be admitted to the Council of Ministers with a green certificate. The introduction of such severe discriminatory restrictive measures is contrary to the meaning of the Bulgarian Constitution and is contrary to all other laws. Let no one here in this House be fooled, much less the future government, that we will leave such discriminatory measures without consequences. No one should be placed above the Bulgarian people! No one should take attitude for the good of the Bulgarian people without his knowledge and without his approval! We saw at the very beginning in Mr. Petkov's address something that was nice. The address was to our countrymen abroad. At the same time, I do not see in the cabinet the Ministry for Bulgarians abroad. Bulgaria is one of the few countries in Europe that has a huge diaspora and which does not have a minister for this diaspora. There is an agency that we all know has been turned into a cash register of one of the previous ruling formations in the previous corruption cabinet. Two and a half million Bulgarians are abroad on informal information, which are of Bulgarian citizenship, and so much more are Bulgarians from the traditional Bulgarian diaspora in our old lands: Serbia, Albania, Kosovo, Macedonia, Greece, Turkey, Romania, Moldova, Ukraine, Russia and so on. For them, this government did not find it necessary to separate one minister. On the other hand, we have a Minister for Effective Governance and Innovation. Commendable, but not enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u67	You have less than a minute left, Mr. Kostadinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u68	Yes, thank you. It was nice to hear the words of interest here in the Chamber. Unfortunately, I didn't see them filled with content. When a word sounds only and only as a slogan, it becomes hollow and cliché phrase. We will not support this cabinet because we see in it a government that does not meet the Bulgarian national interests, and most importantly, because we see a continuation of GERB's previous policies. Resurrection has been on the streets for years and has been struggling with the previous government, clearly and categorically saying that we cannot agree with his policy. We have no stronger argument than the one we are currently using to not support the current cabinet, because the cabinet must be broadcast with the clear feeling that only Bulgarian citizens are behind it, not foreign embassies, and not to be under the impression that it is right by foreign diplomats in foreign legacies.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u69	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u71	And thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Yavor Bozhankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kostadinov, it is one thing to criticize the cabinet on the ground, it is another to make honest suggestions. A lot of your guys were like that. I will refer specifically to one with regard to the Istanbul Convention. Yes, there we have an effective decision of the Constitutional Court. And no, it does not lie in the coalition agreement. "Every controversial element of it is not subject to the coalition agreement and everyone who has read it knows this, but only the policies regarding domestic violence, which our parliamentary group has long defended, which we want to implement in domestic legislation. And if someone here, including you, Mr. Kostadinov, is denying that Bulgaria has a serious problem with domestic violence, then see the latest news about how many people, how many Bulgarian women have lost their lives, how many children have become victims of domestic violence and where Bulgaria stands in the world rankings in this regard. And think about it another time when you're making a suggestion with the sole purpose of attacking a future government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u73	Any other lines? [[DPS lines.]] Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u74	Mr. Bojankov, I must be one of the people who are not among the many who have read this long, long and quite long document. I am aware of which of the texts have been rejected by our Constitutional Court and I am also aware that our legislation currently provides quite good protection for victims of domestic violence. By the way, there is indeed such a problem, no one denies it, but I also think that this problem is easily solved enough with the powers and capabilities of the Bulgarian legal thought... what we have as capacity in our country is more than enough to rely on texts adopted outside Bulgaria. And I don't see the point of looking for support in a document that, on top of that, has been and turned into one of the biggest scandals of the past perhaps four or five years - one of the major scandals of the previous management of GERB, provided that, again, I repeat, in our practice and in our legal thought, and even if you are here, among the lawmakers, there are enough good specialists who, if it is assumed that it should be addressed in this direction more strongly to the violent and even more decisively in the direction of protection and protection of the interests of the victims of such violence, what is the problem to do it? And why should we refer to this already disabling Convention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u75	Thank you. For speech I have recorded the MPs Rumen Hristov and Hristo Ivanov. I give the first word to Mr. Ivanov, because the GERB SDS already had two speeches. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues, honored guests! Allow me to state the arguments with which "Democratic Bulgaria" will support the proposed cabinet composition of Prime Minister and Prime Minister ministers. First of all, this cabinet deserves to be supported because at the moment this is the best chance that Bulgaria has to have an effective regular government after many months of failure to do so. This is extremely important and something that engages us. We are happy to support the mandate carrier and the proposed candidate for prime minister. As far as we can see, we are continuing the Change... what the majority of Bulgarian citizens have seen in them is a political force that can hope.. unburdened with current political difficulties, to really launch a process of deep transformation, which the Bulgarian state, its institutions and the Bulgarian economy need in order to realize the potential of the country, and this is very important. We support the proposed agreement, we signed it. It was achieved by the mandate carrier in direct negotiations with the other political formations that will support this governance as the realistic opportunity at this time, and because we see in this implementation of several very important political objectives for us. First of all, this agreement allows the formation of not just a majority, which today chooses a cabinet, but a majority that is structured around a written agreement that allows Bulgaria to be managed without depending on the votes of GERB and DPS. This is a strategically important goal for us to provide an opportunity. This is only a prerequisite, it does not realize anti-corruption policies, but it is an important prerequisite for Bulgaria to start implementing anti-corruption policies and from this point of view deserves our support. This coalition agreement contains numerous requests. It, and let's be honest, contains in it and many topics that are left to be clarified in the process of work. This is practically pragmatic possible in this window and at this time. Here I want to call it by its name, this is possible, it will suggest a continuing debate and it is very important because it means that this management.. may actually be able to say that some of its imperfections, even that it is such a complex coalition, that there are so many fields in the agreement that are yet to be cleared in conversation, in debate, is a guarantee that this governance will not be able to concentrate power within itself. And that's what we really need. We need a government that understands its survival through the return of power, not through the concentration of power as it has been over the years. And in this sense, even some of the things for which this government can be criticised are, in fact, an opportunity for Bulgaria to become an increasingly free country, an opportunity for Parliament's role to return, and that is very important to us. It is very important for us to support this governance, because the written agreement goes with one construction in the Council of Ministers, which is not optimal, but is complicated, but it cannot be another when you have four so different formations supporting it. It lays down guarantee mechanisms for a certain burden, I wouldn't say counterweight, I wouldn't say control, but for a debate, for everyone to know what's going on and all together to discuss what's going on. This is an opportunity for us to have a fundamentally different governance. It doesn't guarantee that. It's up to all of us to participate in this process. We from "Democratic Bulgaria" enter and give support precisely because we intend to contribute to having a government, which is fundamentally more transparent, fundamentally more open in the very process of planning what it intends to do, fundamentally based precisely on the principle that power should return to society and not concentrate on the position of the prime minister and a circle around it, as we have seen so far. It is therefore worth supporting this government for us. Like any compromise, and the one who achieved the mandate carriers, I think leaves each of the participants with some sort of dissatisfaction, which one says, this is a good possible compromise. They enter this majority of four parties that are extremely different, and they will remain different. We will not abandon our differences of deep, philosophical, doctrinal differences, for example, with BSP colleagues. And this need, in any situation, to look for the middle road will ensure that this government will be central government, one that can actually serve the large majority of Bulgarian citizens regardless of the differences they have among themselves. This is also very important if we manage to implement it. It's not an easy task. We have a prerequisite for her. We have to implement it, and we will work for it. We also support it because we can contribute. I won't talk about that we're guarantors of something. We want to make a contribution to the next government, especially in the field of three policies, which for us from "Democratic Bulgaria" have always been very important. First of all, it's about what I accept Mr. Dilov's humor about climate change. Bulgaria has been turning a blind eye to this reality for too long. And not just for the reality of what is happening to the planet, but for the reality of the fact that the economy, technology is changing and they are changing in the direction of a whole new philosophy of making an economy, and how technology is linked to economic development. Everywhere now we see European governments adopting these green policies as horizontal policies, so it is necessary to have such a deputy prime minister and this is adequate to the course of many European governments, including in Germany at the moment. This ministry, I am glad that it will be headed by one person who represents a movement of Bulgarian nature conservation movement, which for a very long time in streets and squares, in courtrooms struggled to protect the natural environment in Bulgaria. This is a very good sign for the development of Bulgarian democracy. We will also be able to contribute to the implementation of electronic governance along with the Deputy Prime Minister for Good Governance. I also appreciate the humor, but it's not appropriate. Yes, Bulgaria needs good governance. And yes, it's not every government to be good. In order for a governance to be good, a concentrated effort must be made to exploit all the possibilities of modern technologies and achievements of European democracy in order to really move the Bulgarian administration from the current state, which has frozen somewhere between the 19th century and the end of the Todor-Zivkova era to move it into the 21st century. We can do it, we have to do it, we owe it to ourselves, and there is a team that I am very happy to do, and we are making a contribution to it, which will set this ambitious goal if, of course, we all support it. And last but not least, the judicial reform. Many times there is talk about the need for an independent court in Bulgaria. Thank God this is coming to light. We from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria hope to make a contribution in this regard. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister-designate has brought forward the need for constitutional reform that we all here will have to work for. Because Bulgaria should finally start making a deep judicial reform. That's what our citizens tell us, that's what our partners tell us. The implementation of the Recovery Plan depends on it... specifically, explicitly, not just the rule of law, Mr. Geshev. It depends on us having a state's attorney accountable, and this begins with one resignation "Your resignation," Mr. Geshev. [[Applause from DB.]] We have to get it. You are here and I allow myself to address you: free Bulgaria from yourself, free the Bulgarian prosecutors from yourself. Let the Bulgarian society be able to begin the reform of the prosecution in depth together with the Bulgarian prosecutors, free of this model, which you represent at the moment, but has not started with you, of course. All these are reasons to believe that we have a chance with this government. It will be complicated, it has enormous complexity in front of it, which it faces, but we believe that it has a chance to really start a deep transformation of our country and we want to contribute to it. We believe that with our help and with the help of all the other colleagues, we can change the country. Therefore, in the name of this hope we will give our vote today for this government, for this composition of the Council of Ministers and for Mr. Petkov as prime minister. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Hristov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It goes to the choice of a left-liberal government that we will not support. We won't support him for several reasons. First of all, because we have stated our clear and firm position that we will be opposition, but demanding opposition. Secondly, because our main opponent is present inside the Bulgarian Socialist Party. The government is composed of four formations, meaning it has three golden fingers and one strong external influence by President Radev with his six government representatives. However, I do not have an answer to the question, so they have decided, so they have done the coalition, the colleagues do what they do until recently our colleagues from "Democrats for strong Bulgaria" specifically, which, by the way, are very consistent. They supported Mrs. Maya Manolova as mayor of Sofia, then received votes from BSP for the election of their eight district mayors again from BSP, subsequently worked for the left-wing candidate Mr. Radev and did not support Mr. Lozan Panov and now together in a coalition with BSP. From this point of view, I strongly state that in this Parliament, the only right of the conservative right is GERB SDS. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. A line from the National Representative Alexander Simov: "Bravo!"]] I don't accept the opinion that there is no left-hand side right-hand side. On the contrary, there's a left, there's a right. This is the classics, and it will continue. Dear Mr. candidate for Prime Minister Petkov, I, as the only representative of the first democratic government, that of Philip Dimitrov, whom I very much respect, although in my capacity as Deputy Minister then, would advise you quite friendly: we were at your age just as enthusiastic, so quickly we would make the changes to not live with a sense of uniqueness, because all governments in those years have left something positive for this country. Yes, we have made mistakes, but I can proudly say that the party that changed Bulgaria has given something for what happened in Bulgaria. [[(Noise and shouts from BSP for ……]] Gentlemen on the left, you're pulling my tongue. I was the one who solved the cereal crisis that you guys had. You've bankrupted 17 banks and you've made 3,000 leva... [[(Noise and shouts from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Eee!" (Applause from GERB-SDS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u79	Basically...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u80	...a salary of three dollars, and pensions of less. So do not replicate me, please, because you work very well, and always after your management there are crises. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I don't wish that on you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Bon voyage! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u81	Thank you. Were you speaking, Mr. Cholakov? Mrs. Sacheva, you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u82	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u83	I don't see any lines. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u84	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and ministers! The third parliamentary elections in a calendar year have led our country to a factual inability to create a government that has a clear ideology and which sets concrete measurable goals for what Bulgaria wants to have in four years. This is a clear statement of the quick-stack coalition agreement in which we do not see any goals or indicators. All we have left is the reference to Germany. In fact, it is a coalition of four parties, plus a presidential quota, which offers us a government with three factions, corporate, party and openly militia. Corporate in the face of the owner of one of the largest courier companies in the country and the chairman of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union, which will have to manage a billion health budget, in which 37% of the expenditure goes for medicines. Party in the face of the leader of the almost meltdown to the point of deletion of the Bulgarian Socialist Party - a party that has failed Bulgaria several times today - will manage its economy. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A special quota by President Rumen Radev in the face of the power ministers, who will obviously follow the President's orders from all the others, including the prime minister. The short-sighted behavior of the so-called parties of the protest has led to their being swept away by the people whose artificial image they inflated, and fully in accordance with the life's maxim: The revolutions ate up their children! "Today everyone is squeezing their eyes, clenching their teeth before the the theft of intellectual property, violations of the Constitution, the minor results of the economic measures of the caretaker government, the thunderous failure of investments in electric cars, the lack of mythical 600 foreign investors. The lack of trust between coalition partners is more than obvious. It is no coincidence that five Deputy Prime Ministers are offered in the structure of the Council of Ministers. One of them will be a supervice prime minister and co-premiere. But even more interesting will be the role of the Deputy Prime Minister in effective governance, as if effective governance should not be the goal and commitment of every minister. The structure of the Council of Ministers needed reform and we of the Political Party GERB have repeatedly applied in this direction, including in our election program. For example, we proposed that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy be divided into the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Labour and Industrial Relations. Such a separation would make much more sense than subtracting innovation from the economy. Dividing growth and innovation from the economy is an absurd idea that will lead to even greater fragmentation. The future Ministry of Growth and Innovation is likely to seize all available resources to manage the economy, so BSP will obviously only be with the big plate. According to estimates, the funds envisaged for research and innovation in the various programmes and instruments are more than 6,65 billion. lv. and they will be skillfully concentrated in the hands of "We continue the Change" as quickly and technically the current candidate for prime minister managed to embezzle the Bulgarian Development Bank for single government. In fact, we are continuing the Change, within the framework of this same office will manage Sofia Tech Park, BBI, Financial Instruments Manager, Bulgarian Investment Agency, so that the total budget reaches up to 12 billion. lv. Like I said, the only thing left for BSP is the sign. It is also not clear how do requests for reduction of state administration correspond with the creation of new ministries and agencies? The state administration at central level is exactly 56 thousand people, as shown by NSI statistics. The commitment to cut 30,000 by the end of 2022 means that more than 50% of the public administration will be destroyed. This shows, in fact, a misunderstanding of the role of the administration and unacceptable interference in the executive capacity of the state, because it is clear to all that it is not precisely the new politicians that will be the bike of effective action in the realization of the so-called agreement by the mall. For every reasonable person, it becomes clear that power is seen as pie. It is distributed on portions, not on functional responsibilities, and in this sense, expected to satisfy the most beneficial party and quota appetites. Therefore, I can safely conclude with the paraphrase of the Bible's statement: "By the structure you will recognize them. " - It is clear to us and therefore we will not support it, but it will soon become visible to the citizens as well. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u85	Thank you. Are there lines? I won't. To speak, I give the floor to Stoil Stoilov from "We continue the Change."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u86	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, honourable representatives of faiths, Your Excellencies, Madam President of the Constitutional Court and Judges of the Constitutional Court, Dear Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, Dear representatives of the judiciary, Members of the National Assembly and Dear Guests! I thank my fellow Members who have spoken so far with constructive criticism of the proposed composition of the Council of Ministers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that what is happening is a new way to conduct a policy through transparency. From the beginning of our campaign we were in the squares, in the streets, talking to people directly, we found out about their problems and the irregularities in different parts of the country. Having won the elections, we have conducted public negotiations in front of cameras with our coalition partners, and thanks to these negotiations we can now hear your concrete proposals on how our proposed policies can be improved, for which we thank you. The negotiations were in 18 portfolios, more than 90 hours of negotiations and seen over two million times. Tell me those of you who said that this has been seen before when has there been full public negotiations for government in front of cameras and in front of the whole society? I don't think this has ever happened before. We showed and thanked Kiril Petkov and our colleagues for showing how completely transparent and public government negotiations can be conducted in the interests of the people. Everything negotiated and signed is available on the Internet and distributed on all media. And I want to end with this: such transparency can only afford free people free from addictions that fully act in the interests of the people. Thank you and I would like to move on to a vote on the draft cabinet. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. For a line? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, honourable colleagues! I'm saving the address to save time. I would like to address the new colleagues in the Chamber who have studied at universities in Europe and in the United States, who have Western education and education and promise that they will bring democratic culture and values into the political life of Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, I have also studied in Europe long before you. Meanwhile, tens of thousands of Bulgarian boys and girls have studied and studied in Europe and all of our parents have broken out of their mouths in the hope that we will learn something and bring European values to Bulgaria, including democratic values. I know what you've been studying, I know what you've seen, and let me remind you of some of the things you've been studying and the things you've seen. First of all, what you have certainly seen there is that it is not possible for a Western European or American politician to violate the Constitution or laws and remain in politics. That's not possible! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Surely you know that, and you have seen it there, too, that you cannot a politician, a minister, use a language of hatred, stigmatize public groups and remain in politics, this is not possible. You certainly know that in many western languages, the expressions "make it go" and "big job" are meaningly untranslated, especially when it comes to breaking the laws and these principles that we are talking about. I thought, I tell you frankly that Mr. Petkov, who has studied at a prestigious university and is familiar with Western political practices, could have listened to reasonable voices, including in this Chamber, who advised him not to rush into high state positions before some questions were clarified. However, it seems stronger were the voices of those who told him: "Don't worry, we will smash the opposition and silence every voice that will allow itself to ask uncomfortable questions. " Here I will remind you of one more thing that you have been taught in the West, colleagues, and this is the tolerance of tolerance to the other opinion, respect for the other. In the democratic world, everyone respects the other opinion and does not think that it can be muffled with repression, dictators, fear. Furthermore, as you know, in democratic societies it is politically incorrect to make generalisations, as we have already mentioned. Such thinking is politically incorrect, non-European and reprehensible. In the draft cabinet there are people who want to smash the opposition, to silence other opinions, to rule with repression, dictations, fear. You who have studied and lived in Europe know that this is not European. And because the personnel of the government are making a demonstration of disregard for the law and intolerance, we cannot and will not support such a government. Since we still need to think positively and we are brought up and positive people, let me say what I think is positive for the country and for the society in this whole unpleasant situation. The positive thing is that Mr. Kiril Petkov, head of the executive power, has no choice but to be the first watchman of the Constitution and the laws. Do not succumb, Mr. Petkov, to the voices of the sirens, including in your future cabinet, who will whisper to you that you can rule a European country with an extremely free-thinking people through repression, dictatorships, fear. The Bulgarian ship is currently passing between Scylla and Haribda. On one side is the danger of dictatorship, on the other is anarchy. Tie yourself to the mast, strictly observe the Constitution and the laws and respect the opposition. I am sure, colleagues of the ruling majority, that from now on you, because you are educated and educated in democratic values, will strictly respect the value of political pluralism. That, by the way, is in art. 11 of the Bulgarian Constitution, in which soon some people will swear once again. I'm counting on you to help explain what we've been taught at prestigious Western universities from now on, and you will assure us with your future actions that you've learned what we've learned. And I hope it doesn't turn out that our parents spent their money in vain to study us abroad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u89	Thank you. Come in for a cue, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Cholakov, I have been listening to constant lies and attacks against Mr. Kiril Petkov for two months now, just Cyril to me. [[(Loud noise. (Laughter)]] Lies, demagogy, manipulation, false news are the ugly face of an already past time, which the Bulgarian voters said clearly and clearly: [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Twelve years in power and total lack of connection with reality and real Bulgarian citizens make you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u91	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u92	...blind to the potential of our society a society in which Cyril is one of many. Kiril is one of those young, proud, educated and talented people that you never noticed and did not allow to develop and show their talent because, you see, people like us and like Mr. Kiril Petkov, we don't want to be servants to corrupt schemes, we also don't want to be part of a vassal addiction. Kiril Petkov is the dream of thousands of Bulgarians for the coming years in the lives of all of us... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u93	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u94	...for a decent life here in Bulgaria. As we said, the new, young people, together with Kiril Petkov, are now on stage. Born in the 1980s, the 1990s, we had nothing to do with the demons of the past. And yes, we are the people who will make Bulgaria a homeland in the first place. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u96	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Cholakov! I'm looking very nervous on this side, a lot of nervousness, but you're all forgetting one thing. The assessment of what's happening was given on November 14th and the evaluation is the first parliamentary power of. Also, you are very troubled by Mr. President Radev, but on November 21st he broke your candidate and people very clearly said that they wanted a change. [[Applause.]] This change will come, whether you like it or not, it is here, today we will vote it and start today. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there a third line? There's no third line. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u98	I'm forced to make a douche. I was going to keep the good tone, but Mr. Ananiev, my colleagues just reminded me that I was not involved then, of course, in the government that you were a coalition partner in the government of Borisov 2. Dear Mr. Petkov, I hope, sincerely hope that you understand what I said. You don't need these dithirambi remind me of some other times, I'm a very old man now and I remember how it was at the time of the Komsomol. I hope we have passed these times and talked business, as is said in Western Europe, by the way. We try to be business and we will try to be business all the time. We know the Constitutional Court's decision, we can't go around it, we know there are other procedures. As my colleague Dilov said, the Bulgarian historical practice likes hidutism. But I'm sure you don't want to live in a country like this either. We want to live in a country that respects the law in which people are respected, where there is a normal, calm discussion where views are heard and where no majority abuses the minority forcefully. Moreover, we know that history is a very long process. Today's minority can become a majority tomorrow, as has happened many times. I specifically said you have a huge responsibility, much greater than anyone else. You must be an example of keeping the law. And I believe you realize that, and I believe you will. I believe that you will fulfill with meaning this idea that you must obey the law as the first in the country. And I wish you every success in this regard.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u99	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. To speak, Victoria Vassileva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u100	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President and Mrs. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! Today we are choosing not just a government of Bulgaria. Today we are choosing a government that will have the heavy task of bringing Bulgaria out of several extremely severe crises. We understand the full responsibility that will lie on the shoulders of our colleagues in the future Council of Ministers. And we don't just understand that responsibility, but we will share it. There is such a people that will support the candidate for Prime Minister and the proposed structure and composition of the future Council of Ministers. In the next Council of Ministers there is such a people taking on extremely heavy portfolios from which everyone is fleeing. But we, as a responsible political party, who has never run away from its responsibility, will do whatever is necessary to prevent the Bulgarian citizens from being ashamed of us. Today the time for slogans, spells and empty promises ends. Starting today, the cases on which we will be judged by Bulgarian citizens begin. We wish the ministers success and what I could assure our coalition partners is that we will be consistent, loyal and correct partners, but we will continue to be genuine, colorful, sometimes sharper, not to save both the good news and the bad news for the government, because the true partnership must be built on principles that I believe we have bet in the signed agreement and that we will all stick together. I wish the new ministers good luck. We will support them within the parliamentary majority, stepping only on clear principles, honesty and consistency. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. - What's the line? There are no lines. Now the People's Representative Toma Bikov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u102	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! One of the positive statements here was Mrs. Simeonova, who said that Mr. Petkov is young, so I, as his set, can be counted to the group of young people. Unlike most of them, however, I do not remember the youth, so I am more moderate in my optimism and in my enthusiasm. In the light of the circumstances of the last six years, I have been part of the ruling majority of four in the ruling majority, two in the Council of Ministers, and I know that what is to come is not easy. Complaining about attacks, attacks, even insults, sometimes is something you shouldn't do today, because that's normal. That's how it's gonna be, that's how it's gonna be in politics. What worries me is that I have the feeling that you are not fully aware of the reality you are facing. Bulgaria is in a very complicated situation, a very difficult situation of a permanent political crisis. The experience of a regular government does not solve the political crisis; the upcoming economic crisis; the developing price crisis; in a very difficult international situation and geopolitical positioning against the Republic of Northern Macedonia. These things cannot be solved with enthusiasm, they can be solved with very serious efforts, and that of the entire Bulgarian society, not only the ruling majority, let alone one or two parties of the majority. These things require mobilization of public energy, and they require mobilization in the positive sense, not directed inwardly into society. Not a gram of Bulgarian energy in these days should go into confrontation, in self-roaring, in rematching, in insults, if you will, and it is up to you alone, it is not up to anyone else. Unfortunately, we see signs that you are not fully aware of this reality and that you will lose only you. As opposition, we have a commitment to be corrective, to criticize, to monitor what you do, to control through parliamentary control. What you are proposing to us today is a coalition government. Let's call it by the real names it is left-liberal because the parties in it are defined as left-hand, the others are obviously liberal. And there's nothing wrong with that, it's part of your ideology. The point is that this ruling majority and this government itself does not have a mandate for deep reforms, simply there is no mandate for a four-party is, four formations participate in it. In order for you to have a mandate for deep, if you will and constitutional, but not only constitutional reforms, you must have received much stronger public support, so was 1997, and by the way, when we talk about change, yes, there was a real change then a real, radical, profound change took place. But it was based on this huge majority of Bulgarian citizens, which had supported the then government of Ivan Kostov. Therefore, your only option, if you want to make any more serious changes, is to include the opposition in them. That's not gonna happen with insults. Our parliamentary group sees a strong sign in Mr. Boyko Rashkov's nomination as Interior Minister. As long as this man is Home Secretary, you will not be able to rely on our support. This is our position and this is our right. As soon as you rethink this position, we can talk to you and we can be constructive, we can help you with whatever you want, as long as it matches our concept. We are not a left-liberal formation, we have deep ideological differences with you and you will see it. Our profile is a right-wing conservative party that protects above all Bulgarian national interest, puts Bulgaria above all else and we will defend these principles in the Forty-seventh National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u103	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Any lines to Mr. Bikov? There are no lines. To speak, Lena Borislavova, we continue the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u104	Dear colleagues, dear guests! First, I would like to thank the experienced opposition, which for 12 years has shown us how it is not managed well and what mistakes we should be guarded against. I do not want to deny the good things they have achieved, but I also cannot close my eyes for telling us how 85 million are stolen in the municipality of Varna, so that 57 million can be drawn into cash for the construction of a highway that has not happened for 12 years, and how many other laws can be broken and spoken at the same time about the rule of law. The Bulgarian language knows one phrase: The Thief cries out: hold the thief! "I would be glad if all of us here together turn a new page, in which both opposition and a parliamentary majority refer critically to any violation and the law. I would be delighted if the criticism you call on us to respect the laws you apply to your own ranks of things that all European and international partners condemn us to. I would be happy if we didn't stop our European funding because we couldn't conduct the same judicial reform for 12 years. At the same time, I would like to say, honourable Members, fellow citizens, that my fellow Members and I have accepted the challenge and the heavy task that has been voted on us by the Bulgarian people. Yes, we are young and we are well aware of the situation we are facing. Today, December 13th, we are here and ready. We are ready to be in this Chamber and to do our best with those who want to support the right decisions, whether they are the ruling majority or opposition. We're ready to work with anyone who really cares and wants to do something good not just for himself, but for someone else. We're ready to go through all the catch and attack, yellow news, and honest lies. We are ready to give new meaning to the notions of the People's Representative. The feeling is not of trembling expectation, the feeling is of deep personal responsibility. Today we vote on the Petkov cabinet. We're ready. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Borislavova. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? This is your last speech. Be more energetic, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of the National Assembly, dear guests! Dear Mr. Petkov, candidate for Prime Minister today, first of all, I must wish you success! If you suspect me that political interest goes through your failure, let me remind you that before I am a politician, I am a Bulgarian citizen and I want the Bulgarian government to cope and Bulgaria to develop. So today, I promise to help you, I will point out every mistake you make, I will offer alternative solutions, I will try to fill you with a maximum dose of realism. And I say it very well because one of the worst political diseases is the loss of a relationship with reality. I'll ask questions. All this is a guarantee of a better governance, although at the level of structural prerequisites such guarantees are not available. This is not a coalition based on similar objectives and priorities, there are no ideological similarities in it. On the contrary, there is antagonism and not to comment that there are political forces that do not have a clear ideology. If there's a soldering element in this coalition, it's hate. It's just that you all don't like someone else together, and that's quite enough, I admit. That's enough to form a government. The big question is whether it will be enough to manage, and good. There's nothing worse than unsolicited support and unsolicited advice. That's why I'm not giving you advice today. A few more inappropriate things, inappropriate, because I say them in order to repeat them in the near future and remind them of what I said. Firstly, dismembering state structures to fit coalition agreements is a mistake. This is a mistake. The founding of a company is a very short process. It may be nice to be even shorter, but the creation of a public institution takes months.. Ministry, agency, unfortunately, sometimes takes more than half a year. It is absolutely understandable your desire to head the state apparatus. I repeat, this is normal, whether we call it scratching or changing. If I am worried about something here, it is the desire for the Bulgarian state to reinvent itself for the fourth time. And to remind you that we parties have many and each is an alternative to the other, but we do not have an alternative country, we only have one. The fact that you promised everything to the Bulgarians is not really everything, I note that there is no ambition for a piloted flight to the moon and close planets. But the fact that you promised everything to the Bulgarians is a mistake. My political experience shows that when you promise everything, you will be asked twice in all things for the peculiarity of our people. Your self-confidence is impressive and I say it with good, because in difficult times the only thing that will give you support is faith in yourself. But remember, there's no one who's always right about everything. I won't! Neither am I. History shows it. You will manage a complex coalition consisting of four parties, some of which in themselves are coalitions. The differences in parties' positions are inevitable.. there will even be a confrontation, and this is normal. What's complicated is that you're responsible for finding solutions. That's what authority tells us. That's what strong leadership is all about. If you have weak ministers, they will not be the problem of the parties that broadcast them, they will be your problem. And I very much hope that, as you were saying, it is perhaps a quote to get Bulgaria out of the hands of corruption. Corruption is a problem for the Bulgarian society and state for more than centuries. I very much hope that while you're pulling her out, she doesn't end up in the illusion of the realm of chaos. Today I was obliged to warn you of all this. I must wish you good luck today. And today I have to vote against, because when everyone thinks the same way, it's a sure guarantee that someone doesn't think. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Are there lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Donchev! Hate is not a vice, but it's not the only thing that unites us. The coalition is united by the desire to change something in a positive direction. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u109	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Donchev's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u110	I don't know in classical theology if hatred is a vice. I'm not inclined to argue about that. The big hate problem, do you know what it is? That hatred is not a goal, it is a lack of purpose. And hatred can't produce anything. Hate only gives birth to more hate. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u111	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Are there any more speeches? I won't. For a statement, Mr. Vassilev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I promise I'll be brief. We have heard many words that it was a coalition of hatred, a left-liberal coalition and any other such good talk that there were four incompatible parties, that what is currently voted as a cabinet, was an eagle, cancer and pike. Am I missing something? That we are people who instill fear that we will crush the opposition and that the situation is unpleasant according to Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Bikov is worried about revenge. He asked us not to add insults and asked us not to engage in confrontation. Did we miss anything from today's debate? I promise I won't take offenses and I won't go into confrontation. Perhaps the colleagues of GERB have not understood.. I want to explain clearly what is at the heart of this coalition. At the heart of this coalition is a deep anti-corruption program. [[Applause from "We continue the Change" and shouts: "Bravo!"]] A deep anti-corruption program, which is necessary enough, and so necessary for the Bulgarian society, that parties that sit for decades in the different spectrum from the left most to the right, are ready to put aside their own interests to hold this deep anti-corruption program. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] At the heart of this coalition in front of all Bulgarian citizens four very different parties, as you mentioned, put aside the differences and sought the common. What we can all unite for, in the name of which we will work for the next four years, so that not only corruption will be stopped, but that we can ensure decent old age for our pensioners, secure well-paid jobs and develop our economy, fix our education, which has been sunk over the past 12 years, and build a country that does not sit on the shameful lists of the world, such as the Magnitskys, but a country that is in the first places of innovation, in culture, tourism, sport, in every field, and a country that we are all to be proud of. That's what this coalition has in common. If you don't like it, don't vote for it. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u113	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We are going to vote on the items on the agenda. First of all: Project! DECISION to select Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 6 and art. 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with Decree No 290 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria of 11 December 2021. HAS DECIDED He elected Kiril Petkov Petkov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Colleagues, please vote. They voted 238 MPs: 134 against 104, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Extreme applauses from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", INN and DB.]] Here's an explanation of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Perhaps it is easy to explain why you voted against Mr. Kiril Petkov's candidacy as Prime Minister of Bulgaria is to say that a person who deliberately violated the Constitution should not be prime minister of one country and that this is a bad start of a political path that promises rule of law and law. However, I will be sincere and tell you why I actually voted against, partly in response to the emotional speech during the debates of my friend Mr. Hristo Petrov. I voted against this government, this prime minister, for one simple reason. Because it's red. Because it is the work of the red President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rumen Radev. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because it includes the red Bulgarian Socialist Party, which never gave up its communist past. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because it includes old Red Mages, like Mr. Boyko Rashkov, and young red hopes...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u115	No offense! No offense, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u116	...like Mrs Cornelia Ninova. Because in politics, ladies and gentlemen, there is left and right, there is blue and red, and those who stand on the left side of the Bulgarian political fault must and will pay the political price for it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u117	Is there another explanation? I won't. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Dear Guests! Mr. Chairman, on this solemn day, on which the government of Bulgaria is elected, please follow the Rules of Procedure and remove from the Chamber the previously spoken colleague who insulted both the Minister of Interior and the Chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP and others present in the Chamber. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Therefore, I ask you to apply the Rules strictly, as we have adopted it, and to remove from this House the Member from GERB who spoke.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u119	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. We're not going to remove anyone for the moment, but I'm appealing for a good tone. That's it. Let's move on to the second vote. Project! DECISION adopting a structure of Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Article 7 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria consists of a Prime Minister, five Deputy Prime Ministers and ministers. The ministers run separate ministries. 2. Ministers are: Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Economy and Industry; Ministry of Environment and Water; Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; Ministry of Interior; Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; Ministry of Defence; Ministry of Justice; Ministry of Education and Science; Ministry of Health; Ministry of Culture; Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Transport and Communications; Ministry of Innovation and Growth; Ministry of Electronic Governance; Ministry of Energy; Ministry of Tourism and Ministry of Sport. 3. Transformed: Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications in Ministry of Transport and Communications; Ministry of Youth and Sport in Ministry of Sport; Ministry of Economy is divided into Ministry of Economy and Industry and Ministry of Innovation and Growth. 4. The Ministry of Electronic Governance is hereby established. 5. Instructs the Council of Ministers, within one month, to arrange all matters relating to the establishment and transformation of ministries, including their functions. Colleagues, please vote. They voted 238 MPs: 134 against 104, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", INN and SG.]] Explanation of a negative vote.. Ekaterina Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u120	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mrs. Vice President, I'm going to adjourn my fellow Members! Congratulations to Mr. Petkov! I couldn't help but take the floor. I'll try to be brief, because I only have two minutes. Colleagues, you've created an absolute mouse. You have blocked the work of the state administration, at least half, in the most optimistic scenario in six months. You created the largest structure. Congratulations! Only Lukanov's government was with one minister more than you. Congratulations! But that wouldn't have mattered if it had been created on a principle basis. If it were designed for the purpose of having better, better management, more control and all that you have declared here that you are striving for. You have stated many times that this government will not be on a quota basis. Except, guys, it's exactly square. It is obvious that the crushing, the transfer of structures from one ministry to another, to a prime minister, without any logic. Or perhaps only logic: because the Ministry of Agriculture, for example, has not fallen into the right coalition partner and therefore the Forests Agency and the Food Safety Agency will be with the Prime Minister? It doesn't make any other sense. I wonder what the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance is going to do. It is rather clear to me perhaps what it will do, but what will the Minister of Electronic Governance do, provided that the Deputy Prime Minister of Effective Governance will deal with the registers? With the registers! And what is the reason, and why not all the registers are to him?! Is it because part of the ministries fell into the wrong coalition partner and should therefore be to the Deputy Prime Minister of the European Union?! Once again, I will conclude this: neither more quality nor more effective, but, on the contrary, the blockage of work for a minimum of six months, the swelling of political offices to unseen even during the triple coalition heights and the adjustment of the quota principle in some negotiations. I don't know where they're being led, but it certainly wasn't at the mall the negotiations we see here as a composition. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u121	Thank you. Hristo Gazhev, an explanation of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and future ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria! My negative vote is in several ways. Two of the things that are missing for me in this composition is Europe. Where is Europe in this structure? Mr. Asen Vassilev, as far as I understand, went the EU funds, but Europe, as we know, is not just money. Here the main question is: where is Bulgaria's participation in the European Union going? Where goes the better thing that you all promised, by the way, in your campaign a new model of Bulgaria's participation in the European Union, and at the moment it is missing in the Council of Ministers? The second thing I'm missing is the word "young." Where did youth policies go? For many decades, thousands of young people have devoted hours and years of their lives to fighting to bringing youth policy to the core of the country, and at the moment it just disappeared. Neither as an agency nor as part of the ministry anywhere, there is simply no youth policy. My greater concern, by the way, is not in this composition, but it is in the coalition agreement that you signed all the parties. And it is in one part that all state hospitals go to the Minister of Health. Now there are four state hospitals that are not with the Minister of Health. This is the Ministry of Interior Hospital, Transport Hospital, Sports Hospital and Military Medical Academy. If for the first three I think the ministers will gladly get rid of them, I am surprised at the courage of the future Minister of Defence, who will sign off on the Military Medical Academy to come out of the Armed Forces of the Ministry of Defence and to go to the Ministry of Health and thus destroy some 130 years of tradition, military medical expertise and military medical assistance in the Bulgarian Army. This is a mistake. If you doubt if it's a mistake, the Supreme Commander is also here, you may ask him for his opinion. As on many other matters, ask him about it as well. Don't do it! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u123	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! He closed the stall for selling pink cotton candy today. I voted against because so far you have practically spoken many wonderful wishes that you would like to happen in Bulgaria. A mystery to the whole society is how you will turn these sweet and buying fairy tales into reality. A priority outlined as an urgent measure by Mr. Petkov is overcoming the crisis. Again a wonderful wish, even mandatory for the public. What, though, is reality? The word "covid" is present both in the agreement of over 100 pages and in the legislative framework. Kovid, the crisis is absent from the sector of the Coalition partners in the document signed by the Coalition. I voted against because you are reforming the structure of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members. The change is expressed in something very simple.. concentration of all the financial power of the state in the hands of Prime Minister Petkov and his partner Mr. Vassilev. You centralize the entire portfolio of Bulgaria in the hands of two people. You have signed on the contrary for decentralisation and freedom of distribution of budget funds. Simply put: all money and resources will be concentrated in one place. Dear partners of the PP, you will be waiting for fruits of your work in a robbed bostan. [[(Reply from.) We continue the Change.)]] Do not try to turn the state into a corporation, hedge fund or firm. The state is a complex structure, which has its own and unique logic of management, and most importantly, principles embedded in the Bulgarian Constitution, which, apart from having to be known, must also be respected. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change......................................................................................................]] One sentence. The ugly line of the Fifth Congress of the Bulgarian Workers' Party (Communists) of 1948 is embedded in this improved quotes structure. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u125	Twenty seconds out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u126	... which supports the Soviet political and economic model in Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u127	It has nothing to do with the structure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u128	But sleep peacefully. As the people have said: every curved line...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u129	I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u130	...which is parallel to the party, is right. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u131	Thank you, Professor Angelov. We move on to the third decision. Project! DECISION on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 6 and art. 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Prof. Asen Vassilev for Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance; Kalina Borislavova Konstantinova 2. The powers of the caretaker government appointed by Decree No 244 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria of 14 September 2021, promulgated in the Official Journal of the State, No. 77 of 2021, are terminated. Colleagues, please vote on the draft decision. They voted 238 MPs: 134 against 104, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[The People's Representatives from..We continue the change... BSP for Bulgaria....................................................................................................................................................... Wild and long applause.]] Thank you, colleagues. Let's continue with the explanation of the negative vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am very happy! I am very happy that I, in personal quality and my parliamentary group, are not taking part in this vote and we have not supported this cabinet! Why? For two reasons. The first reason: I do not want to support and will not support Rumen Radev's cabinet. Yes, you will say that this is not true, only the fact that Boyko Rashkov is involved in this cabinet means the following: either you are very naive, or you are playing a well hidden game. Because of this, as my colleagues said earlier: we cannot support such a government! But, colleagues, to tell you frankly, we don't want to! [[Replying, yelling.]] And the second reason: now, explain to me how, explain to me how two or three days at the mall understood people who just a moment ago I was looking at Toshko Yordanov clapping to Mr. Kiril Petkov. Well, wasn't it the man and IN who accused you and your colleague Asen Vasilev of fraud in breaking the Constitution?! How'd you two or three days work it out, guys? How are BSP and Democratic Bulgaria participating in a government? Under duress, colleagues, the answer is coercion because you have seen the last two choices that failed in their attempt to form a government, that you will be punished and this coercion today made you do this government, not because you are concerned about Bulgarian citizens because you want to do something good. And colleagues, change is not always for the best! You know what? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u133	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, former and current members of the Council of Ministers! My procedure is short. Why did I vote against the composition of this Council of Ministers? Firstly, as a right-wing conservative politician, I will not be able to forgive myself for supporting left-liberal governance, which is presented today to the Bulgarian Parliament. Secondly, a large part of the composition of the new cabinet is part of the official governments of Rumen Radev, who bequeathed to Bulgaria not one, not two, but three crises - health, economic and energy, colleagues. Thirdly, in the new coalition, declared with understanding and so on, I will only remind you of a few words: "Assen Vassilev has stolen intellectual property, cannot be a minister! " [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u135	Is that a quote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u136	That's a quote. These are words spoken by this tribune in the Forty-Sixth National Assembly by one of the current coalition partners. Anyone who wants to check it out can. From my memory, Mr. Toshko Yordanov. I wish you success sincerely as a Bulgarian citizen, but I doubt it, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against for one reason and it is that we must not forget, first of all, that our constituents expect us to act as they would if they were in our place. I cannot support a cabinet that has submitted an update of the budget with a clear awareness that we will not receive the money from Europe under the Recovery Plan, guaranteeing us a deficit. I can't support a cabinet that cuts out the sanitization of single-family houses. [[(Noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria: ……]] I cannot support a cabinet that directed funds, Mr. Future Prime Minister, we were with you at the Commission on European Affairs, you with a clear signal, raising your finger, told me that you were to transfer the funds from the large photovoltaic parks topped with batteries to the Bulgarian business, to reach the roofs of the Bulgarian enterprises, not to be poured as investments of foreign companies. I hope that this will at least be fulfilled. Returning the single-family houses as eligible for renovation is a top priority for all political parties, and I hope that the future government will fall into place as well. There is no way that these 12 billion we will receive will not reach, first of all, the Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian business and not least the Bulgarian local authorities, who also suffer from the high prices of electricity, from a kind of crisis. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u139	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. I ask the elected Prime Minister and the elected ministers to order the parliamentary tribune to take an oath. I'll take the oath, please repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-13.u140	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[(World and long applause. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound. (Applause)]] My fellow Members, I hereby close today's session. The next regular session of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly will be held on Wednesday at 9.00 p.m. [[Applause. It's ringing.]]
