ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, since yesterday we were unable to conclude the hearing of Minister Stoycho Katsarov on a topic which is extremely important to society, not less, of course, than the topics we have put forward today, so I propose, as I am also an importer in the hearing of Minister Petkov for the BBI, the hearing of Stoycho Katsarov from the section. 6 from yesterday to pass the place of Minister Petkov and Minister Petkov to come last today for a hearing. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u3	Thank you. I put to the vote this procedural proposal: 3 for today to be the hearing of Stoycho Katsarov and the hearing of Minister Kiril Petkov to be the last point before the parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 208 MPs: 77, against 57, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. For a re-vote, Mrs. Capon? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u4	Dear colleagues, it may not have been clear from my proposal why it is so important today to pass and not to stay for next week, the topic of the children's hospital. So, I'm asking for a re-vote today, the item on the agenda to be included in the BBI's seat. We have a stabilization at the BBI, and I think the situation at the children's hospital is very important. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u5	Thank you. Please, re-election mode. They voted 210 MPs: for 89, against 58, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. The program remains the way it was adopted yesterday. Mr. Balabanov, come in. For a group statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u6	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u7	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of our parliamentary group, we propose a procedural proposal for today's meeting to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u9	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Please, voting mode. Vote 197 MPs: 173 against 7, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov. On behalf of a group, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u10	On behalf of a group. Declaration on behalf of the Political Party There is such a people. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday, from the stands of the National Assembly, the co-chair of "Democratic Bulgaria" Mr. Hristo Ivanov read a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group. This declaration raised ambitions and desires for intervention regarding the composition of the future Council of Ministers and the persons to take up positions in it. Four days before this declaration, initiated by "There is such a people" meeting here, in this National Assembly, the political leadership of our party met with the political leadership of "Democratic Bulgaria." At this meeting, the DB firmly stated that they have no and will not have any claims regarding the individuals who will represent the future executive power. [[Noise and lines.]] We do not know what has happened in the past four days, but this position is clearly radically changed. Mr. Hristo Ivanov from the stands of the National Assembly allowed himself not only to make claims about the cabinet, but pointed out specific individuals who should sit in ministerial chairs. [[Noise and lines.]] He named the following names and these are the ministers from the working office: Asen Vassilev, Kiril Petkov and Nikolay Denkov, because of their expertise and moral purity. Is that so? Here are the facts that are publicly known. Just facts. In 2008, an investor gave 1.5 million. The company's dollar is easy.com, which deals with the sale of airline tickets. There are four partners in the company. The Executive Director is the current Finance Minister Asen Vassilev. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] A few years in a row, due to mismanagement and poor financial results, the investor is forced to constantly pour millions. In 2009, the investor working with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development refused to pour more money and there was a conflict. Then without sanctioning the shareholders, in violation of the law, the CEO Assen Vassilev gives a personal loan to the company and several months later requires the loan back, thereby bankrupting the company. [[Noise and lines. Partial applause.]] Meanwhile, Asen Vassilev has negotiated with Danish investor Martin Lunds and when he went bankrupt, in violation of the contract, he led part of the programmers and founded a new firm Everbrand, which is also in violation of the previous contract. Asen Vassilev's new firm began to develop exactly the same activity as the previous firm and this led to court cases in Amsterdam, London and the United States. In the process of the case in London, forensic technical expertise proves that the new product of Everbrad of Asen Vassilev was made on the basis of a code from a stolen computer personally by Mr. Asen Vassilev. After this expertise was released, after this expertise was released, Mr. Vassilev's lawyers proposed and reached an out-of-court settlement, paying several million dollars, admitting the fact that intellectual property was stolen. [[Loud noise, lines and applause.]] [[noise, lines and laughter]] In our opinion, a person who stole intellectual property, something that has been proven in the London Court, should not be a Bulgarian minister. We understand the meaning of the word "sympathetic," we understand that one person may be sympathetic, but when we talk about people who have public responsibility, we prefer professionals who do not have problems with the law. We rely only on facts and recommend that Mr. Hristo Ivanov be more interested in factology than his own sympathies. [[Applause from IHN, BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Once again I will ask: what happened during these four days that..the Democratic Bulgaria has turned away from its position and suddenly decided to set conditions, to make claims and to try to arrange a cabinet without being the power that has won elections? For us this is surprising and unacceptable and it raises another very important question and it is: what games are played in the Forty-Sixth National Assembly? We have recently become politicians, and now we absolutely understand that politics is a dirty game, but it is only a dirty game if played by dirty people. [[Noise and lines.]] You obviously didn't realize that we wouldn't play by your rules. In any activity, including politics, there must be fundamental meaning for work. Law and morality are our rules. Mr. Hristo Ivanov and Mrs. Maya Manolova, you clearly do not realize that with your actions you make Boyko Borisov happy and rubbing happy hands because you are leading things towards next elections. It's amazing you don't understand that! It's even more amazing if you understand it, and yet you do! But if you keep this up, it's gonna happen, and it's gonna be your fault. It's the truth! [[National representatives of IHN stand up and clap for a long time.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u11	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Any other statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's start with point one for today: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA STEPHAN 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC SITUATION OF THE STATE I give the floor to the question of the importer's hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u12	Honourable President, Prime Minister, Ministers, honourable Members! We asked for a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on the topic of Finance and Economy and what was the situation of the change of cabinet because we believe that the key, one of the most important things for the development of our country, for the welfare of every Bulgarian are precisely the economy and finances. [[Noise.]] We are very pleased today with the fact that only two weeks after the beginning of the work of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly in plenary is located the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Although by law this is normal and so should happen and the problems should be discussed here, a slight reference that the last question to which the previous Prime Minister Borisov answered was November 2019. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u13	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u14	Do you think that's normal? Prime Minister Borisov's last hearing was a year and three-year and four months ago. Do you think that's normal? A few topics I'd like to address at the exhibition. Interesting how it was so that there were always some hundreds of millions and billions left for redistribution, not through the Budget Act, but distributions, which took place by decrees of the Council of Ministers, handed out by the car to the Prime Minister?! Is this thing a normal practice, and is this how public funds can be spent? It is interesting whether the budget has been reduced artificially in order to be able to distribute this money in this way and who has made the decision to spend it? Were these the right municipalities, the right companies? Should these decisions not be taken here in the National Assembly, where they belong? Because the basic law is precisely the budget law, where the priorities of our country's development are defined. Should a normal government not set its priorities in just one year, but at least for a large four-year term? This is how the state is managed, not by handing out funds, from any car of any prime minister. The second topic is the In House Act, which was adopted mainly because of the Ministry of Defence, so that when funds of the military come out, they can be renovated in the fastest way in military factories without a Public Procurement Act, which is normal and is correct and our army is already in serious condition. How did this law begin to be used to give hundreds of millions and billions to state-owned companies that exist only on paper to build highways to deepen the channels in Varna and in Burgas?! Not that that's not necessary, but at what cost is this thing being done?! Isn't this an outrage to the law a perfect food environment for corruption? I think we need to put an end to these outrage that was taking place, to this circumvention of the laws, and in the most important areas of finance and economics. Perhaps the decisions were made elsewhere in the depths of the deep state, and the National Assembly was only used to legitimise decisions elsewhere. Our standard of living is an undisputed criterion in assessing the success or failure of any economic policy. A few facts. According to the data, we are last in the European Union on gross domestic product per capita, last but not least to access and quality of health and education services, and our country has the lowest minimum, medium and maximum pensions, our economy has the lowest competitiveness. Would anyone care to comment on all these topics? In our opinion, our country's unenviable economic situation is due to two main groups of factors. Firstly, lack of adequate economic policy and, secondly, unheard of high levels of corruption on all levels of power. For years the former governors maintained a low share of the budget of gross domestic product compared to our partners from the European Union. That meant between seven and 10 billion. lv. less state resources, which could be directed towards business, public-private partnership or social policies. This should also be added to the low collection of taxes owed to the treasury, especially to large companies found in the friendly circle of government. How can we now discuss the subject of why large companies were at a loss or at a minimum profit and did not pay any taxes? Is that normal?! And the small business, which is about 20%, was subjected to brutal pressure from all the authorities to pay their taxes. I'm glad you started a change in that direction. Secondly, have preliminary estimates shown that billions of leva of public resources have been spent in an opaque, ineffective and essentially corrupt manner? The unknown of the European and even the African widths 90! What were the guarantees of the State to make these advance payments? Because in our opinion, this anti-social approach to the realization of government procurement has another negative effect on the taxpayers' money from normal economic turnover, deprived of financial resources dozens of other companies, slowed economic growth with all the resulting social consequences. Dear colleagues, since I'm running out of time and more...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u15	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u16	I'm sorry, Madam President. I am finishing with this, what is the real financial state of energy, given the huge government spending with questionable return on the construction of the Turkish Stream and the colossal losses of the energy holding? Thank you for having started this discussion, and thank you that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria is in front of the people's representation today. I think this is our country's normal path of development.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Here you are, Prime Minister, to inform the National Assembly on the issues to be heard. You have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you for the opportunity to address you and to answer the question raised by colleague Gutsanov and the BSP group. The issues related to the financial and economic situation of the country are one of the most important because on the basis of the economy, on the basis of the state of the business depends on the collection, respectively what money the state has and what part of this money can divide for social and other programs that are needed within the state budget. In short, I will try to introduce you to the picture that we found when, as early as the inauguration of the official government, we tasked the relevant ministries to make a retrospective of what we found, what the real state is, what our opportunities are within the supposed two or three months to do something and if possible to improve. If there are good practices to continue them, if not, bad practices to be stopped, and accordingly to go towards an open approach, honest to people in terms of both spending public funds and the opportunity to help the economy and business to develop in the right direction towards high added value production, with the necessary capacity and the appropriate imposition of innovative technologies. In terms of finances. The Minister of Finance reviewed the state's situation, revenue and expenditure respectively and the need to update the state budget. The painting that the Minister of Finance found regarding state finances in May was, to say the least, disturbing. There has been a systematic non-collection of tax revenues, subsequent control of companies in the country has been removed, allowing huge deficits in the system to be accumulated, either through fraud or by avoiding payments. The state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 in the first days of the caretaker government found that much of the possibility of restructuring the budget for expenditure not laid down in the State Budget Act for 2021 was spent in the first four months of the year. For example, for the measures 60/40 and for the additional 50 BGN. to pensions, the money invested in the state budget for the whole year was spent in April and the end of May. Since the previous government did not update the budget, the possibilities for additional expenditure were almost exhausted at the time of our inauguration. In digital terms, for illustration only, funds were provided from the central budget on the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget of EUR 164 million for 2021. BGN, of which 638 million lv. to finance activities which were provided for by the State Budget Act and 509 million for financing expenditure which had not been foreseen in the State Budget. This is the painting by the end of April this year. For example, I can give that some 117 million were spent at the time. lv. For the financing of the measure 60/40, around 105 million lv. for the additional 50 BGN. for pensioners in April, about 120 million. lv. to finance employment measures, as well as funds under municipal budgets BGN, and for the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency 22 million. lv. In order to overcome these problems and ensure the continuation of measures to support business and social payments in the months of June, July and August, restructuring has been made on the budgets of secondary officers and this resource has been provided. In order not to put the country in a similar situation in the future, the caretaker government prepared projects to amend and supplement the State Budget Act for 2021, as well as the budgets of the National Insurance Institute and the National Health Insurance Fund, which were approved by the social partners in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Literally this afternoon, the Council of Ministers is about to examine them at an extraordinary meeting so that they can be submitted to the National Assembly as soon as possible. A few words regarding revenue agencies and analysis of the activities of the NRA. This analysis showed that companies that have received public funds from public procurement and payments under government programmes have established a very strong concentration of public funds. In 2020, alone, the State paid private companies 15.8 billion. BGN, of which 3.4 billion lv. are paid to seven companies. This year, three companies received 1.3 billion in the first four months. lv. Public resource. In this regard, inspections of companies and all their subcontractors have started in order to strengthen the public control of the money received by checking the NRA of the large recipients of state resources. As a result of an analysis of the Ministry of Finance, a huge spending of state resources has been found regarding the so-called In House orders. For the period from the beginning of 2019 to the end of April 2021 only, activities worth 8,6 billion were awarded under this method. lv. Recorder in this regard is the Road Infrastructure Agency, which has commissioned 2.4 billion activities. lv. 55 private companies and 3.1 billion. lv. of the state firm............................................................................................................................ These activities are subsequently assigned to subcontractors in a non-transparent manner. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. No public procurement. Another open point in the analysis of the violations is that the Road Infrastructure Agency has concluded repair and maintenance contracts for more than 1.6 billion. lv. For 2021, in the case of an approved budget for the year 382 million BGN, and have made additional commitments for 2022, amounting to more than 1.3 billion. BGN, of course, without the budget for 2022, even if it was submitted as a project to the National Assembly. In the motivation for such types of solutions and activities is written, I quote: Unfortunately, this practice has been used in the last two years. And one more thing I'd like to put your attention to. The low levels established by the National Revenue Agency are consistent with the audit acts. For the period 2017 - 2020 only 55% of the audited audit acts were collected and 45% were not collected or, in other figures, charged with 4 billion. BGN, and from receivables with revisions were collected 2.2 billion. lv. The audit acts have an extremely low level of credibility. Only 66% of the acts issued are confirmed in whole or in part, and this refers to the quality of the audit acts. A low collection rate, write-off of limitation obligations was also established. On an annual basis, the NRA is writing between 2 and 3 billion. lv. commitments, with a total of 10 billion written off for the period 2017 - 2020. lv. obligations. Also, in the same period, large liabilities were accumulated, which is also of the order of 10 billion. BGN, as the largest debtor has accumulated liabilities of 161 million. BGN, and there are those with over 50 million. lv. Some of these debts may be difficult to collect. The first hundred companies from the large debtors' list owe more than 2 billion. lv. In addition, companies with large cash holdings have been established and are systematically drawing large amounts of their activity. Another part of the revenue agencies - the Customs Agency - has also improved its work. Both the NRA and the Customs Agency expect the collection to be more than 1 billion by the end of the calendar year 2021. BGN, with NRA alone over 1 billion. lv. and additionally by the Customs Agency.......................................................................................................... BGN, so in the draft update of the state budget, which will be presented to you very soon, you can safely predict about 1.8 billion. lv. additional costs, which will be to recalculate pensions and allowances for pensioners below the poverty line, and to meet a new wave of horse mackerel, if this occurs in autumn. In other words, we have done what is necessary to improve the activities of the revenue agencies, improve the revenues and, in the short time of the caretaker government, we have managed to both maintain the financial stability of the state and improve the collection rate so that Parliament can decide on restructuring the budget and increasing social payments where it considers necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u19	Mr. Yanev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u20	Evidence of these activities so far is the rating of the activities and assessment of rating agencies that already rank Bulgaria in a positive rating trend. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u21	Thank you. We are moving on to asking questions from "There is such a people." Do you have any questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u22	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Prime Minister, the following question regarding the budget update: when and how was the budget update discussed? Which parties were you in agreement with? Is that why the budget update is set for elections 2 in 1 after a discussion with parliamentary parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u23	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! As I have already mentioned in my initial statement, the budget update was discussed by the social partners in a rather broad range. It is also discussed with a number of parties, I cannot confirm whether they are all, but ultimately the likelihood of elections 2 in 1 or individual elections in the autumn is not a matter of a political decision put in the budget. The budget update proposal contains enough money to provide both possible election scenarios. From this point of view, please do not put in a political context that the budget update is betting on one scenario or another, because the update of the budget that the government will vote on today is just a proposal, and your job in Parliament is to decide exactly how this update will happen after the relevant debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Mr. Donchev, come in from GERB-SDSS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u26	Madam President, Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Prime Minister, I believe you will agree with me that a government, whether on a regular or professional basis, is chosen to work, to do some work, not just to give briefings and interviews, not just to head the state apparatus, not just to disappear, but to do specific work for the benefit of the people. I don't think we have an argument about this. That's my question, too. A little over a year ago, President Radev, who is a political principal of the government, commenting on the social and economic measures of the government at the time, mentioned that it is appropriate that the measures should be.. I try to quote:................................................................... Targeted, timely and free! That's a good recommendation. And my principle question is, how did you comply with this president's instructions? And since yesterday the President instructed us, when we are in a similar context, to ask questions, my first question is: how many grants in favour of the business were planned and implemented? The answer to this question is easy because there are no such measures. How many social measures for the benefit of people, especially vulnerable social groups, were planned and implemented? The answer to that question is also easy. And a third sub-question, which I very much hope the answer will be different from zero. A super measure was announced to support businesses, essentially a financial instrument, i.e. a credit resource. I am stating that this is not a very new measure, this is an existing measure from the Fund Fund and I am not proud of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u27	Mr. Donchev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u28	30 seconds. Because in the years back, it's unlikely that more than 60 credits have been distributed through this measure. So how many Bulgarian companies have benefited from this measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u29	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Janev. Mr. Yanev, you have no time limit for response.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u30	I don't anymore. Thank you, Madam President, for the lack of restriction. Thanks for asking, Mr. Donchev. From the structure of the issue in its first part in terms of the president and his applications from a year ago, perhaps my answer would be easy if we turned to this part what was the situation about a year ago when we were in a Lockdown state and had such grants and everything else. But there's been a lot of water since then. Not only Bulgaria, but the European Commission and the European Union have in principle taken certain measures and imposed, so to speak, a standard of this type of State aid which may prove to be both business and social systems. In this regard, I do not think that in the behaviour of the caretaker government, which began its work in May, established practices in other European countries differ. In this regard, yes, such assistance exists. Whether it is a grant or not, subject to the rules already imposed within the European Union, the behavior of the Bulgarian government is basically within this framework. With regard to your third sub-question relating to the measure through the Fund Fund and the additional effort made by the caretaker government, it is precisely to negotiate an opportunity for credit lines of about 2.5 billion. lv. from the Bulgarian banks. I can tell you and perhaps this will be the news that the first tranche, the first period of this cycle is almost over and currently the Bulgarian banks have distributed about 250 million. lv. of various Bulgarian companies, which I think is an indicator that deserves attention. It deserves attention from the point of view that in terms of the business and the help it receives from the state, we have heard the voices:..the business insists on the grant, the business does not want loans. I think what I'm saying right now means that business is, of course, this business that wants to develop, rely on credit when there are such opportunities, accessible tools and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u31	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. For the next question from the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u32	Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And I will start as my colleague Gutsanov started, which is nice when in this House we see a Prime Minister present, who, I suppose, does not hurt him to answer questions on specific topics by the MPs. Thank you for that, Prime Minister. The state is certainly returning with such a presence and it is good to continue this way. There is no news for anyone the assessment of the state's state. Every day there are scandals or we are witnessing it. The assessment is also mentioned in the media throughout Europe, which now as a cliche call Bulgaria the poorest and most corrupt country in the European Union. We're marking one of your observations, Mr. Prime Minister! No one has expected the scale of corruption in Bulgaria, but everyone feels it because it affects everything from the consumer basket of the individual to the attitude of the European leaders, to how Bulgaria spends the money allocated to it by the European budget. It is also well known for the report "Magnite" which has already opened its eyes to people overseas. Numerous reports of the European Commission, those of Europol, and the fact that they are related to organised crime, but only in our country may there be no effective sentences, even on proven corruption scandals. If the prosecution somehow closes its eyes, I thank you and in a personal capacity that you and the caretaker government did not allow yourself to do so. I would like to receive data from your monitoring of the checks carried out on ministries, your work with other state institutions, which no longer work under pressure, but perform their administrative and professional duty. I have set aside a few major operationally interesting cases by sectors in the economy I can provide you with this reference, but I am sure you have it, of which I would only affect the last year and a half, although there is a need to check the past 12 years. Time is still a crucial factor. A specific question: Could you explain to us how, in the presence of 1.5 billion? lv. excess at the beginning of the Kovid crisis in just 18 days.. notice! We have reached a deficit of 3.5 million. lv.? My questions, which have already become modern here, are related, of course, to the current state of the Silver Fund (Silver Fund), an extremely important issue repeatedly posed by our parliamentary group, you have already said about motorways, what has happened to the funds distributed by public procurement without procedure, in house tests? Of course, that money that was meant for heating fuel, because there are huge violations there?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u33	Your time is up, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u34	One more sentence. How were the dams renovated in the country? We know we've set some world record here with 630 million dams rising. lv. Prime Minister, how big is the amplitude of discovery? Is the country damaged and by how much? I know these aren't all examples of abuse, but they're pretty big. Finally, allow me, for which I thank you, Madam President, one sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u35	All I ask is silence in the hall! Mr. Ivanov, please stop talking. And Mr. Mirchev in the front row, at least listen to your colleague!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u36	Perhaps, Madam President, colleagues are impressed with the scale of abuse. But yesterday in this room we found out the truth, in fact many truths told by Boyko by Boyko Rashkov, not by each other Boyko. We heard a lot of truths from Boyko Rashkov yesterday. Today, Mr. Prime Minister, we hear from you too. We hope you continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the question and the need to continue the debate on a topic which is extremely important for Bulgarian citizens, for Bulgarian society. This topic, I would say, is the fight against corruption, which we did not need to wait for the signal from a foreign state and the law "Magnitski" since the beginning of June, to think that this is a very serious problem, which also threatens statehood, endangers Bulgarian democracy, and is practically a problem with which we all have to fight systematically and purposefully. In this regard, if we go into detail, I would say that the caretaker government has managed to make some important steps. The first step we took was to adopt a special decision by which to try to limit the legal regime of the Bulgarian companies with state and municipal participation or state and municipal companies. This is what we tried to do, despite the clear awareness that there is no legal basis in the Bulgarian legal order, there is no legal basis to say what should be done when such a banning regime is obtained from another country. You know that the European Union is discussing such future regulations, so that at some point a European regulation may emerge. In this sense, my appeal to you is to assess the need for such an administrative new legal order and the need to address this issue if you consider it necessary to create a law or group of laws in this regard. It is not easy this struggle, but what we have done is with regard to the work at the Ministry of Finance and I have very much already mentioned some of the measures that have been taken. Furthermore, what I need to mention is that special proposals have been made with regard to inhouse procedures, including with a decision of the Council of Ministers, to improve the approach and mode of operation of setting these types of procedures, subject to the Public Procurement Act. Special instructions were also given to the Public Procurement Agency so as to stop this practice of spending public resources in large amounts, without clarity and without rules laid down by the State. Of course, that's the half-step. If you consider it necessary to go further and change the necessary laws and conditions for the functioning of the system further, of course, it is your decision. With regard to the administration and its activities. When I joined the Council of Ministers in May, what impressed me here will be limited to mentioning that it is in relation to the administration of the Council of Ministers that it was enough for this administration to look at any act submitted to the Council of Ministers only from the point of view of its legality. What I have done and what I think is already felt, so to speak, positively I have made the elements of the specialized administration work and with regard to one other aspect that is appropriate. The activity to which we are currently sticking to the Council of Ministers is to act at least in these two directions. Each act shall be treated by both its legality and its appropriateness. With regard to the dams, yes, I think enough public data has been exported, including Minister Petkov is here, from the point of view of the principle of the State consolidation company, which is responsible for the dams, can enter into details and tell you more. I will only tell you that, as a result of the analysis of the welded state of that welded list of over 600 dams, for which by decree of 2018, it is decided that some technological changes must be repaired or accordingly made and that money is needed, in the state budget through the State consolidation company 500 million has been allocated. lv. for this activity. How the 500 million were spent. lv.? Again I tell you, in detail you may be acquainted with the Minister, but what the Ministry of Economy has done by checking the activities of the State Consolidated Company is to prepare a new list, divided, rudely speaking, of priority dams that need urgent repair, and dams that need repair in one medium period, and those that need completion, construction and so on. So this analysis is done, the details are in the Ministry of Economy and can be provided if necessary. Because, as in any other activity, I think that, in this area, there should be clarity, first, in the use of public funds, and then clarity in terms of their usability, importance, significance, if you will, including in terms of population security, so that there are no sudden accidents, transfusions in natural disasters and everything else. In short, we can talk a lot, but ultimately for the short time of action of the caretaker government we tried to put things on a principle basis, in terms of protecting the public interest and full transparency of our actions. I hope that so far, since we are doing everything in public, at least in this respect you have no comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Mr. Hinosky, you are entitled to a second question after all the parliamentary groups have passed. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u40	Madam President, Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For us, it is key to block the gaps in the budget, which cost huge losses and stop development, and therefore there is no money for very normal things. My questions in this regard are as follows. First of all, Prime Minister, we appreciate what has been shown and you have revealed, but two issues are particularly disturbing. The first such is that Bulgaria gave up during the past government of GERB and the so-called Patriots, of a billion dollars in penalties regarding the previous gas supply contract. They gave up a billion dollars in penalties! This amount is just as much as the Minister asked for to you an update of pensions on an annual basis. That's exactly how much money they gave up! My question to you, I do not know the decision of the Council of Ministers, there were no debates in the last parliament, the previous parliament, there was not one MP who would stand up and say: "Don't do this, we cannot give up a billion dollars in penalties, because we think, for example, that pensioners are important and because of them we will not give up. Even those who want a permanent pension update, and they didn't think of it. But now, in order not to repeat such things, it is important to examine what decision the Council of Ministers took on the subject. Wasn't there a report, wasn't there an analysis, wouldn't one person stand up and say, "Let's take a look to protect the Bulgarian interest?"! We are in Bulgaria and when someone owes us a billion dollars in penalties, ask for them. Has there ever been such a man, Prime Minister? And my second question is 700 million. BGN, non-gaming. But there's got to be systems for mutual control, right? Suppose the finance minister was busy with other things and couldn't check.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u41	Your time, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u42	What about the others in the Council of Ministers? How can you not raise 700 million? lv. And then being very concerned about pensioners, about social expenses...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u43	Mr. Dimitrov, I'm asking for the subpoena.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u44	...so it's imperative that an inspection be carried out here so that these things will not be repeated again in order to block the real budget leaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u45	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u46	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Dimitrov, honourable Members of Parliament! On the specific questions the specific answers, if you wish, in the second part of the question... about gambling here is the Minister of Finance and can answer with details. But yes, these questions stand and are important. In the first part, in terms of penalties with gas contracts, yes, there is such a type of penalty and the decision has actually been taken during the previous government, and the decision is through delegation with the necessary instruments and has reached the state company Bulgartransgaz. That decision has been made. I think that you are all familiar with the Commission's Energy and Water Regulatory Report, where there have been certain criticisms regarding the activity of Bulgartransgaz, regarding the contract for the construction of the Turkish Stream and some of this problem has already taken place at the level of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Indeed, the management of the Ministry of Energy is likely to react a little late, and not in the best way, but these changes, these movements will help to clarify precisely the relationship in the horizontal chain of hierarchy between the Ministry of Energy, the Bulgarian Energy Holding, respectively the management of the state firm Bulgartransgaz. To see what is the legal mechanism to make such a type of request to be in the state interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u47	Thank you. Mr. Stoynev, Mr. Kanev, Mr. Gechev, I am making you a remark of silence in the Chamber. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! A series of sub-questions arise: was the state, is it currently, and will continue to be a regular payer? It was important to say that almost all the reservations from the previous budget were exhausted and perhaps it was necessary to make an update at the end of life? not of the previous, but of the previous parliament when there was a regular government. Of course, you mentioned that you have taken measures that are the only ones in such a situation for restructuring the budgets of individual ministries. The question that arises is: is their activity ensured by the end of the year and do risks of underfinancing arise there? With regard to the unsecured contracts that you mentioned, the question arises: how many of them will be implemented by the end of the year and is there the resource to pay them because, if they are not paid, this means defaults, this means driving a chain of business events in relation to subcontractors who will not be able to receive their funds? And the question arises: how much do you expect the deficit to be on a charged basis on the basis and on the update you are proposing? It is indeed an important instrument, it is a good alternative, but perhaps it is better to wait for the establishment of a regular government in this Parliament, if any, and to offer its vision for an update of the budget. And another question or sub-question that arises: at the moment, how much is the state's default to the business.? Have there been late payments and when do you expect to be paid, and whether this resource for any unsecured contracts to be paid at the end of the year has been provided for in the update option that you are proposing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks for asking, Mr. Chobanov. Yes, it is important that the state be a regular and reliable payer. The state relations should be symmetrical. As the state expects the business to pay its debts and taxes, so the state must be a correct payer when it has obligations to the business. The philosophy of such proposals from us Project for a change in the budget for 2021, which we are going to vote on this afternoon, is based on several basic principles. First of all, I'm starting backwards. The deficit provided for in our proposal for a budget update budget is below 3%. I agree with your logic that this budget is good to offer it on a regular basis a government elected by Parliament to see its philosophy, its strategy in terms of public finances. At the same time, given the facts that have been mentioned earlier, the fact that no budget update has actually been made by the previous government and has taken place in these three months in order to be able to continue social payments both with regard to pensioners, both with regard to the poverty line and with regard to helping businesses and medical workers engaged in the management of the conflict, we have made restructurings. These restructurings are not dramatic in terms of the budget of individual ministries. Individual ministries, even without an update, will have no problem functioning normally by the end of the year. However, it is precisely this type of payments that are not in the state budget: these are the payments relating first to the social system with pensioners, with the benefits; these are the measures for the business if necessary to be continued under existing mechanisms for its support; these are the measures to support the health care system to overcome a potential new wave in the autumn, if necessary the delivery of more medicines and all that is in the portfolio of the National Health Insurance Fund. So the choice is this. From a political point of view, you're absolutely right. It is good that this budget update should be proposed by a regular government elected by Parliament, but in this case, since, so to speak, the clock ticks if this update is not submitted now in early August, this means that for September, the whole package of social payments is nowhere to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u51	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Prime Minister! It is good that you have taken up the issue of the appropriateness of public expenditure, not only of their legality, because in the previous National Assembly this issue was not at all raised. And it is not natural for the Prime Minister to place it. It is natural for the MPs to place it. What do I mean? The large distribution of money from the previous government, whether from a window of a jeep or a Council of Ministers, was actually a kind of transformation in the budget that might have needed the sanction of the National Assembly. And in this regard, my question is: Have you done an analysis, have you sought information in the Council of Ministers on how these decisions were justified, these decrees of the Council of Ministers, is there a methodology, is there any criteria by which they were taken, or is someone's personal order set aside the corresponding amount and given? And the second sub-question to this topic is: has an analysis been done at a percentage level, if the x municipality is given an amount of an additional amount to the budget of this municipality, whether this amount of yrek does not represent 30, 40, 50% of the municipality's budget and whether it essentially reverses votes by the National Assembly budget and budget expenditure? In other words, is it not broken, if not the letter, at least the spirit of the budget law, which essentially changes and violates the will of the National Assembly? Are there such analyses by municipalities, by institutions, if you will at the level of the entire state budget, because, if it is a sensitive amount, it is still essentially a violation of the State Budget Act and the objectives set in it? Are financed objectives not included in the votes of the previous National Assembly state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u54	Madam Chairman, Mr. Yonchev, honourable MPs! I do not see any problem if the roles are exchanged in terms of who should ask the question to whom and who should first raise the flag for appropriateness. I think it's everyone's duty. It is not important who raises the ball, but it is important to have a unanimous view that when we talk about public resources we must talk about the necessity of, of course, and the legality, it is our duty. The questions you raise are important. Analyses have been done, although we do not claim to be comprehensive and detailed, and the conclusions of them can be categorical given the short time in which the caretaker government operates. However, analyses have been carried out both with regard to the central budget, its spending with regard to the senior officers and with regard to the local authorities and what additional funds have been going towards them. For the sake of clarity and completeness of these analyses, they are presented to the Public Council at the Ministry of Finance, i.e. public and can be seen. Enough information has already been provided in the public wide, including public speaking. I would just like to draw attention to the analysis of the functioning of the central budget of the central administration, respectively the administrations of ministries and departments. The practice, which, for example, is related to the inhouse procedures: whether it is a State consolidation company, whether it is an inhouse procedure in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, respectively the Road Infrastructure Agency, and the State Enterprise, the practice is as follows, there is no data, of course, on paper that someone has ordered verbally and has happened. It doesn't make any sense in this story to leave such clues and data. What remains on paper and the analysis that is done shows that this type of decision, the creation of an opportunity to distribute such funds, which are generally speaking, opaque large sums of money for certain projects of certain companies, is done with a system of decrees and decisions of the Council of Ministers, which presumably determine how the system works and very specifically define the beneficiaries of the specific programmes and industries in which these things can be done. So in terms of legality, rather, the law is respected. I cannot speak in detail whether this legal analysis is already about morality, but the law is respected and the mechanism that has been created is precisely such by decision of the Council of Ministers and a decree allowing a company to give inhouse or other types of orders to certain companies, and then to seek subcontractors, whether they have the capacity or not to carry out a particular activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u55	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Moving on to the second round of questions. Here you go, Mr. Hinoski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u56	Honourable President, Prime Minister, Ministers, honourable Members! My question is in the field of energy, which we all know what kind of disease he's in right now. In society there were huge expectations that this government would decipher all these wrong moves in the past and this huge deficit in which the industry is currently working or struggling to work. Unfortunately, the economic situation of the sector was not fully lit. There were two press conferences by the Minister of Energy in which it became clear about the huge debts of the individual companies, about the state in general, but did not follow any concrete actions, and these were three fatal months. The financial and economic situation of Bulgartransgaz did not become clear. Rumor has it that he's about to go bankrupt, that he can't support his basic activities. Did it not become clear what the state of the black hole of the nuclear power plant was doing, what were the plans for this project? However, it is particularly worrying that I pay attention as an expert who has been working for many years in this area, the serious state of the complex.Maritsa East............... and the lack of perspective in which it fell, against the background of the Green deal, Europe's plans towards decarbonisation and our empathy for this policy. In this regard, I have one question: Have analyses been carried out and what are the results of them on what path the Complex should go and what has been done in these three months because these are fatal three months? At the moment, it is fatal for us every month to save jobs in the Complex, to show people that there is a prospect for employment and for future jobs. My question is very brief: why were these three months lost, Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u57	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u58	Madam President! Mr. Hinosky, thank you for the question. I'll start backwards. Were these three months lost, were they lost 5 or 10 or 30 years earlier in relation to Bulgarian energy? It's a very complex question. Analyses have been carried out and show that the development of Bulgarian energy for years needs strategic thinking, development of strategy what is next and what we would like. Because, let me say it from this tribune, energy is at the heart of the economy. If we want the state to develop, if we want to have investment, besides all the other elements of stability of the investment climate, stability of the justice system, a very important element is to have a secure energy base that on top of that is capable of producing energy at competitive prices. Such a strategy I could not find to have been made over the years before us. These fatal three months can't reverse the wheel of history and do something that hasn't been done in recent years, I don't want to quote how much. Energy problems aren't from yesterday, they're not from May. Energy problems have been going on for years. The problems in the Maritsa East 2 and the state heat plant are extremely sharp both from the point of view of the need for energy, as it is structurally determining the energy balance, as well as with regard to social problems, the people employed by it from two or three, perhaps four areas. All these issues are extremely important, but at the same time for the period of operation of the caretaker government, the issue of missed opportunities regarding the future of this plant cannot be resolved. I think that in 2020, Bulgaria joined that carbon tolerance threshold, which was adopted for the European Union for decarbonisation, of the order of 55% by 2020. This decision largely predetermined the inability to comment at the moment and to negotiate a continuation of the life of Maritsa East 2 with normal arguments. Yeah, I know there are different practices. Other European countries are negotiating in the foreseeable future the remaining of this type of coal power plants. Yes, there are other European countries that stop newly developed coal plants, in the interests of this decarbonisation, in the interests of the green deal, the circular economy and everything else. The issue is very difficult, the issue is such that there is a very serious debate ahead, so the next government must be ready to participate in this debate competently and rightly so as to protect the national interest in the best possible way. But it's still about strategy. This strategy must, of course, be prepared by a government, but since energy is a structurally defining industry for the economy, my recommendation is that you as MPs require that this strategy be examined and adopted by the National Assembly. Of course, the work of a regular government and parliament. With regard to Bulgartransgaz, there are different information in the public space, you mentioned that it was before bankruptcy, at the same time there are reports of the supervision of Bulgartransgaz itself that everything is okay, the contract is good, including some of the conclusions of this report that the loans taken are already in a regime of return from the point of view of transit fees. Let's not go into detail on how much these transit charges would have been if it were another pipe and another transfer. I think we're doing an analysis right now. Yeah, maybe it's not very vocal, the Ministry of Energy in terms of his analysis, because they're coming. Perhaps these analyses are not that easy, but hopefully, in the coming days, we will have more clarity on the matter. Regarding the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" is a very important issue, which is exactly what I said a moment ago: Bulgaria's energy strategy. Do we or do we not want to have a prosperous economy in the future? Do we or do we not want to have an industrial base that relies on an energy base that is predictable and which can work without, as with renewables, depending on the whims of time and the development of these technologies? Nuclear technology has been proven. Energy is perhaps the most reliable base that creates a predictable energy resource. It is necessary to make a decision we want or do not want to build an additional power plant.. Whether it will be on the site of Belene or Kozloduy, we have different proposals, but Bulgaria as a country must solve this problem and make a decision within a reasonable period. Construction of new nuclear facilities must begin in my humble opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u59	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u60	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister! Before I ask my question, I think I will express the opinion of the entire Chamber, which was quite embarrassed, to express myself carefully, from the information that was exported by Mr. Toshko Yordanov at the beginning of the meeting for a minister from your government. I do not want to put you in an awkward position at any time and insist that you respond immediately, but it seems to me that political correctness and responsibility implies, however, that a response to these information should be given by the end of the day. And now the question. Dear Prime Minister, on the 24th of this month, i.e. a few days ago, the news was spread that the international rating agency Fitch Ratings confirmed Bulgaria's long-term credit rating in foreign and local currency as BBB with a positive rating. The analytical part of the message says that the positive outlook reflects the decrease in macroeconomic risks under the COVID-19 and the higher sustainability of the economy, as well as the continuing progress towards the euro area. The upward trend reflects better than the projected recovery of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2021 and the expected strengthening of domestic demand and exports in the second quarter of the year. And it also says: factors that could lead to a decrease in rating are adverse political developments that will reduce confidence and economic recovery, a prolonged increase in public debt and so on. My questions to you, Prime Minister, are: do you agree with the analysis and assessments of Fitch Ratings? And if you agree, would you at least put in a good word for the previous government's economic and financial policies? And, secondly, would you confirm that a continuing political instability could lead to a decrease in the country's credit rating? And who do you think should be responsible if that happens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u61	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u62	Thank you for asking me a question. Let's start with the good words. The first quarter of this year actually economic indicators are good. I'm not standing here in front of this tribune to criticize anyone or praise anyone else. I have objective information submitted by the Ministry of Economy, which says: Economic Bulgaria in the first quarter of this year is looking good. I can also quote parts of the report. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]] But the comparison of economic indicators is that what I have, and what is probably reflected in the credit agency's assessment, is that this comparison is based on the previous year, which is the year of a crisis of a horse and the natural increase in the efficiency of the economy and of the business is good news. So the business is starting to recover, to work. This trend is continuing at the moment. Let us not associate it with political stability and instability, because political stability and instability are in the hands of all of us in the Chamber and the People's Representation, and political parties must decide what is to come and whether there will be stability or instability. Of course, I would like to say a few words regarding the use of these credit ratings and the fact that the economy is generally an inertial system. The investments, measures and decisions that are now being taken are effective after a few months, perhaps years. In business we all know that the quest is to have a return on investment in the best possible way, the fastest way, but magicians who can get back what they invested in a few months are few and most likely these are not pure business practices. In this sense, we need to look carefully at these credit ratings. Plus, the companies themselves who are involved in credit ratings have a methodology that includes what you mentioned about political stability. What she will be, as I said before, depends on all of us. Let me say a few words about the euro area. Bulgaria has adopted this decision to join the euro area more than a year ago and what is important is that when the time comes to make the relevant decisions, there should be an informed debate in this regard. It's very important what we want and how we want it. It is very important to have an assessment of economic development at the moment when decisions are made. So if we have a positive trend and the economy is developing dynamically and growing, perhaps it is appropriate to join the euro as we wish at the moment when there is, of course, a desire from the countries However, if the trend is negative and the Bulgarian economy is in recession, we must think very seriously. This is the key that I think you should hear in this room and keep it all in mind when it comes time for these decisions to bear in mind and what are the decisions of our economy and growth trends or for some kind of stagnation. Of course, we all need growth in the economy. We are doing everything possible right now, and within these two or three months, the caretaker government is doing everything possible to support business, but sometimes in economic development globally there are trends that we cannot influence on. And let's not go there and make predictions about what could happen to major raw materials, markets and so on. This is a question of another analysis, and I hope that there will be an opportunity to continue it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u63	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. For a question from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u64	Madam President, Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The battle with brutal corruption and the parallel state we from our party have been fighting for many years. The symbols of GERB, with which their governance will be remembered: transparency, incompetence, nepotism and large-scale corruption, led us to be leading in all negative rankings, namely: on foreign direct investments, on freedom of speech, on levels of inequalities and so on. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] We don't need to have a dialogue from the stands. If you want to talk later. In this direction, I would like to ask you the following question, Prime Minister. In your interview from mid-June on Bulgarian media you are talking about the state in which you found the country as a minister of service of Bulgaria, namely: high levels of corruption in various economic sectors and its masking in legal loopholes, the function of the long-standing lobbyist and trendy legislation from the same model of GERB and its associated parties in the three cabinet, as well as huge chaos that reigns in state institutions. You point out as an example the Ministry of Environment and Water, agriculture, economy and tourism, even culture and education. My question to you is the following after nearly 40 days of this statement, besides the daily alphabetical examples of corruption presented to the public, what other measures, such as referral to competent authorities, introducing a better organisation into these departments, personnel changes, and so on, are taken and how do you evaluate current results? Is there a tendency in this direction to phase back into practice the functions originally enshrined in the philosophy of these state institutions, in their rule of law and in favour of society? Is there a need to regulate and to cross such unacceptable practices with a better quality in favour of society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u65	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Yanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! I think the issue of corruption has been addressed several times, and I addressed it in a way that I think it is appropriate to address precisely from the National Assembly's stands, so, because this problem we are facing, the efforts must be at all, not only as a legislative initiative, not only as a legislative framework, which, if necessary to be enriched, should be made new laws and so on, but also with regard to their implementation. With regard to the functioning of the judicial system. I would like to use this tribune to make an appeal: in political speaking, when it comes to interaction between the authorities, the most frequent expression that is heard in our Bulgarian political speaking is a division of the authorities, which, although it is enshrined in the Constitution, I do not think in full expresses the relationship between the authorities. Because in my opinion, the real expression is a mutual dependence of the authorities. This is how democracy works, and these are the principles laid down by passing from Plato, Montesquieu and getting to our time, and the modern practices of the functioning of the democratic state. Mutual dependence means that no one is independent to make their own decisions. Yes, it is enshrined in the Constitution that the judiciary is independent. Probably didn't complete the sentence that she was independent when she decided. However, in relation to other factors, it is also dependent on the executive and legislative power. At least in terms of the power of the wallet, so to speak. On the budgetary attitude proposed by the executive and voted by the legislature. In this context, my idea is that talking about the fight against corruption goes through all the authorities, goes through the interaction and targeted search for a solution how this fight should be in the interest of public resources and in the interest of ending existing practices. Yes, you mentioned an interview in which I have given certain information, definitions and so on, and no matter how many days after that, this process of analysis and evaluation, and of ways of seeking to improve existing practices are done continuously, and are currently being done. Such analysis is done and the improvement of practices is done. Of course, measures are also being taken, including through this interinstitutional approach, including the referral of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. I will give you just one example that in relation to the Road Infrastructure Agency, both economic and financial relations, which have been opened by the caretaker government, more than 60 signals have been sent to the prosecution. Of course, there are in other areas, and in other ministries, I do not have summary information to give you an accurate number at the moment how many such signals are, but if necessary, such information may be provided further. Yes, the restoration of functions is a process and it started in ministries and offices. I have told you an example of what I have personally done regarding the functioning of the administration of the Council of Ministers. There are similar trends in the other ministries, but let's put it this way: the functioning of the state, the use of the instruments that the state has in the various authorities respectively, the legislative will not speak about, but with regard to the executive power, the functions that are set by law and the determination of the responsibilities of the individual ministries and their portfolios and responsibilities, they depend on the implementation of this law and their proper functioning. This is an effort which, of course, you in Parliament must assist it by properly supplementing existing laws or, if necessary, making new legal frameworks. However, the effort started during the caretaker government is precisely in this direction for the normal functioning of the administration within the legal order and in terms of the appropriateness of the use of public resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u67	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister, Ministers! It is undoubtedly good news to improve the budget balance by over half a billion a month compared to the same period last year. Obviously, part of this improvement is due to the obstruction of corruption leaks that are happening in the office. However, another large part may be due to rising inflation, for which I would express the concerns concerned. We see that in recent months VAT revenues have increased by more than 40% compared to the same period last year. This is largely due to the increase in fuel prices, raw materials, food prices. Therefore, perhaps the measures in the budget update in terms of increasing the incomes of the poorest people of the pensioners are adequate. My question is rather: do you have concerns about the existence and the beginning of some period of stagflation in Bulgaria, and throughout Europe in the coming months, and what would be the measures that would be the official and regular government should be taking, and at what period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u70	Madam President, honourable Members, an extremely important issue in terms of inflation. This is a matter which must be monitored very carefully and by the next official, I apologise, a regular government, supported by Parliament. [[Elevator bell dings]] There has to be a ready-to-get-up-up lapsus, I'm sorry, I don't mean it, the next regular government should be ready to address this particular problem, because there are many factors that influence it. [[Heckling]] Based on these indicators, first of all, the collection rate is greater by several factors. Yeah, there really are some holes stuck. On the other hand, in a purely technological reporting period, many of the companies are now making these reports and corresponding contributions to the revenue agencies. And with regard to the global or rather the European picture, on the one hand, there is indeed an increase in energy carriers to a certain extent, it is not dramatic, however, how prices will move on the international markets with regard to the main raw materials, oil and gas, which are related, of course, is a good question that we do not need to look at in a crystal ball. But I also have a reminder that we should also look at what is happening in Europe, because at the moment, in a purely European way, in terms of prices and inflation, this is Brexit's effect. Britain is no longer in the European Union, part of the budgets and correspondingly the European countries' contributions to the European Commission have increased. On the other hand, trade with Great Britain is, to some extent, within the norms of the former European practice of duty-free imports, but there are already new elements, elements of additional duties and fees, so it is a bit complex and I would not want to go into detail2 without being sufficiently familiar with these details, but this is one effect in terms of inflation. Yes, inflation should be observed because it is possible at the end of the year, whether it will be done now or later, this budget update should be monitored carefully in order not to need a new update at the end of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u71	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No questions asked. And stand up BG! We're coming! Mrs. Doncheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u72	Dear Prime Minister! In answering a previous question to you, you said that you have found that the specialized administration of the Council of Ministers, when giving opinions on the regulations which the Council of Ministers is looking at and on which it is deciding, was intended to give opinions only in relation to legality. Please tell us if there is an explicit order for this, or have verbal orders and guidelines been issued? How do you think the decisions were made when appropriate? Because, as is known, in the ten-year management of GERB, there was an evolution in the composition of the Council of Ministers in the direction of full deprofessionalization. It is known that some ministers' secretaries have replaced them even in viper posts?! If political persons have to rule without a gram of professional competence as appropriate on what is going on to solve, how exactly has it happened and what has this led to? The second group of questions that I am interested in is: have you identified how those costs, which have been incurred for the highway, have you been budgeted for five years? With a budget, no budget, with a decision by the Council of Ministers with anything? And allow me to take a light view of what colleague Rado Cholakov put up. Of course, Mr. Tosko Yordanov's question, with which he met us this morning, will find some answer from both you and the Council of Ministers, but please, not in this discussion today, which has a direct topic. All businessmen who are in the Chamber or are not in the Chamber but are MPs know that they are in proceedings against someone for outstanding accounts and disputes, some of them are in cases against them, some of these cases they win, some of them lose, some of them sign an agreement. So don't look at this as a sensation about the morality of a minister. Civil affairs in business are everyday. I ask you, of course, to give an answer to the public as much as you think necessary, but calmly and in the light of the facts, because when the Ajamites enter the field of politics, heavy injuries sometimes fall heavy objects with severe physical consequences.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u73	Mrs. Doncheva, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u75	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Yanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Doncheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's start by returning to the old question-answer on the appropriateness of the legality. What I mentioned and found in the Council of Ministers was literally in the first week. After that, the necessary opinions and support for the appropriateness of certain decisions is a fact and a life at the moment. We did not find such a signed order to forbid the administration to write opinions and to deal with this appropriateness. There's no such order. I don't want to call it that because I'm not sure I can claim it 100%. Rather, the practice speaks of the administration of the Council of Ministers, which has hardly been an arbitrator in some previous years in the preparation of various administrative acts, what I have found is an inert behaviour, inertia. The legislative acts prepared by other administrations shall be adopted almost unreservedly, unconditionally and without the necessary additional analysis at least from the point of view of appropriateness. Of course, legality has already been highlighted several times that it is mandatory. In practice, this administration was not active at the moment is already active. And I hope that with joint efforts and with the next government, it will be able to return to that level of professionalism that was in previous years. Regarding the question you are asking about the budgeting of the highway, I think that this mechanism has been repeatedly mentioned, including in public statements by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Finance. In addition to the violations because of what is mentioned, the lack of projects, the lack of alienation along the route and the so-called In House handing out orders to different companies, which was their explanation to buy materials. Millions of companies are given to buy materials. I don't want to go back to old publications, but this practice has been terminated at the moment. Of course, life does not stop and where there is permission and work is done. It is not the aim to stop the companies that work; it is not the aim to stop the companies that are merely a carrier of a financial resource, but rather to put order and finance from now on when it will be built on the basis of the relevant permits, based on the appropriate preparation of the entire technological process of the construction. What you mentioned with regard to politics and opinions regarding young, old and everything, and Mr. Cholakov's question, and before that, Mr. Yordanov's opinion, I don't think I need to become a lawyer. The Minister of Finance is right in front of you. If you wish and consider it necessary, he can defend himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u77	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. We are now moving on to expressing our attitude towards the Prime Minister's answers. There is such a people? There aren't any. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Prime Minister, honourable ministers! Today we gathered to debate the true state of our country's finances and economy. Unfortunately, however, many untruths were said during these speeches, which, of course, does not speak well of the rapporteurs. As the last regular minister of finance and as a sign of correctness, I will start with the date 12 May 2021. The day of handing over the government to the office. The place is the Ministry of Finance. What did the Minister of Finance say? Thank you to Mr. Ananiev understand the political party GERB [[Laughter]] that despite the continuation of the crisis, after the first worst quarter, it has succeeded in restructuring the costs to continue the support measures by the end of May, for measures 60/40 by June, and for first-line medics by September. From now on, a way must be sought within the established budget, that is, our budget, whether and how these measures, that is, our measures, can be extended and to what extent. I would like to congratulate the expert composition of the Ministry of Finance and the two revenue agencies, which, within the framework of the budget voted, provided all the socio-economic measures, not just for two months, but until the month of September, which is seen by the Draft Law on the update of the state budget for this year, prepared by the caretaker government. Moreover, thanks to their high professionalism, they will also face the challenges by the end of the year. The Minister of Finance agreed with my words that I am betraying the state in good financial condition, with one of the most stable fiscal policies, with the lowest deficit after the three countries of the European Union with the lowest debt compared to gross domestic product. Budget implementation and revenue are going very well. By the end of April, the budget is in excess, the size of the fiscal reserve is 8.8 billion. lv. The state has cash manoeuvrability to meet the costs that are to come. However, this did not appeal to the creator of the caretaker government and the minister of the service was quickly rebuked. He quickly flipped the pancake and came up with a new version of yes, the budget is being implemented well, but there are problems with restructuring the costs in it. As an example, he gave additional funds for construction, repair and reconstruction of monasteries, churches and mosques. This was a clear sign of an upcoming blow to religion in Bulgaria. The other major fraud is that the re-execution of the revenue provided for in the 2021 budget update is the result of the actions and measures of the Office during their two months. They underestimate the Bulgarians very much. There are not enough naive people to believe that in 50 days the caretaker government will collect additional revenue of 2 billion. lv. Here's the truth. As of the end of April 2021, tax and non-tax revenues increased by 2 billion. 300 million. lv. compared to the same period of the previous year when the pandemic was much weaker and less prolonged. As of the end of May 2021, during which we were still in government of the State, tax and non-tax revenues increased by 3.1 billion. lv. compared to the same period last year. The fiscal reserve has been moving between 8 billion and 9 billion since the beginning of the year. lv. In this context, the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. We've only done an issue for 800 million. lv. And not only that, in my last conversation with the Minister of Finance, he fairly reasoned whether to issue a new debt and when, even with the proposed update of the state budget for 2021, he envisaged a reduction in the deficit of the consolidated fiscal programme by 0.3% of GDP. In addition, our banking system is liquid and well capitalised. This gives me reason to turn to the president of the state, who said that the state is facing financial bankruptcy, collapse and destruction, with the words of a Bulgarian journalist, a bright memory: Yes, but no.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u79	Your time is up, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u80	Let me now turn to the opinions of international institutions. The international rating agency "Fitch" confirmed Bulgaria's long-term credit rating in foreign and local currency BBB with a positive outlook. The reasons are that the rating is supported by the good external and fiscal position, the reduction of macroeconomic risks under the COVID-19, the higher sustainability of the economy, as well as the continuing progress towards the Eurozone. Fitch expects the economy to grow by 4.7% in 2021 compared to 3% previously. The review towards higher growth is due to the better than expected recovery of the economy, notice, in the first three months of this year.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u81	Mr. Ananiev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u82	- Fitch points to... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u83	...you've exceeded the time by almost a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u84	All the people who have spoken so far have criticised the government of GERB and I have the opportunity...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u85	You're going to protect him like that now! [[Hands out.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u86	Procedure is procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u87	It takes more than time...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u88	Okay, a little bit more to seven at least.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u89	Fitch points out that, according to preliminary data for the January period, May 2021, there are solid results in the revenue side supported by economic recovery and efforts to improve collection rates. The European Commission envisages the same trends for the economic and economic development of Bulgaria. I turn to the office prime minister of the Republic of Bulgaria he said just now that the Bulgarian banks have distributed 250 million to the business. lv. In essence, these are contracts between the Fund of Funds and the Bulgarian banks. The loans are about 200 million. lv. They are all for refinancing existing loans, not new ones. It's because of the collateral requirement they recorded. Thus, the programme is not really to help the economy, but only to help the banks, which deal with the state guarantees of 80% of the existing loans.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u91	And finally I finish the Bulgarian government at the most difficult moments of the pandemic found a good balance between measures to preserve people's health and lives and the opportunities for the economy to continue to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u92	Is that why we're first in mortality?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u93	Be assured that thanks to this both business and people have given their contribution to the financial and economic stability of our homeland. Dear colleagues, in order to build our future the future of Bulgarian citizens, let us honestly and without political bias recognize the good things of the predecessors. Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. Calling from IBGNI:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Gutsanov, come in from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u95	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, honourable ministers, fellow Members of the National Assembly! I cannot be dissatisfied with the fact that for more than two hours in plenary here, where it belongs, we are discussing the problems of finance and economics, and we are not discussing them for a walk in the forest to see what the credit rating is like in some previous governments. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] With all due respect to you, Minister. I think it is important that the work of the National Assembly continue in this way to discuss the priorities and views of our country's development. From BSP for more than four years we commented on all these problems, which today very clearly the prime minister of the state mentioned, namely that more than 15%, notice, from the budget of the state has been distributed under the system in house. Are these normal processes?! Is this not a clear circumvention of the Law and giving of funds? I said around the Law to feed this corruption environment and to distribute the funds to companies that are assessed and at the prices that are assessed by certain individuals in the state?! [[speaking indistinctly]] I do not believe that this process should continue. Obviously, legal initiatives need to be adopted to change this legislation, because its function, as I mentioned in my statement, was one, while it was freaking out, and went into quite other parameters. I also do not think that it is normal for state-owned companies such as Motorway, state-owned companies who are responsible for digging channels where there is no one else but the CEO and exist only in the legal peace of paper, to pass through them a huge amount of funds - billions - and on the same day to be allocated to other companies, but now private, without auction, without competition, with unclear parameters. So obviously, here and here in the National Assembly, we must take the necessary steps to stop this thing. What I really want is for the country's priorities to be discussed here in the meeting room. I hope we can find all the parliamentary groups, our country's eternal priorities, and they can be a strategy for the development of our state, not change when someone comes to power and when they think the world begins with it. If this function succeeds in the National Assembly to implement and actually determine who these strategically important ones are, I would say, once again, the eternal priorities of our country, it will indeed be a serious job by the people's representation. Personally, I wish that would happen. When the budgets of the state are adopted, these priorities should be reflected in them, not be year-to-year and no one should be allowed to give away these funds from here on, no matter where and how, whether from a jeep or from somewhere else. Let's end this period of our country! We from BSP will try and do our best to make these priorities with the necessary views of each political party so that the Bulgarian people can get a sense of security, satisfaction and know what perspective lies before it. Thank you once again, Prime Minister, for being in this Chamber today, and we have launched a debate that is so necessary for our country. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u96	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov, for your time. Mr. Dimitrov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen! There are objective ways to assess success. After 10 years of GERB management, Eurostat data show the following things: a serious slowdown from Romania. If this government were successful, we'd have chased them and beat them to it. Because we 2007 wanted to get rid of them, 10 years later we are seriously behind. Abandoning income against central European and Baltic countries that joined the European Union is dramatic. So let's not kid ourselves that this government has been successful. Unfortunately, it wasn't. We wish it were, but it wasn't successful. We therefore ask ourselves the question of what is the problem? The point of such talks today is precisely in this, yes, there must be a blockage of budget cuts, that is right. However, there is another problem. Those countries, which have developed rapidly, such as Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, the Baltic countries, have given priority to the development of small businesses. And here, until recently, the past government has allowed an extraordinary overcharge of eight credits from one bank for one billion. Seven companies received 3.4 billion from public procurement, 8.6 billion for in house procurement. It is so that not only small companies, small and medium-sized businesses are not at the heart of development, what is more, the country was often used, the big ones to hit the small ones. Such an example is with small gas stations, which were tried by law to be harmed, almost closed, which is absolutely outrageous. With such a framework where the big ones receive all kinds of privileges, there can be no rapid development of the economy. Because rapid development comes from the good environment, comes from the small business. Prime Minister, a few specific things. First, for these 8.6 billion in house orders it is very nice to make a table when they are given, what they are given, how much has been spent so far, what is done, what is expected. So we're going to put this table here, and we're going to fill it out so everyone can learn what's been done and what the results of this work are. Because here the inefficiencies, colleagues, are murderous. This story should also be used to seek responsibility, on the one hand, but on the other, to ensure that this never happens again in Bulgaria on these scales. There's a lot to be done in house orders for. For example, when you have to buy emergency election machines, I understand. We from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria understand it in such a situation. Short time, quick action. Now, this is an example of the inhouse procedure, but you don't have time to make highways like this is an example of a killer inefficiency that can't be repeated from now on. In order to reach the notorious Romania and European countries, we need to change this model, and all this needs to happen here. The big change that needs to happen! Well, you can't look for any more ways to kill the small business that was until recently politics! Well, I'm sorry, you've seen that the court has also been used in court to take away the property of certain companies that didn't like them, which is even more terrible, and complements our thesis on the ultimate and urgent need for judicial reform. The update of the budget is a very serious issue, indeed, but this must be done together with the blockage of these gaps from which billions run out. Mr. Prime Minister, we want to do it, as I have already said, and check this billion dollar penalty, which Bulgaria can seek and which would reach for the update of pensions for a whole year, in the Council of Ministers whether there has been a debate on this subject, was there a solution, was there a minister who would say: well there is a Bulgarian interest here, we want to protect our interest, to look for this one billion, not to give up on it, because I know that there is no such MP. I checked that out. In this parliament, in the 44th National Assembly there is not one MP who said: let us protect this Bulgarian interest. There was an out-of-parliamentary opposition which raised this question repeatedly. However, there was not one person in parliament to put this topic. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm getting to know him special. This is important to be clarified and this issue to be studied to the end, because it is not about one lev, it is not about two levs, it is about 1.7 billion. BGN, which is enough for the update of pensions for a whole year, which are not targeted and lost! So here this question cannot be forgotten. And we will continue to lift it until it is clear what has been done, who is responsible and what can be done from now on. Yes, Bulgaria can be different. Yeah, we can grow up fast. Yes, we can reach Romania. This 30% income gap we can overcome, but we need a new path. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u98	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Come in, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Prime Minister, this debate has largely revealed some of the problems we have seen in recent years. Problems that I and I, personally, and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, have also spoken about. Problems that also relate to the way funds are spent and to their concentration at the end of the year, when 30% of major budgetary articles, from basic expenditure, were concentrated, leading to inefficiency. It's a past we know. We will continue, of course, to refer and to reveal these imbalances, but, as we can see, and in the speech of our colleagues, it is good to look forward and forward, that is, what awaits us sooner or later, the creation of a regular cabinet, is waiting for him many responsible tasks and reforms. I will allow myself to set out several fiscal policy principles, which, in my opinion, are important, without claiming comprehensiveness, the state is a regular and orderly debtor, which I have also addressed in my question. Enhancing cost efficiency with a focus on viable performance criteria, including administrative reform and digitalisation. The current budget expenditure should not be increased at a rate that leads to an increasing relative share of the total budget expenditure and of the gross domestic product. These costs are not flexible and, in the event of an economic downturn, lead to a rapid expansion of the deficit. Do not allow the expansion of redistribution through the budget. The share of total costs and gross domestic product shall not be increased as a result of inefficiencies. Capital expenditure shall be based on the principles of capital budgeting and shall account for the sustainability and long-term maintenance costs. Similar principles are offered to us by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the membership we seek. Don't change income taxes and profits. Currently, the economy is at such a level of development that labour and capital, as well as technology, are scarce. And if we allow ourselves to raise or change them, this will result in negative results in terms of our economic development, addressing deficits in the social security system, which can continue to grow if we take an unreasonable policy. Last but not least, and perhaps most importantly, it is to undertake the necessary reforms to achieve accelerated and catching up growth, without which reforms are doomed to deficits in the future. And we must bear in mind that sooner or later, European rules on fiscal policy will start to act again and will require a balanced budget from us within the economic cycle. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Mr. Hadjigenov, from the parliamentary group. Will you express your attitude to the Prime Minister's answers?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to reflect my concern about what happened today. Somehow I was used to the Prime Minister scolding us, keeping us in line, being angry at us, waving our fat finger out of the stands. [[(Replyes from BSP for Bulgaria]] It doesn't matter. Whether from this tribune, or from any other in the last 12 years, this has been a routine. I'm very worried that I'm watching something like this right now. I can't figure out what normal is, maybe this. Maybe that's why we fought, and maybe that's why we took it so far from the right side of the room and partly from the left. So I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his attitude and for answering questions. What GERB did not understand from some of the answers, however, is important. They confuse good upbringing, it's normal, they don't know it, they don't have it, with praises and patting on the back. Risking getting down to their level because they can't get up, obviously, higher. As far as they in every act or inaction seek the money, I have a rhetorical question: those agencies with which you claim that God speaks to them, do not they actually get paid, gentlemen and ladies? And isn't the principle, if you pay more, we'll put you up in the ratings? Rhetorical question. So I insist that we continue with normal things. Not the ones that were normal until that day, the things that we saw today, the normal things that we do so that this can happen like today. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u102	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u103	Do we have five minutes?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u104	Mrs. Manolova, time cannot be separated. It's the time of the parliamentary group, and I think it was taken by Mr. Hadjigenov, so that concludes Mr. Yanev's hearing. Thank you, Mr. Yanev. We are also finishing this item on the agenda. Would you like to take a break now before we start the next hearing? [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, break for half an hour. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u105	We continue with the next item on the agenda: HEARING OF THE DEPUTY MINISTER-FREE OFFICER IN MANAGEMENT OF THE EUROPEAN FUNDS. Please invite Mr. Pekanov. Good afternoon, Mr. Pekanov. About the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the changes made by the Staff Office under the Plan and the readiness to submit to the European Commission. Please provide the importer with a statement of the questions of the hearing. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u106	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! In the context of an unprecedented pandemic with the COVID-19 and the subsequent economic crisis, the European Union, in a demonstration of exceptional unity and solidarity, proposed the biggest investment instrument in its history. This is a huge EUR 750 billion package in grants and loans to stimulate reforms in the Member States. Bulgaria is expected to receive 6.3 billion on this line. EUR to invest in building a competitive economy, reforming its energy and health and building a better future for our children. Dear MPs, this is a unique opportunity for Bulgaria, a unique opportunity to transform our country and catch up quickly missed years. Before our National Assembly, before this National Assembly and the future government of the country is the amazing chance to transform the economy, build the necessary infrastructure for a society that encourages entrepreneurship and provides support for small and medium-sized businesses. This is an opportunity for much more than pouring out asphalt and handing out money. We are talking about the production of intelligence, which increases gross domestic product so that Bulgaria can finally enter the 21st century, a fifth of which it passed without touching the intellect and getting rid of corruption. Here we are talking about the creation of a system that supports innovation and which puts man in the centre of management; and a substantial reform of health care, which will facilitate access and increase the capacity of health institutions throughout the country, we are also talking about a comprehensive reform of education, which will prepare young generations for the future labour market and which will make Bulgaria an attractive place for investment and life. The responsibility for achieving these goals lies with us today. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I welcome your sincere and comprehensive work on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan as the main instrument of the European Recovery Package. We from the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! We're coming!..we've initiated today's hearing with several main objectives: Firstly, to understand the state of the Plan and, above all, to establish its readiness to submit to the European Commission. Secondly, we want to understand the scope of the changes that the caretaker government has made. And thirdly, to expose to us and the Bulgarian citizens what are the main obstacles from now on. Our time is extremely expensive, as any delay in the production and transmission of the Plan is also a delay in investing the funds in the Bulgarian economy. You have found a plan which was deliberately sabotaged by the previous government and which was written in a complete lack of transparency and a little public discussion. We expect to hear what changes you have made on the six pillars. We are extremely interested to hear how you are protecting these changes, especially given the version of the Plan that you have found. For us, it is essential, as I said just now, that the plan not only allows some funds to be spent on the management model over the last 12 years, but to serve as a fully appropriate instrument for the transformation of our homeland. The expectation of Bulgarian citizens is that you have used the additional time you have received to work hard to improve the quality of the Plan and to transform it into this instrument for transformation into a modern and competitive European state, which Bulgaria should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Pekanov, please inform the National Assembly about the issues of the hearing. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u108	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for this honour and responsibility to speak here from this highest tribune, to speak to you about this extremely important strategic document, which is before us, which is part of a very important strategic process,........................... Last week we published our revised version of the Bulgarian Recovery and Sustainability Plan and I dare say that it is much more ambitious and much better than the previous one. It contains 57 investment projects and 43 reforms, building on 11 new investment projects and seven new reforms, we have changed some of the projects we have found problems with. I strongly believe that this is a version with a much higher level of ambition. This will unlock in the next seven years for Bulgaria 12.6 billion. BGN, but other than the money that will come from Europe, is expected to unlock at least 8 billion more. lv. private investment. It is important to realise the common macroeconomic impulse that will come from this important mechanism. I would like to start by thanking all the ministries and institutions that have really worked tirelessly in the last eight weeks to get to this new version. I think that we have been able to make a lot of changes and come to a complete type of document - fulfilling the basic criteria that I would like to remind again: a contribution to the green transition, a contribution to the digital transition, that each of the projects meets the specific requirements, as I said, one of the principles of not harming the environment. So not every single thing that's important to us can be part of this mechanism. This is an important technical criterion that you should keep in mind. Furthermore, each of the projects in some way contribute to the specific recommendations that the European institutions make to us each year. We have worked precisely in this area, and I hope that if the money is used properly under the Recovery Plan, they will increase the potential of our economy, increase productivity in our economy, bring higher incomes, contribute precisely to this building of infrastructure, renovation and all the other important directions that are laid down. However, this requires continuity and willpower for these projects and reforms to take place in the coming years. I am pleased that we have succeeded in making very important changes in some areas of education and science, health care money, addressing in part the problems in the sector we have, you know, many long-standing problems that we need to actively discuss and look for solutions to them, strengthening the part about innovative companies, reforms that will help the most ambitious and innovative companies in our country, a reform that will help us see more clearly the long-term risks and challenges facing our country and looking for the policies that can solve them. I will also not miss that we have been looking for improvement and expansion of some already existing projects that have been good. To another extent, we have reduced some projects that we have had concerns about. For example, the already existing projects, which have been well developed, well protected, increased funds and built up, for example, with a new project for the National STEM Centre, have been built up, which we have already commented on more than once. In the sector,...... more serious reformation, change of focus from renovation and renovation of hospitals to purchase new equipment, as well as other new projects... you know, widely discussed, and an important system for providing rapid air assistance, a project so-called Stroke centers to treat and treat strokes in the country, an image diagnostic platform. In the field of science the funds are also strengthened, with the programme for speeding up economic recovery through science being strengthened in its part to stimulate companies that are the most innovative ones who have received a stamp from Europe that can be those companies that push our economy forward. In the field of economics, we have received revised two projects and there is optimization on them, which aims, for example, the resource under the Industrial Parks Project to be used better, to ensure that there will be interest from investors, and these industrial parks in the coming years will indeed happen where there is interest. Under the Programme for Economic Transformation, we have introduced a part with financial instruments such a model to ensure that the funds are used in a better way precisely in such businesses that bring returns. At the same time, it is extremely important to provide the grant support for the business, that is, here we need to look for the right balance. In part, this is a political decision what is the exact balance between the rapid support that provides recovery and incentive for the support requested and the financial instruments that have a return can be reversed. There were many open criticisms in the energy sector. We have tried to respond to some of them, and in an extremely short period of time the Energy Ministry has been able to enrich the Plan with three new projects and three new reforms that will partly satisfy the requirements of the European Commission. These are, for example, the three new reforms for stimulating the generation of electricity from RES, liberalization of the retail electricity market, as well as an important reform, establishing a Commission for Energy Transition, a committee that will clearly give us the scenarios before the Bulgarian energy for a road map for climate neutrality, precisely so that we can make the decisions that are important before us and know the risks that may arise from them. We can no longer turn a blind eye to the problems in Bulgarian energy. You see, for the European institutions, the green economy is an exceptional priority, and it is very difficult for us to keep our eyes closed on this. We need to do more in that direction. At the same time, there is over-achievement of some of the projects in the single-family building component, for example, a reduction in the renovation part of the single-family building component, which we have found to be not the best beneficiaries for this programme, a 15% co-financing is introduced only for some buildings of a higher energy class. This is a very small part of the component, but it is an important, important approach to introducing this co-financing. We increase the budget seven times for the renewable energy funding programme on rooftops, almost to the coverage of the ceiling for the financing of a project. On other projects in the field of energy, we had to optimize precisely to find this important resource to respond to criticism from the European Commission services that we do not provide enough replacement capacity, enough renewable energy sources that exactly the following years will help this transition to happen. I will not hide.. there are open questions which, however, it is not right for one office in its last days to make decisions on them. The main open questions are about the future of coal regions and coal plants. This is a very difficult issue that I have already been with, I hope, talking to some of you on this subject, we need to look for solutions so that we can ensure the future of the people in these regions as well. They will be exposed to socio-economic risks due to the need for green transition. We must look for opportunities for them to reduce these risks, and address them. A second topic, which remains open, is the subject of the rule of law and justice. You know that for years we have been receiving criticism from the European institutions on this subject. Here we are expected to have an ambitious reform that needs to be taken as a decision in this building. An office cannot promise something that the next regular cabinet may not fulfill. These are important decisions that we need to discuss very actively. I'll finish with just a few more changes. In the business environment, we have set up a reform that will help and improve the environment for the most innovative companies and startups in Bulgaria, and I also said, establishing a council for economic analyses, which will provide us with precisely the analysis of the long-term risks and challenges facing our country, in order to help us in the next preparation of such documents to know exactly what we want for the long-term to happen, to have a clear base. In other countries, this was done before the creation of their recovery and sustainability plans, and this is the right approach. I am pleased to say that we have also been able to strengthen the 'Social inclusion' component, and with the really very good work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, we are proposing a reform that has been required of us for years by the European Commission to ensure that minimum incomes are indexed, precisely to the most excluded in our society to ensure that they receive a little more support from the state. This is something that the European Commission has been asking of us for years, and I am pleased that we have been able to propose such a reform. My opinion is that the next Bulgarian government should regularly work to activate the loan part under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. In it this will be an additional opportunity to activate other projects that have not yet been ready, have not passed in any way the technical specifics of the European Commission. This will give us time to think about such projects, which have currently failed to get into the Plan, how to be included in the future. I think this is from a macroeconomic point of view the right decision. Do we have a timer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u109	You have a little more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u110	Okay. We need to think about the digitalisation of Parliament in the Plan maybe. As I said, some open topics remain. They must be resolved in this Chamber. Dear MPs, this is an important resource for our economy. It can make it more competitive, more productive, more efficient and fairer, greener, more digital.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u111	You don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u112	All this will help people increase their income, guarantee the necessary investments in infrastructure. It's an important mechanism. The European Union's thrift, thrifty, and under-spending countries have managed to unite in this crisis to have this mechanism, so that together we can get out of the economic crisis faster than the previous one. They were able to find some kind of consensus and agreement on these very difficult topics. That is why I also appeal to you, to this building writes: "The Union makes the force, let us seek consensus, let us go towards finalising the document, to find a solution for the open issues and, as soon as possible, to succeed and Bulgaria to be part of this mechanism, like all other countries in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u113	Thank you, Mr. Pekanov. We're moving on to Mr. Pekanov's questions. Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Pekanov, dear colleagues! I listened very carefully to what Mr. Pekanov introduced us to, but inside, unfortunately, was missing an extremely important topic. Agriculture, honourable Members, is the basis on which the Bulgarian state has always stepped on when it has had a problem so that it can cope with all its challenges. Unfortunately, farming can only be found when there is water. In the last 12 years with the permission of the government of GERB "Irrigation systems" sold for scrap a huge part of the irrigation facilities. Last year, a sum of 800, nearly 850 million appeared in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. BGN, with which the already destroyed infrastructure had to recover. Unfortunately, the level of ambition in this plan was only financial in this part. Everyone's great concern was that another theft was being prepared. My question to Mr. Pekanov is: why, Mr. Pekanov, did you choose the easy way to remove this project instead of reworking it and making it possible to happen? Because if we move on to the loan side, I think it would be extremely incorrect to the Bulgarian taxpayer, on the one hand, already something he paid to sell for scrap, and then to draw a new loan. And one question. These funds of 850 million in which other measures went up to 126 million. The euros you left behind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u115	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Minister Pekanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u116	Thank you. Thanks for asking. It wasn't an easy decision. On the contrary, it was very difficult and was the result of the talks we had with the European Commission services in the last two months. Firstly, I would like to start by saying that I fully share the importance of this project and the priority of Bulgarian agriculture to receive support. The problem is that for a long time this project has not been designed to cover the necessary ones so I mentioned in my introduction requirements to the services of the European Commission. These are requirements that take months. We are getting a clear indication, even clearly written indication, that this is the most problematic project in the current version of the Plan. By July 2 I have continued to send the Project and to try to protect it, but it was clear that the project in the way it is recorded is contrary to the Habitats Directive, the Water Directive, the EIA Directive, has not been evaluated and not only on individual sites, but also needs an assessment of the cumulative impact on water stress and a number of other European regulations to be protected. We had conversations with the representatives of the company who did not work on this analysis. This analysis won't happen in three or four weeks. Unfortunately, we did not get precisely the expert protection of this project from them precisely because it seems that in some institutions in the country the expert potential has also been cut into scrap. The problem comes from the fact that we can work for more months to try to keep this project as part of the Plan and delay the Plan for more months, as I said, requires an extremely long time, this doubt and the experts from the MOEW to make this impact assessment. In this line we are looking for composite mechanisms, so we have proposed this fund to serve to modernize and green farming. We are in active talks with the sector yesterday I spent about two hours with representatives of the sector to look for solutions. But I say again, it is fair to say that this 850 million has not been protected so far, and we have no way to protect them in a few weeks, just because it takes technical time to ensure that we know at all that this meets European regulation. In that sense, we're looking for options. I think we will try to compensate by other means to go to Bulgarian agriculture under the Plan. But the Irrigation Systems Project is not responding at the moment, as I said, to the very strict and precise criteria of what projects should be and how it is proved that they do not harm the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u117	Thank you, Minister Pekanov. A question from the parliamentary group GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u118	Let's get on with the irrigation, Mr. Pekanov. I didn't mean to go out now, but after hearing your explanation... I absolutely disagree with the explanation that the project in its submitted form is unacceptable. The communication with the Commission has run weekly with representatives of experts from four major departments, five with the lead, and in each communication documents and protection of the project that we have submitted have been required and everything has been answered. The theme of the environmental impact of the Project comes from the requirement that your caretaker government, by decision of the Minister of Ecology of 28 May, introduced a requirement for cumulative environmental assessment, which was required before 28 May, according to the opinion of the Ministry of Environment, was not available. However, even this change, after 28 May does not restrict your government from continuing to work on its defence project before the Commission. There is no written indication that this project will be refused. Greece has such an approved project, yes, to Romania in its first appearance has also been returned. It's all a matter of political will. For proof, I'll give you the following example. In the negotiations on the new common agricultural policy for an instrument which, under a political agreement when we joined the European Union, was limited in time, uniting with all stakeholders, all parties, even the deputy minister as secretary of the MEP Ivo Hristov, working on our proposal, we protected the transitional national aid for this period as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u119	Mrs. Taneva, state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u120	So your will is to withdraw the project, not to be protected. My question is: do you have the management and expert will to continue the project's defence by preparing such a cumulative environmental assessment and restoring the resource that has been assigned to the sector............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Without irrigation, we cannot in any way talk about diversification of agricultural activity in Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u121	Minister Pekanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u122	Thank you very much for the question, I'll be brief on it. I understand that political speculation and discussions require you to express this opinion, but we all know that this is not true. We all know that's not true! [[Applause from IHN.]] It is not a question of any demand. It is very uncomfortable when this tribune is being manipulated, it is not about any requirement of the Minister, it is about the indications we receive, yes, officially by the services of the European Commission: why have you not done the job? On May 20, we called the people who had to do this job, they said they had done it, only they hadn't done it. And so over the years, many such problems, I think, have happened in this way in the country. So there's nothing to argue about on this line, it's all written down. We know you do. Do we have the political will? Once again, this is not about political will, it is about a political decision..... if we want the whole Plan to be delayed by many more months to continue a relatively pointless discussion at the moment. Why? Because, as you said yourself, Romania has been stalling for a long time and finally realized that their project in the same way written as ours with two billion will not pass and they have given up on it. This will be, unfortunately, and the final result, if we do not start over with this project, first, its overall framework will be rewritten. In this sense, we are looking, however, as I said. To have political will to guarantee the resource for the sector, that is, to look for opportunities for these funds to go on another meaningful project for the sector. And this project, as I say, is about European Commission requirements, not our legislation, it is. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS, applause from ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u123	Thank you, Minister Pekanov. A question from the BSP for Bulgaria. [[Reply by MP Desislava Taneva.]] Please, not from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u124	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u125	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Our national recovery and sustainability plan was drawn up under the leadership of the former governors of GERB, who saw it as an opportunity to simply turn it into a capital absorption plan of over 12 billion. EUR for Bulgaria. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] Well, no, that's the way it is! The main problem in the content of this plan is that it is not clear what problems it solves and how it solves them. We are aware that the caretaker government cannot bring out a completely new plan, with a completely changed philosophy, and I believe that this problem remains after the changes put forward in the version of the plan of the caretaker government. We appreciate the attempt at new solutions in the low-carbon industry component, however, there is an increase in funding by about 1 billion. lv. Without commenting on everything else, I will say that I do not find adequate solutions concerning the complex. I consider the means to which Bulgaria will have access through the Plan as a chance and opportunity for Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian economy as a unique chance. A unique chance for Stara Zagora and the region, within 10 years, to restart their economy and put it on another basis, unhinged by the development of the complex Maritsa East. But I don't see how this is going to happen with what's at stake in the Plan. Along with exotic ideas for a sharp transition to hydrogen and biogas, the new is a scheme to support the launch of a steam plant in the Marishka Basin. A procedure for providing investment support for the construction and commissioning of gas power plants with 1 gigawatt capacity has been established. This is where the serious questions begin. Do you really think that the Plan contains adequate solutions and guarantees for the future of the region of Stara Zagora and the complex of Maritsa East? Where will natural gas come from in quantities required for the operation of a 1 gigawatt power plant? Is the construction of a gas connection provided for this amount of natural gas? How long will this construction take? Are you aware that what was invested in the Plan liquidated two state and two private companies and at one point more than ten thousand employees in the Complex will remain without an alternative to employment? What do you predict about these people? Provided that these two sites, an element of national security, are on the privatization ban list, how will the private partnership be implemented? Is TPP-2 preparing for privatisation? In order to decommission the three mines, as is the alternative after the implementation of the stakes in the Plan, there is a huge amount of money within 3.. 4 billion. Where will these funds come from? Finally, why are not high technologies included in the Plan that will be quite good in terms of efficiency, independence from energy supply and are good for the environment? One of these technologies is the development of the Minno-Geology...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u126	Mr. Gokov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u127	I'm graduating. ...University: The construction of a system for carbon capture and storage and in the earth's subsoil, which ensures both preservation of mining and jobs in the TPP. More importantly, the country will maintain its energy security and independence, and the price of electricity will remain predictable for a long period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u128	Mr. Pekanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u129	Thank you for your extensive questions, I will try to answer most of them. The overall philosophy of the Plan ultimately, to be honest, there was no way to start over in view of the eight weeks we had, as I said. In my opinion one of the mistakes, it is simply complete over the years that we lack precisely such a macro-spectrum on the problems and challenges of the Bulgarian economy. In Greece, this analysis was made first by prominent Greek economists all over the world. This is the document by Christopher Pissarides, a professor at the London School of Business and Economics, who lays the foundations for the Greek plan, after which the whole plan was based. Within seven or eight weeks, we had no way to start over, put the overall vision back on track, and then start working. I accept that criticism. This is an important thing, and this criticism I hope will be conditional on the establishment of the Economic Analysis Council, which has been proposed here. This is an institution that has in many other European countries, in which an annual report of independent academics is published, which basically look at things and say what are the challenges and risks to an economy and what it should do. Based on such analyses, we can make such long-term decisions and, in my opinion, be better taken. About the Marishka pool, I fully understand the concerns they are in place. It is important to remember, however, that the plan is not the only resource we receive. For social economic risks in the Marishka Basin, we will have the Fund for a fair transition worth 1.2 billion. EUR to go precisely to investment for this: opening new jobs, new infrastructure, addressing all these problems that I fully share. Unfortunately, last year during the debates on the Multiannual Financial Framework, the initial proposal for the Fund for a fair transition, if you remember, was 40 billion. EUR for the whole of Europe. However, it has been reduced to 10 billion. Euros. This was, unfortunately, a loss, especially for the Eastern European countries, which will need these funds most. However, these funds are there, and that is what we need to think about how to use them to address the risks. After all, what we had as requirements or open questions with the European Commission was to offer them replacement capacities. On this line, colleagues at the Ministry of Energy also worked to provide new projects that correspond to the green transition and are included in the recommendations of the European Commission. Yeah, maybe not all the dangers are addressed with them, but they address this problem for the demand facilities. We have already said: we will not make a commitment to close the Plan. It is not right for a caretaker government to commit to closing such large complexes and such large proceedings. So this is a red line we have right now. There's no such thing at stake. With regard to hydrogen and biogas, I understand, there are many different experts we have talked to. Some see it as the best technology that will soon be used, others see it as not so effective at the moment. But you know that there are such initiatives in the European institutions to look for, to use, to unlock the potential for using hydrogen, so that even if it seems extravagant this idea, it is something to be walked towards in the coming years, I think. Last but not least, as soon as I took office, the hydrogen capture project, the so-called Carbon Capture, has reached me. After many discussions with experts, however, we have found that such projects currently exist only in the United States and in one place in Britain. They do not have mass use at the moment, their efficiency is not relatively certain, and let's face it: such a project will rather be a step backwards in what is currently at stake as a priority by the European Commission. It won't be a step forward. So we're going to give them signals that we don't really want to do the green transition. On this line, we found no way in which this project could ever fall into the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. A question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u131	Hello, and thank you. We've found out about the 850 million planned for the Irrigation Systems. "Irrigation systems" notice, not irrigation. It was clear that the European Commission could not accept such a feather in such a plan. But you know that irrigation is extremely important for Bulgarian agriculture and agriculture in general. Unfortunately, this 850 million melted to 250 million for Bulgarian agriculture. This is the misunderstanding I would like you to clarify here, because the funds that this fund needs to cover are the funds that need to help the small, middle, family farmer who has lost to the pandemic and climate change. What needs to be done is that these funds are fair to reach all farmers - small, family, which are located in the villages of Bulgaria. I am chosen by Dobrudja and there they ask: how will these funds reach them? First question. The second question: why is there not a word about forests in this plan? There's no word for forest development! The Bulgarian farmer suffers not only from the drought. He suffers from quiche, he suffers from hail, he suffers from monopoly, he suffers from industrialization, and this fund provides 2%. If we compare, Greece has allocated 450 million. EUR for the development of organic production and traditional crops such as olives, citrus and so on. And in Bulgaria we have foreseen 2%, and not for our traditional forms of agriculture, not for diversification of Bulgarian agriculture. The funds should be provided for these farmers. I would therefore like to know how these funds will be distributed so that we respond to the funds allocated by France.. 30% for agriculture, Spain, Italy, Portugal more than 25%? How will Bulgaria be competitive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u132	Your time is up, Mrs. Varbanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u133	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Simeonova. As you know, we discussed with you, understand the problem and seek solutions in the direction of increasing funds. But we need to find out what these increased funds will be spent on, because you see that so far some funds have been promised, which have been unprotected to the European institutions. I mean, we have to figure this out. As we have spoken to you, buffers are being sought, funds will be increased in the way they are now laid down for the sector.................................................................................... On the other hand, the biodiversity sector, I have neglected to mention it in my introduction, but we have tripled the funds on it precisely in a project that is about protecting ecosystems and biodiversity, a priority of the European Commission, which we were told was not currently sufficiently embedded in the previous version of the plan, and these are funds that can partly go that way. I mean, we can certainly look for a solution to that. You know, I'm having meetings with industry representatives right now, listening to their proposals, we'll accept their proposals for projects. On the other hand, I said and you know what the technical specifics are, that new projects from the moment the idea emerges to its extreme development as a developed project that is protected go about two or three months. That is, perhaps the best option is that the fund, which was currently proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, should be increased, to be improved, in some way to compensate for the reduction that happened because of the dropping of the big project. I understand your concerns. We have to work on this line in the next few days and weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u134	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. A question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u135	Dear Deputy Prime Minister Pekanov, you are undoubtedly under pressure right now. All delays in the preparation of the Plan, which have been accumulated since the time of GERB, lead us to this moment, when Bulgaria is already at risk of falling out of the National Plans package, which will be finally approved by the Council of the European Union in September, and ours will be dealt with separately, which is an extremely adverse scenario. There is no doubt that the moment is critical for the Bulgarian state, economy and institutions, because, starting from September, we hope, in the next 16 months, everyone is counting on investing more than 8 billion. 800 million. lv. in different sectors. You say this plan is good and ambitious. That's what your predecessor used to say about his. For us in the DSP, good solutions are based not on genius, but on a good, correct, systematic and open approach based on dialogue. In this case, structured dialogue according to the best European practices. Unfortunately, in the current version of the Plan we have received numerous objections, opinions and comments, including from municipalities in my constituency Vidin, which clearly indicate that many affected parties, stakeholders, institutions, branch organisations and groups of citizens have been forgotten. Moreover, it is noted that there is a limitation of the competitive approach and discriminatory treatment of access to resources. Specifically, but not only in the science sector, and this principle is fundamental in accessing European funds and their transparent use. The question that will give us an answer to many other questions is: how was the current National Recovery and Sustainability Plan drawn up? In particular: who was attracted to it; who gave its opinion; what was taken into account and why; and whether it happened in an open and public way? A claim with which your government began its work. I ask for a comprehensive answer, because only then will we find out for whom this plan is good and whether the Plan is better and different from the Plan. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u136	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u137	Thanks for asking. First, I need to clear all doubts. There is no risk to the funds, there is a risk that we are slowing down. I agree, and he is becoming increasingly aware, so I also appeal to looking for a solution to open issues that are difficult and will not be able to make decisions quickly. Let's not open all the components and all the feathers from the beginning. It is also important that you know what else we receive as signals from the European institutions that it is better for them to be a quality plan, to meet all the requirements than to be quick. We're no longer in a hurry, unfortunately. It's a very fine balance. Very fine balance! In this regard, the process has also been structured in the last eight weeks. The process was carried by ministries and institutions. There is no Plan of Pekanov, there is no Plan of Donchev, there is a plan of the whole country. The plan is drawn up by ministries and institutions with their expertise. I've said other things. Unfortunately, in some ministries, expert potential has not been developed in the years. In other ministries, the expertise is brilliant, brilliant, and I am extremely grateful. As I'm saying, in some places he's been neglected maybe over the years. The role of the state, I have often spoken that it has sometimes been neglected. In this sense, the plan has been drawn up. Each project has a beneficiary who has to wear it for the next years. As a beneficiary, it is not the beneficiary who will use the funds, but the beneficiary who will ensure that these projects happen in the next six years until the end of 2026. Each project is carried by the separate ministry or institution. I hope that answers your question. It's about the additional discussions that I am absolutely open to with the political parties. Last week I tried to talk to representatives from each of the political parties, to indicate to them that I am ready for much deeper discussions that can run hours. We've already had several of the parliamentary groups discussing such issues, we can go into technical detail. But if we had opened this discussion in the pre-election environment, I don't think we would have reached a great consensus. It was important, however, to make proposals that were working. I think the proposals here are working. Whether they meet consensus among political parties is a very important issue for me, and that is precisely why we are now having these discussions and we can have more discussions in the coming days and weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u138	Thank you, Mr. Pekanov. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u139	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! It is good that in the improved plan you present, you have complied with the opinion of business, employers' organizations and social partners, who insisted that the funds under the Programme for Economic Transformation be increased. And they've really gone from 900 million to over a billion. However, the problem is the structure of these funds. Unclear why you bet on financial instruments, ignoring the possibility of direct financial support of companies? Indeed, in this part, although it seems improved, by indicators the plan was deteriorating because the original proposal envisaged 900 million. lv. Direct financial support, and now support amounts to 500 million. lv. direct financial. I will not extend to long and wide why the additional financial instruments are not good for the Bulgarian companies, which will become even more indebted and will enter the debt spiral. I'm just gonna say there's plenty of them on the market right now. For example, the Fund Fund has 250 million. lv. Five equity funds each. For example, the Development Bank has 900 million out of a total of 1 billion on the table. 250 million. BGN, i.e. only 350 million of them were used. At the same time, if there is any deficit for the Bulgarian companies, this is a direct help from the Bulgarian state, because after the closing of the business, after the first wave of media enterprises have not received a penny of their promised money.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u140	Mrs. Manolova, state the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u141	It's the same for the so-called big small companies whose projects have not even been evaluated yet. In other words, companies need direct financial support. What are your intentions in this direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Manolova, a really important question. In partnership with the Ministry of Economy, which are the main winner of the two projects, this project has been revised. Private financial instruments were included, which is an important part, which can help in a different way than Grants. It can be used for those businesses that have a good return, come back, turn around in the economy. Furthermore, this ensures that it is the companies that are profitable that will take these loans. On the other hand, I understand concerns. Here we face two different glances. The look of the economy and the business look. I also understand the concerns, I understand that, from a macroeconomic point of view, really grants at this time are important for the economic recovery part. In this sense, it is important that we have the entire feather of the Programme, increased 1.2, and the balance inside of how many grants and credits can be subject to discussion. I understand the concerns, I hear there are concerns. Businesses also make such ones, that is, it can easily be recalibrated on the basis of precisely those discussions that we currently have to increase the grant part by maintaining some part for financial instruments in a more balanced way. I absolutely support that. In the end, it is also partly a political solution, because it is similar to the budget decision, which is the deficit, what are the economic measures and so on, that is to say, I am open to your proposals on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Is there such a people, for a second question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u145	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! The tourism sector is undoubtedly most affected by the current situation. This is, of course, not only in Bulgaria, but, unfortunately, perhaps or we do not want to see this, or we do not know what we need to do. My question relates to the lack of specific measures aimed at the tourism sector, and how will you, Mr. Pekanov, explain this to the thousands employed in this area? Please do not seek justification by saying that this is not possible. I'll give just two examples. In the Recovery and Sustainability Plan of Croatia, the word "tourism" is 119 times present. The measures, which are 140 to 149 in their plan, are directly linked to the development of sustainable, innovative and adaptive tourism. There are also a number of measures that are related to the digitalization of the processes, again concerning tourism in its various forms. In the Greek plan, the word "tourism" is literally present on almost every page and a number of projects are set up. I would be happy to explain the process more and whether there are any projects that have come to you and for some reason they have been rejected for non-compliance or otherwise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u146	Thank you, Mr. Kozhuharov. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u147	Thank you very much for the question. It's a very important question. Indeed, the sector has suffered a lot in the last year. On the other hand, the Plan, in the way it was set up before, in a given sense, and now, does not separate individual sectors of the economy for which aid is specifically to be granted. This is not the way in which the development of the Plan with the services of the European Commission has been discussed. However, in order to provide assistance, the main Programme for different businesses and the Plan does have a horizontal and not a specific sector, such as the really affected sector, is precisely the Programme for Economic Transformation. No matter how many times it's written in the text, we can also write it 10 more times in the text. In the Economic Transformation Programme, this is precisely the measures in which tourism can make modernisation, make a green transition, use the funds for investment in the circular economy. That 1.2 billion. lv. are there and all representatives of the tourism industry need to know that these funds will be able to receive grants and a credit portion depending on what the balance we are leaving behind is. Yes, I understand that there are other countries that have taken a different approach. In the Plan, as has been set before and now, we have not taken this approach for a specific sector to separate a feather and say that this will only be for this sector of the economy. In the end, I also said about the new projects. Even if ideas were received, but, I say, from the coming of an idea that is still in it, until its realization in the Plan goes two or three months, if the idea is good, maybe more, if it is not so good. We have not received any ideas that we can imagine in eight weeks will be protected before the European Commission. I say again, that is, they will meet the goals of green and digital transition, plus they will address some country-specific recommendation, plus they will pass the most difficult selection, which is precisely to comply with the requirement that Do not significant harm the environment. In this sense, such a design readiness of such ideas, which are specific to the tourism industry, have not occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u148	Thank you. The parliamentary group of GERB-SDS is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u149	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have one basic question and a few questions. Because comparatively telegraphically you went through the main accents of the Plan: what was going on with the Sanitation Program, which was supposed to happen in a completely free way; why were some of the funds on it being redirected? At the moment, out of 4,300 waiting buildings with the funds you left behind will not be able to finance more than 30%. Sub-questions related to this. Some of the funds you have taken, which should have been directed to the citizens who are the most victims of the crown crisis, have directed to projects in the first place, ineligible and, secondly, which can be financed under other financial instruments or programmes. In part of the supplier, you have explicitly written 400 grams of ML 2 per kilowatt hour in complete non-compliance with the requirements of the Regulation, and in particular the principle Do not significant Harm........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ More importantly, however, you are combining it with a financial mechanism for the modernization fund, which has the explicit demand and you mention several times that this will be a replacement power, or in other words, you directly de jure or simply de facto committed to closing the coal plants in Bulgaria without knowing it. How did you do this thing, since during the talks that I personally as Deputy Minister of Energy led, we closed the issue of the state having to make such a commitment at all. This is protocold and we have it in a written opinion of the Commission because making such a commitment is simply incorrect. So, like you said, this can't be anything but a red line. However, the inclusion of a steam plant in the Plan means exactly that. An additional 1.7 gigawatt photovoltaics plus batteries are at stake...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u150	Your time is running out, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u151	Madam President, I have two or three questions. I think they're extremely important to citizens. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u152	Ten, fifteen seconds, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u153	These photovoltaics plus batteries can be financed according to other guidelines, but in no way can they be targeted at large large projects, in which way you offer, because this is how corporate interest is seen and nothing more. The GTF allows such projects, so you can safely finance them. Have you spoken to NSORB about reducing the means of street lighting, which also reversiblely had to go to the funds for renovation. Finally, from the attempt at heating in the Northwest, which will cost us 10 times more megawatt part than the best technologies on the market. Collecting all these projects that will suffice for all these 4300 buildings to be renovated free of charge for citizens, you, seeing that you have been misled by the ministers who have led and offered you these projects, in particular the Ministry of Energy, what is your opinion...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u155	...can you tell me if you can't transfer that money to have these 4300 buildings installed?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u156	Thank you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u157	Madam President, thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u158	Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u159	Thank you for your question, Mr. Stankov. Let's start one thing at a time. The renovation programme was reduced in its residential area by only 200 million. BGN, which are related to single-family buildings, there is no reduction for the others, perhaps you should see in the draft ticket, which is published on Next Generation BG that there is only a very small component of about 150 million. lv. a co-financing of 15% is introduced. For all others, 100% State funding remains. Why? This is very important. It is time to start making a little more responsible decisions, it is important to move towards such an element of funding from the owners. Why? If there is no such element, we will never end with this sanitization, namely this is and your thesis part of the resources must come from the owners themselves. Why is this economically meaningful? Because for them, it creates incentives to monitor how this happens, to do better than the last years. You know there are some concerns about the program, so let's not lie to each other. The participation of the citizens in this process will increase precisely this is what their interest in doing all this in the best way. At the same time, we have placed it in such a way only for the buildings of the highest class and with a very small percentage of 15%. Why? It is precisely to avoid risking that there will be no interest in the Programme, that is, we need to start making steps for something we are told. We also know from the European institutions: You should do the renovation faster, it does not happen in the necessary steps. That is why this program has been revised this way. I think we've basically found a very good balance. In the field of energy. Actually, I don't think I'm being misled. There were many meetings between the Ministry of Energy and the European Commission. To be honest, we have not heard such criticism about technical details in such a detail. I have read all the Fitback we have received from the European Commission, but if there is such a technical malfunction, of course, we will enjoy your comments to correct it. I don't think there is one. In terms of closing. No closure is promised. That's what we say, the red line. No, we will not promise closure within the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. It's important to know. Everything else is made. Thank you for the analysis and work of the Ministry of Energy. Regarding the criticism that this would be about building large capacities. In fact, if you read, they are seven separate auctions for 285 each, with 70 megawatts of them always separated for small capacities. This can be increased for small capacities if we consider that there is any risk, but in the way it is currently set, it is ensured that one part of these auctions will go for small capacities, precisely to prevent such a consolidation. In the end, as I said, all optimizations were made by the Ministry to respond to the criticisms it had. Let's be honest. Yeah, there was criticism. Don't say the subject is closed, because if the topic was closed, you would send the Plan. You didn't send it, so there were open questions. There is no point in getting into more political speculation about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u160	Thank you, Mr. Pekanov. A second question for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u161	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Deputy Prime Minister Pekanov! For me personally, such a plan must have the ambitions to deal with inequalities that are quite prominent in our country. As an example, I'll give you Pernik region. It is very close to Sofia and the differences both in payments and in jobs, and in everything is big enough and tangible enough to see these inequalities between the districts, albeit neighbouring. Another reflection of this problem is, as an example, that 30 thousand feathered people, for example, each day travel to Sofia to go to work, i.e. they do not seem to have enough conditions in the area where they live. A separate Pernik region is one of the areas that is at the bottom of the absorption of European funds at all, i.e. it has not benefited qualitatively from this opportunity so far. According to the European Commission, apart from Pernik at risk are Kyustendil and Stara Zagora, whom you spoke about. In the initial drafts these three districts walked together, but, unfortunately, in the last draft Pernik and Kyustendil had dropped out, and only Stara Zagora remained. My question is as follows: why was it necessary to remove the Pernish region from the draft that you are proposing, and what are the options for compensation of the area, and what are the priorities? Because, again, and on the part of Europe, they said that this really is an endangered region and that it needs to be approached with greater attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u162	Thank you for your question, Mr. Mirchev, and for your time. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u163	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. First of all, I want to say that you know that I fully share your thoughts and concerns about the state of inequalities in Bulgaria. This is a topic that I have been talking about over the years that we are not doing enough that we are not taking enough socio-economic measures to address them. This part includes, of course, territorial inequalities. Indeed, the Plan, in the way the regulation for the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism is described, requires attempts to make, to address social and territorial cohesion, that is, a more balanced development of the countries. However, with regard to your specific question, I say again, in the field of energy, we have been faced with making very quick decisions on how to over-calibrate the model of the overall component so as to meet the expectations of the European Commission services for more ambition. In this sense, the communication desire was an optimization of current projects. Optimization in this sense meant concentration on where we get the most criticism, namely: Why are you not doing enough in the Marishka Basin? "In this sense the project is currently concentrated there, because anyway the interconnector and inclusion will happen there, economically more efficient was appreciated by the Ministry of Energy, that this resource can be reduced for other regions. But for your question, which, in my opinion, addresses socio-economic risks much more, I say again, the Fair Transition Fund is the mechanism that we need to look at. This is the mechanism that will ensure the transition, the transfer of these people who will be at risk, precisely because of the green transition and the priorities of the European institutions in the coming years.................... these funds 1.2 billion. lv. are allocated precisely to these three regions and that is what we need to use to address these risks. After all, the Recovery and Sustainability Plan is not the only tool. We need to know how to use other tools to address such problems, which, again, I agree absolutely that they are very important and are ill in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u164	Thank you. Second question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am asking this question on behalf of my colleague Kaloyan Yankov, MEP from Veliko Tarnovo. Here we have already talked about the regional imbalance, of course, Northern Bulgaria and especially the Ruse region is a very vivid example, unfortunately, in this respect, despite the huge potential of the Ruse region for the country and Europe at all. I've been through these 57 projects that you're talking about. Unfortunately, there are no projects that obviously help Russians get out of this relative physical isolation from the rest of the country they are in. Therefore, let me ask you: did you not approve, say, a project for the construction of the Ruse highway, which has long been promised by Russian politicians, but has never been realized, or was it simply not proposed by MRRB? And just to say that when we talk about the highway, it's not just about laying asphalt, it's about preserving human capital. Because it is known that this highway, this time rather, is one of the most dangerous in Bulgaria. That's what the statistics say. A very vivid example of this and sadly known is the roundabout movement in Byala. badly designed, discovered in 2010 by Boyko Borisov, but since then the arena of various catastrophes. Along with this, this highway is part of a European Corridor No 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u166	Mr. Tafrov, state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u167	My question is whether such a project has been proposed and you have not approved it, or vice versa, and what are your recommendations to be realized as an important tool for overcoming the regional imbalance of the whole of Northern Bulgaria and especially of the Rusenska and Veliko Tarnovo district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u168	There's no asphalt in the plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u169	Thank you, Mr. Tafrov. Here you go. [[Replications between the MP Stefan Tafrov and the MPs Nikolay Nankov and Tomislav Donchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u170	Let me try to get the answers. Mr. Tafrov, thank you for your questions. I'll start there: don't look at the Plan as an extension of the operational programs. Not everything we can finance through operational programs can go through the Plan. Why? It's no accident that I'm so bruised. The level of ambition in the field of green transition and environmental protection has been quite increased in the last two years. In the new administration of the European Commission, projects require much more serious permission procedures. In this sense, transport infrastructure projects and highways can hardly be allowed in any way precisely because of the principle Do not significant Harm will not be able to pass. This in one respect is the answer to: why such a specific project cannot happen. In a different way, however, I just want to say. I absolutely share the concerns, as you know, about regional imbalances in the country and for individual cities there are no projects at stake, except for Sofia, which somehow managed to fight for half a billion, which we are glad we were able to partially reduce. In this sense, the way the Plan was set, not only did it not help reduce regional imbalances, but could even increase regional imbalances. In this sense, we have tried to take some steps towards this. Separate projects for individual cities could not have been discussed in this short period of time in my opinion, because this whole process would have been very difficult. Most of the cities in Bulgaria need many such projects, however, which must address the requirements of the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u171	Thank you. Second question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u172	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u174	Thank you. Madam President, I ask that we vote on extending the time until the conclusion of item nine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u175	I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the agenda to item nine. Vote 95 MPs: 79, against 4 and abstention 12. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u176	We don't have a quorum! There's no quorum!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u177	No, we'll ask for a name check. That's what we want!?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u178	REPLICATIONS: Revoting, revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u179	There's no quorum!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u180	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u181	I'm asking for a re-vote, because the next step... Re-vote for extension of time by point nine. If there is no quorum, on behalf of a parliamentary group, we will ask for a roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u182	Revoting! They voted 125 MPs: 116 against 5 and abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u183	Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! The preparation of the current National Plan for Reconstruction and Development from the very beginning a year ago began in the dark. Unfortunately, this style remains in the development of all versions of the Plan, including the current one, which is presented to us now. After we made a proposal, Mrs. Manolova, at the beginning of the year, at the end of January and at the beginning of February, for a hearing on this subject, the aim was not to pretend to be oppositionists, but to have a discussion and debates to see all the aspects of opportunities that could be realized through this recovery and development plan, we had turned to the portfolio deputy prime minister at the time, but also this discussion did not take place for reasons that we could not understand. It was included on the agenda of the 44th National Assembly, but it did not take place. The caretaker government has also made the revision of the Plan in the dark, again without any public discussion, and you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have said this with the reasons you have pointed out and I will not repeat it. The result is not satisfactory again, and I will say why. Once again, the European Commission's main requirement to base the plan on structural reforms leading to economic growth has not been met. This is the European Commission's requirement. Here I hear from colleagues asking about individual projects this is not a separate operational programme and the assembly of operational programmes. The reasons, the purpose and what gives us as a horizon this plan is extremely serious and we really need to take advantage of it. One of the main remarks of the first plan that the private sector has not been taken into account and in the version currently under discussion has not been sufficiently taken into account. On the contrary, there is a deterioration in the approach and I will say why. It is an unsatisfying option because European Union grants for business are converted into loan guarantees from banks and into business funding from investment funds. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because it's business that generates growth. In the improved plans of the other countries of the European Union so far, this is the case, and this is the case in countries with developed economies that are betting on grants for business, and the expectations are to have economic growth, to have a product that we particularly need, given that our country is the poorest in the European Union, with the lowest gross domestic product. I'm moving on, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. So you have to bet on innovative technologies, you have to bet on decarbonisation, on hydrogen technologies, on gasification. And we see that the necessary attention is not paid to all of this as an innovative approach with a view to a product.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u185	Mr. Chakarov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u186	I'll be done immediately, Madam President. From the DPS we will take an attitude for the Irrigation Systems, because this is very important. I am also an MP from an area where there is an acute need for this from Silistra, the whole of Northeastern Bulgaria. In southern Bulgaria, many lands are deserted, where if there were irrigation systems, they would be rehabilitated and would work. Last, Madam President. My question to you, Deputy Prime Minister, is: who do you expect to achieve growth according to the current version of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the public sector or the business, who will produce added value, the state administration and the public sector or the private sector? Because the dominant in the current version is the public sector and the state as a beneficiary, but they will not give the expected product. All these efforts must be focused on innovative technologies and on business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u188	Thanks for asking. A few details. I wouldn't say it was drawn in the dark, but on the contrary. In the ministries, as with me, there were meetings with civil society, NGOs, individual ministries, we also spoke with the representatives of the Tristranka, and now this is the discussion with you. Yes, maybe it should have happened sooner, but there was no parliament and there was no real way to institutionalize this in the right way. This is the tribune on which such an important strategic document to be discussed and then to decide how to use these funds. In this sense, this is, I refer to it again and I have already mentioned it several times, the balance between grants and financial instruments in the way that is currently at stake was strong opinion of the Ministry of Economy, who believe that this is an important approach to introduce a part with financial instruments. We can discuss the balance here. I understand the concerns, and maybe we're looking for a better balance. After all, yes, I agree, Grants will lead to grants and consequently to an incentive for the sector. I see. About innovative technologies and private investment. After all, in the way the Plan is currently set, I have already said that the expectations are $12.6 billion. lv. This resource, which will come from Europe, will activate another 8 billion. lv. private investment. Yeah, maybe that's small, and maybe we should look for more possibilities to multiply that, I get it. But in this short period of time, we have not seen a new technology that we have not paid attention to, we have not seen a project proposal that is oriented towards the future, from which to look away, and in this short period these are the things and projects that we have managed to put in absolute partnership with all ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming! Come on in, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u190	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Reform 2 is at stake in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which is a reform for continuing the reform of the water sector. In particular, it provides for several activities - one is the adoption of a new law on water services, separation of the water regulator and as a whole reconstruction of the water infrastructure in some areas of the country. Here I would like to draw your attention to the water infrastructure in Dobrich district. I do not know if you are aware what an ulcer for the budget of Bulgaria is the water infrastructure in Dobrich district, where most of the water, not to say almost all, is supplied with pumps due to the characteristics of the area and the lack of well-built water sources. These pumps use electricity, this current costs money, and ultimately the result is that the water, due to the large losses of over 80. 90%, runs out of these pipes and between 10 and 20% reach consumers, that is, the state pays huge funds for electricity to irrigate the neighboring territories of the water supply and sewerage system. It is insane in the 21st century in the village of Stojeer, which is one of the strong agricultural villages in Dobrichka municipality, to have no water for a third month. This is again because of this infrastructure, i.e. because of this infrastructure losing the state, losing the business, losing the tourists in the village of Bulgaria and the small entrepreneurs there. And my question to you is: is there a possibility, or is something in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, so as to invest these so needed 100 million. lv. in the water infrastructure in Dobrich and stop this loss and waste of water in Northeastern Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u191	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u192	Thank you very much for the question. Two answers or two references. With regard to the reform, it is an old reform, which was part of the different versions of the Plan. There have not been any concerns here or in any way any adjustments by the MRDP and the water holding company to change it in the way it is asked. With regard to resources, we need to bear in mind that for the reconstruction and modernisation of the water infrastructure we have three feathers for the smallest settlements in the RDP, for those between 2000 and 10,000 inhabitants is the current programme in the Plan, as it is not covered and these agglomerations are not covered by the operational programs, and for the largest settlements over 10 000, I think these improvements can be made under the OPOS. That is, in this sense, no such amendment has been made at the time or we have not had the opportunity to address it. We can discuss it, but I don't think it's going to go into the current version. It's not discussed to come in. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this, we have exhausted this procedure and are moving towards expressing attitude from the parliamentary groups to the Minister's answers. There is such a people. Would you like to show some respect? I don't see anyone who wants to. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Donchev. Ah, I apologize, Mr. Donchev. Hurry up and react! Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u194	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Firstly, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to hold this expert meeting last week, Mr. Pekanov, between an expert group of What concerns us, perhaps further, and Minister Petkov will address the issue is: why should 1.7 billion bet? lv. for education and innovation You expect only such a modest growth of 0,3% of the gross product, but perhaps this will already be technologically explained further?! Separately, what worries us about public finances, because from.There is such a people.We are particularly sensitive about this topic, is: why is it necessary to build this type of innovation agency, and we believe that it is possible to carry out this activity in principle from the relevant department.... the Ministry of Education and Science and also from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences? The plan is generally bold. The plan is brave! We have received your assurances that it can be accepted in full, can be adopted within the necessary regulatory time limits, so that it can happen that it is not amusing, which is exclusively in the interest of the state and in the interests of all future projects that will be set in relation to it. We would like to thank you, and our recommendations are to be bolder in terms of making investments, respectively, not as a nominally ordinary commercial growth, and in relation to them being bolder, especially in the agriculture and innovation part, because there the added value that is generated is much greater in our vision that can be realized, and it could actually be expressed in times and not just in percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u195	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u196	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Much of the speeches of this tribune follow an aspiration for lower and minor political passions. I'll try to set an example in another direction. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I don't think anyone better than me can understand what it's like to have to balance between different mutually exclusive demands or desires whose realization is impossible. I'll start with the positive. Firstly, congratulations and gratitude that the conceptual framework of the document has not been changed. I haven't done content analysis, but let's say he's at 85% version, editing the old plan. A disastrous adventure would be in the short horizon of the office to write a new plan. That would be a mistake and congratulations for not making that mistake! Congratulations on the increased funds in the field of education, science, innovation. If I had to bully politically, I'd comment on what, but I'm not gonna bicker, congratulations on that, including on the field of health. I am pleased to note that the budget has been increased for some projects that are included in the Plan due to my personal insistence, including the rapid reaction system for strokes, and that is good. Congratulations on the higher level of ambition, including reform-related. Of course, it should not be forgotten, from our experience with the preconditions or so-called exante conditionalities, that it is easier to commit to reforms, and a little harder to fulfill them, but it will be a commitment of governments from now on. And if I mentioned that with the conceptual framework we have no problem, that is not the situation in some sectors. Firstly, I believe that the withdrawal of irrigation, whatever difficulties it may have, is a mistake. Sanitation is not going to happen. Whatever moral dispute there is, it's not going to happen. And I say it absolutely well-meaningly, not for anything else, but because we tried it ten years ago. One entrance will always find one person, one owner who will not want to give 2000 leva, and there will be no Association of Owners. Fact. The theme is the money for Sofia and the money for the other regions of the country. A balanced approach is needed here, and my purely collegiate council is not just to look at gross domestic product per capita. There are other factors, needs, including one factor, which is an extremely strong argument when we talk about public investment number of users, and I would not recommend radicalisation in either or in the other topic. It's completely incomprehensible to drop street lighting. It's a mistake that still has time to be corrected. If in terms of sanitization we have an element of moral gambling, some get money for their private properties, street lighting is an undisputed project. This means less costs of electricity, higher quality of life, more security in cities and for me it is a mistake that this project has dropped out. One of the major topics is the ratio of financial instruments to finance. I understand there's a dispute in the government. I'll take the liberty of reminding myself of a few principles. Firstly, European money must finance what cannot be financed otherwise, on the one hand. On the other hand, to realize that by comparing the opportunities of the Bulgarian business with a neighbouring Greece, we often give it as an example, whose companies have been for 30 years not 10 years and have received free funding for 30 years, there are situations where free funding is without alternative. I would recommend a percentage between 10 and 25. 10% is the average draft financial instruments for the entire financial framework. A quarter is divided into the money from OPIC. Not taller. This will eroticize the opportunities of the Bulgarian business. However, the most open issues are in the field of energy. I understand the need for a quick response from you, but the inclusion of such ambitious projects, huge capacities of very high value, so quickly cannot go through detailed analysis, costs and benefits. I am aware that this conversation cannot be conducted without the participation of the Minister of Energy. By asking the stenographers to very carefully record what I have said, because I will allow myself in a year or two to return to my words. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u197	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Will you express your attitude from the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! Certainly the plan is better, more ambitious, more informative than the previous one, but at the same time we cannot expect miracles from you. After all, you are only a two-month minister, and it is good for the MPs to know that this plan ultimately does not replace those projects that have dropped out of the operational programmes in any way or to finance projects that need to be financed by the budget. This plan must be visionary for the country's sustainable development with new sources of economic growth. This is a plan to lay the foundations for a new economic model based on knowledge, digital economy and green energy. Of course, we can not help but congratulate you that the first steps are aimed at a reform that was required by the European Commission in the area of social assistance. Along with the team of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, you have launched an extremely good reform that is needed. Of course, money that is about research and innovation, intelligent industry is in excess, which is commendable. Only there are a lot of cons. The negatives already said that. All colleagues have noted the lack of real funds. If we want to have sustainable agriculture, we must have irrigation. There's no other way this could happen, and that's why we need serious investment. So dropping this project to restore irrigation systems for us is totally unacceptable. Because in recent research, honourable Members, here in the Balkans in the coming years, drought is expected and we really need to be prepared for these climate changes. Now's the time. That is why these plans are so that we can prepare ourselves and, of course, lay the foundations for a new economic growth. The financial instruments have already been said. I personally do not understand this love of the caretaker government for financial instruments, provided that the Bulgarian business wants something else. After all, these financial instruments remain mostly unusable, but you continue and continue to focus on them. The big question of energy, as Mr. Donchev said, which unfortunately came out, is open. Let us not forget that the other countries made advice to the Council of Ministers whether it was a fair transition, whether it was a low-carbon economy, and we at the Council of Ministers had something on paper. Those people didn't get together once. One Czech Republic, honourable Members, has 32 models of how this fair transition will be made. We cannot expect from the minister suddenly, when a bold proposal comes out, to say whether it is good or bad. This is teamwork and it is really necessary to have more expertise. Unfortunately, we have missed a very valuable time, and such advice is essential. It is extremely disturbing for us from the Left that there is no way to respond to the modern challenges of digital transformation and the entry of artificial intelligence. Is the influence of artificial intelligence on the labour market and automation of many processes accounted for? This is a process that will deepen inequalities in society and much of the professions will become unnecessary. We must think right now: what are we doing with these people, and how are we responding to this new transformation that is coming? Unfortunately, I don't see that ambition in this plan. Much of the European countries are already giving answers to these transformations that are coming, but we here seem to be afraid of being more visionary. And that's exactly what we should be chasing. And finally, Mr. Secretary, you have made a plan. What do we do from now on? Is this plan being submitted to Parliament, as I have been president of the Committee on European Affairs for a year and a half and I have been struggling and have received the approval of the European Commission to look at these plans in national parliaments? This was done by Germany, by France, by Italy, by all developed countries. In Bulgaria, however, no one paid attention to me and we never looked at this plan in the Bulgarian Parliament. Or are you prepared to send this plan directly to Brussels, at least to start the process? Colleagues, otherwise we're waiting for a next cabinet to eventually reacquaint the Plan and it becomes New Year's Eve, and we still won't have a betrayed Plan?! I mean, the difference, Mr. Minister, between you and GERB seems to be gone. That's why you must have that courage to show what you want. If you wish, send it, but it really must start the process and the European Commission should say what it agrees with, which it does not agree with. Then you said: there are two open topics about the rule of law and about energy. Only these two things can be handled by the next parliament, but we must start the process or, as the other Member States did, listened to what Bulgaria insisted mostly on and Ursula von der Lyon, they should be seen in the Bulgarian Parliament. Bring it in, to reach a consensus at last and indeed the Plan to give him life. Otherwise consultations, consultations, consultations, but, unfortunately, the result is, as before, just talking and finally nothing, and the people really expect us to be bolder, to have more visionary thinking and to really step on the new incentives for economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u199	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u200	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, first of all, I would like to thank Mr. Pekanov and his team for their efforts to make this plan better. Of course, this is a great opportunity that will mark the Bulgarian development for the next decade. Unfortunately, from the moment of our membership in the European Union until now, we have the same findings. Here in the Plan I will find out what is the main challenge for regions and municipalities. Naturally, I will talk about this as a person with great experience in this area. In the years following the country's accession to the European Union, regional disproportions in development have increased. The dominant southwest region has managed to significantly catch up on its abandonment to the EU regions, while the Northwestern region is deepening its backwardness, towards the rest of the country and almost all observed areas of socio-economic development. Naturally, as a representative of the Northwest Planning Region, we are Vidin, Vratsa, Montana, Pleven and Lovech, the idea was to include Pleven to pull the area, and it became so that because of our inclusion in this area, we may be pulling back? However, the fact is that in the Northwestern planning area is quite bad. Unfortunately, this extends to all of Northern Bulgaria. It is obvious that the entire regional policy since our entry into the European Union has achieved nothing so far. 25% of the country's gross domestic product is produced in the North and 75% are produced in the South, in Sofia, 40%. And when it says: we're going to build kindergartens in Sofia, I mean we're going to make sure that we invest regionally properly so that people stay where they were born, where they want to live, there to create children and there to exist, and not to come to Sofia to build kindergartens for them, because that's not the solution. I must tell you that there has been a study of the European Union ten years ago, according to which we have another five years, in which, if we do not achieve a definite reduction in regional disproportions, we are talking already about a gap, a huge gap, then probably very soon a third of Bulgaria will live in Sofia. This has already happened, one third between Varna and Burgas and one third in the rest of the territory. And when Mr. Donchev talked about other indicators, yes, there are other indicators. The other indicators are that in Vidin the average salary is three times lower than in Sofia. These are the other indicators. The other indicators are that there are no equal opportunities for access to education, culture, health care in the Northwestern planning area. There's not a single university in the geographical northwest. There are established universities in Sofia, in Plovdiv, in Varna. From every young man who leaves the Northwest, one returns when he's ten. In this sense, I would hope that this plan will be improved, upgraded, upgraded and there will be more for municipalities and for regions. To be honest, I don't see the great courage to overcome interregional differences. Local development in the previous Plan was 7.5% funds, now significantly less. I do not see why there are no common projects of municipalities bordering on the Danube River, for example along the Danube Strategy line? I don't see why there are no clear answers to the question: will there be a tunnel under Shipka? I know that not everything should be financed from here, but I, and Evelyn Stoyanov from the Democratic Republic of Gabrovo ask when will there finally be a faster connection between the South and the North? Is there going to be a tunnel? When is Hemus Highway going to take place? When will the road from Botevgrad to Vidin take place? When will the road take place from Veliko Tarnovo to Ruse? All major problems without which we in the North cannot successfully pull forward. Let's all be clear, we have very little time. I would hope that the next government, and the majority here, will make sure that these extraordinary differences... the gap between the South and the North is overcome. So many years after the Unification of Bulgaria we are divided again. We are divided into the South and the North and contrary to all Europe and the whole world, where the North is richer and the South is poorer and where the richest are near the big rivers and in Bulgaria is the opposite. This means to us bad policy, bad regional policy, no attention being paid to municipalities, nothing being said about financial decentralisation, the Decentralisation Council no longer exists and does not work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u201	Your time is up, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u202	I mean, both me and my colleagues are ringing the bell about this: let's make more efforts to give the North a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u203	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u204	Madam President, thank you. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! First of all, congratulations on the fact that in short term you have nevertheless made a serious effort to correct the plan, to complete it in some way. What I'm going to say further as a criticism of the Plan is rather treating you at least, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, because you said how it was done. Obviously, you have had more coordinating role between the different ministries, agencies, at all the units that work, and between the European Commission or the authorities with which some detail needs to be agreed. Our criticism is regarding, first of all, the way this plan has been corrected. It is quite obvious that when you completed it, you called all the parliamentary groups, including us, that you published the Plan, let's have a discussion and so on. However, our opinion is that the discussion should have been before that. We've heard the explanation that under campaign conditions, this seemed inappropriate to you. I will tell you that it is not inappropriate, I will give you an example, of course, with my party. We started development and analysis of what economic programme Bulgaria needs in 2017 and in 2017 we wrote the programme with these priorities. Because in 2017 we felt that since Bulgaria needs accelerated economic growth, it cannot be obtained in any other way than on the basis of high technologies, digitalization and, of course, of green economy. Thank God we did it then, we announced it, it's written. Thank God there is dating in computers because it happened that the European Union then accepted these priorities three years later. We don't claim innovation, but we claim otherwise. If you had contacted us during the beginning of the work on the Plan, you would have received many ideas, quite well-intentionedly, many discussions and we would have judged from every point of view, and especially from macroeconomics, how these funds could speed up the economy. Because here recovery is just a nuance. If you ask me, recovery is an occasion, a reason for the European Union to raise these funds and to do so in connection with the climate crisis. The idea here is for development and it is very accurately said. And development on what? Right on the green economy and on high technology and digitalisation. On the threshold of the hydrogen age, even some are already there, of course, we had to consider whether there should be hydrogen technology or research on it, or whether we should co-opt with other countries what Germany is doing so that we can finally, once we can get ahead of others in this regard. Quite the opposite has happened. As far as the way it was made, because now, however open the door, it is very slightly open for corrections already. Our other criticism is regarding macroeconomic indicators to assess the impact of the Plan. They are, to say the least, puzzling. They're from the 289th page on the Plan. And there it is said, for example, for 2023 that the impact of the Investment Plan will be only 0.4 points, and on consumption.. 25.5 points. The situation is similar for 2024 and further. If this is true, it is very bad for the Plan and for the economy, because it will strengthen imports, it will overheat the economy with this consumption. And the opposite effect will cause damage to the Bulgarian economy. If it is not true, correct it, because this macroeconomic picture will most likely puzzle the European Commission very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u205	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u206	That's not true. Well, I'm glad to hear it, that's a better option. Otherwise, the plan could have been rejected. That's not the plan's purpose. Further on the specifics. I have always been a supporter of the financial instruments, as they say, that I have been working for a very long time, but in this plan I particularly believe that their role has been exaggerated. They don't have a direct effect. That multiplier effect you're looking for is not going to work with this plan. And the way in which they are described and made, with one portal, exported outside Bulgaria, the European Investment Bank, which will manage these projects, understand, will say what is going on, what is not going on with proper coordination. For today, I think it's enough to point out the cat that's peeking behind the gate, but he's still peeking. That's the way it is. They had to be very well thought out and coordinated with all these tools, because this is exactly the way and exactly in this volume will be very difficult to work with. And if they work, they'll work for a few. Be assured of that. We have extensive experience in Bulgaria with such a way of working.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u207	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u208	Very fast. You give the others one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u209	Well, it's been six minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u210	Oh, okay. Thank you, then. In general, I would like to conclude that this discussion is not sufficient. Yeah, we're in the zone, there's no time, but the plan needs to be thought through one more time, maybe in a faster order. We need to take further different opinions, correct certain projects and tools, because this will not give the necessary effect again. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u211	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. And from.. Stand up................................................ come
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Pekanov, our parliamentary group is pleased that we have initiated this hearing because it has somehow replaced the outstanding debate on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. A lot of important things have been heard. I think, Mr. Pekanov, you should write down a word of irrigation. Scratch the Irritative Systems because this is the unique company that had to invest in Bulgaria's irrigation systems and instead it took out the pipes and sold them for about 10 million leva. Now someone wants to give him 850 million. leva to put new ones. This is not going to happen, but irrigation needs to be done, because irrigation is not just a problem of agriculture. Irrigation is the management of water resources, floods, crisis situations. Irrigation is also a cheap way to generate clean energy. So this topic won't go away. Our advice to you is to reconsider how investment in irrigation can be returned to the plan or be pledged in some way so that they can happen because there is no other public resource to provide such a volume of investment. Another question is whether this should happen with a canal here, a tube there, or should some more orderly approach lead to a result, because obviously also by 850 million. lv. the Bulgarian irrigation systems will not be rehabilitated. But from private, let's go to common ground. What are our conclusions from this discussion? Firstly, something that is not your fault remains the deep regional imbalance in this plan. It will be difficult enough time, perhaps to compensate for it, but also the measures you propose somehow do not address this problem. The processing you are proposing does not solve this problem. I'm going to give an example of the famous industrial zones. Yes, it is good to put them at a competitive start, but this automatically leads us to the option in which the big city centers will bloom in several more industrial areas if we follow this principle from the end to the end. That's not how regional development is done. This does not stimulate development, so does not balance the distorted Bulgarian economy, the distorted regional development in Bulgaria. So consider things in this plan as well. Yes, that's how you inherited it, but the attempt to streamline this measure leads nowhere in this way. So our conclusion is that regional imbalances remain, continue and are not a solution, are not addressed even in what you propose as changes. The second observation is the sectoral imbalance, which also remains in the proposed plan. Yes, he was even deeper in his previous version, but the consequences of the conflict concern all sectors, or most of them at least. The measures proposed by both the previous and the current option concern only some and do not solve the common problem. Think about whether something can be done there, because in this version we will deepen industry differences. Once again, I will give an example of agriculture - reducing agricultural funds does not solve this problem, none of the problems, as is the plan. Think about how this can be compensated. And the third conclusion is something I would call commercializing the Plan. In other words, the weight of the element of financial instruments vis-à-vis the grant. Sustainable development, change in the course of development is not achieved with financial instruments, it happens with grants, it becomes forceful if you want to put it that way. Fighting climate change will not work with bank financing. It will be done with grants, with efforts, concentrating the state to change the course of things, the course of economic development. Because the natural, market economy leads us to the least resistance where it is easiest, where it is most effective. But the most effective, at least in the first phase, is never the most sustainable in the long term. So our advice is: consider in this direction whether the plan can be streamlined because otherwise we will find ourselves with wonderful effective measures that cannot be absorbed by the Bulgarian economy. Not to mention that even if I do not like the word "useful," they will not lead to the desired result that we will have to measure, and in a very short period. We have five years when this has to happen. We are not talking about operational programmes that are far in the future. We are talking about a relatively short period in which it should have an effect. Effect in two directions? dealing with the consequences of the climate crisis and achieving the objectives of combating climate change. We fear that there is insufficient of this in the current version of the Plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u213	Your time is running out, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u214	Yes, I'm graduating, Madam President. I apologize. Otherwise, the last place for Bulgaria has already been won along the deadline for submission. You're actually leaving two important discussions open. One for justice, which is largely decided in society, must be decided here in the National Assembly. One that may be easier to decide here.. for energy, but society has yet to make its decisions. However, our proposal is: hurry up with the completion and submission of this plan, and this discussion should take place in this Chamber of the National Assembly or in any subsequent one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u215	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. With this, the hearing point of Deputy Prime Minister Atanas Pekanov on the changes in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan is over. We thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Moving on to the next point: HEARING THE MINISTER OF ECONOMIC KIRYL PETKOV ON THE BASIS 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE BULGARIAN SUPERVISION BANK The importers of the request? Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your patience and the time you were here today to wait for the point. The Bulgarian Development Bank was created to support the development of small and medium-sized business and thus build a strong backbone of the Bulgarian economy, which stimulates entrepreneurship and causes growth of gross domestic product. Over the years, the management of the bank has raised serious doubts as to whether it is acting under this mission, and the revelations of the office over the past two months have finally confirmed the belief that the bank is acting in violation of the BBI Act. Apropo here is part of my colleagues as colleague Martin Dimitrov, with which in the years when the Triple Coalition created the law, we warned repeatedly that there is a prerequisite for this bank to become a party bank and a bank for a red cash register. This situation, which is happening, imposes a number of questions to which the government and the management of the bank owe answers to the Bulgarian citizens. First, to confirm the state of the bank's loan portfolio and how much of the loans are concentrated in several companies at the expense of the many small and medium-sized enterprises in the country? I know, Minister, that you can't break banking secrecy, and I don't expect specific names from you from this tribune, but I expect the analysis that needs to be done. Secondly, what is the reason for such an investment or, frankly, a corrupt move to give huge amounts of credit to units of enterprises, contrary to the bank's mission? Thirdly, are there links between the borrowers of the bank, connections that suggest that the bank has favored a certain business or oligarchic circles in the distribution of public funds? The answer to these questions opens the door to legitimate public concerns about the structure of these large loans. What are the conditions under which these loans were granted? What grace period was provided to borrowers and how much preferential were the repayment plans for them? And to make it clear to Bulgarian citizens, I will not talk about a loan of 100 million, 50 million or 200 million. I'm going to talk about a $1 million loan, putting the figures in the back so that everyone can imagine, with one 10-year repayment plan, only that in this plan there is only a 2% interest rate, and only in the tenth year of this grace period, there is a maturity?! Was there such a scheme? Because that means that someone today gets a million dollars and pays some 20 grand a year only interest at 2%, and on the tenth year they have to pay back the entire amount. Is there a Bulgarian citizen to receive, or a company in the country, such credit? Have you ever heard of him? And only when it comes to it, we're talking about loans that have a zero in the back. On the basis of your answers, it is also appropriate to ask the question: whose responsibility is it, Minister, for issuing these loans in this way, if it exists? Where has the Ministry of Economy been all these years? What were the Governor and the Supervisory Board doing? Who approved these credits? Given this bank's management, it becomes extremely important to identify right now, preventively, whether there are risks to the bank when it comes to meeting the maturity of the loans taken to capitalise it? In particular, what are the terms and maturitys of the funding with the We want to know when he's due back, is there a strategy to repay him? Finally, we expect you to explain how the Ministry of Economy intends to restore the functioning of the bank in accordance with the law? This question includes two dimensions. First, what measures will be taken to protect the bank's financial interest both in the future and in relation to the loans already granted. Secondly, how will you return the Bulgarian Development Bank or what strategy after you to its most important mission and it is to support small and medium-sized enterprises? Thank you for your attention. I'll take an interest in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Dear Minister Petkov, come in. Within ten minutes, one introductory statement before the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u218	Dear Members of Parliament, thank you for these questions, because they are important to all of us. The Bulgarian Development Bank was created to support the development of small and medium-sized businesses, especially in situations where commercial banks cannot lend loans to start-ups, companies that are newly established, or companies with high innovation and high risk. At the moment, unfortunately, the bank was handing out large loans. These large loans are distributed in a certain range of companies, outside the BBI Act and outside its statute and strategy. As I have shared more than once since I became a minister, the 20 largest loans cover 90% of the bank's funds. We're talking over two billion. BGN, with the average amount of debt being about 80 million. Compared to most development banks around the world, this is unheard of! Just to compare, the Canadian Development Bank mainly finances loans below 500 thousand, that is why they are there. Now, what we found in the last month since we had... As you know, in eight weeks, we haven't had the opportunity to change the Supervisory Board, as well as the Bank's Board of Management, so we have a few weeks in which we have been able to get acquainted with some of the information. The first thing is that... the excuse why so much credit was being given was to make a profit. These loans were profitable for the bank. What we do notice, however, is that for 2020, we have a loss of 130 million, and for the first 6 months of this year the loss will be nearly 100 million. So the idea that these loans were there to win the bank is clearly not true. The other thing we noticed when we talked to risk management about the bank, the risk of the bank was in no way trying to see if there was a connection between borrowers. On the contrary, they worked in the exact opposite of logic when they tried to justify that they didn't. In fact, it was not here to control the risk of the bank but to enable these large exposures to be credited despite their risk. The next thing that made a huge impression is that the average maturity of these 20 loans exceeds 10 years. The other thing that is a fact is that most of them have the so-called bubble payment at the end, as the question has been asked, you pay your interest for 10 years and eventually the whole principal comes suddenly. These loans exist around the world, but they are high-risk and usually collateral should be very serious when you expect someone to pay you back your money in 10 years. What did we see about collateral? And here I'm going to give specific examples without saying the names of the companies so I don't break banking secrecy. But here's a $150 million loan that has some properties as collateral. The loan agreement says: the borrower cannot dispose of this real estate in any way until this loan is paid, but if it does, the fine is BGN 5000!? For a $150 million loan?! Second case like this, again for 150 million. The guarantee of some of the companies is the commercial enterprise itself. In other words, if the business is very successful, the company is placed against this loan. We are talking about a loan of 150 million again, where the income was nearly 1 million to this company when the loan was given, then the business plan is very aggressive. The sales are 14 times more, provided within the next five years, and the price for the goods doubles. We're talking 28 times the increase. On the basis of this business plan 150 million are given. lv. Credit. Third case - 100-million-dollar credit. We have a company that is struggling, but this company has a very good real estate asset. This asset may actually pay off the amount if it is sold if this company enters into default, but here comes a consultant, an external consultant who is attracted by the bank's managers, who says: we know how to restructure this loan in the most effective way. And how do we do that? We divide this company into two companies, one takes the good asset, and the other one doesn't. Unfortunately, however, most of the loan goes to the company, which does not have the good asset. Thus good company, good daughter company in no way covers the risk on the loan of the bad. Moreover, an interesting separation of risk and the loan, it is very clear that the risk of the bank has been fully compromised in the most inappropriate way. By this case, by the way, let me just say, right now, Oversight is collecting this data and putting it in the D.A.'s office. Here is a very obvious contribution for us, because it was not even so at the very beginning of the loan. It's a risk restructuring. Okay. The other thing that's very interesting to us as a way of ruling. Since 2017, managers have changed, but the lending approach remains. How did who make these decisions? Why, in a new, supposedly professional Board of Directors, the way these loans were given has not changed to such an extent that just before we entered the management for one single issue, another 150 million credit would have been given. Okay. Despite all these things, the state has put in huge amounts of money. We're talking $1 billion. 440 million of our money, the taxpayer. She's very capitalized. The good news in this fact is that the bank is stable even if these loans do not return because there is too much liquidity. In other words, the bank is stable, but it is stable because taxpayers have contributed 1 billion. 440 million. The bad news is that we do not believe and the Governing Council does not believe that some of these loans will be returned the way they were promised, and this will cause serious losses from the bank's same money. This is the actual state, this is what we were able to see after eight weeks of fighting to change the supervision of this bank, which, by the way, his experience in banking is not very great. The latter Oversight was of primary qualification and greatest experience in the Privatization Agency. These loans were given and supervised and controlled by people who were not from the banking sector. In interviews with some of them, we were told that even the managers did not report each of these loans to Oversight, but simply submitted a folder of documents that was for signature and approval. Okay. But what are we going to do from now on? It's a fact. It happened. Now the first thing is, we want to complete the detailed analysis of each of these credits. What does that mean? We want to evaluate every asset that stands behind so we know exactly what the bank's risk is. In the case of violations that we have already established, we will also give to the judicial system claims to the prosecution for irregularities and, in our opinion, absolutely damaging actions of the previous Board of Directors and Oversight. But this bank makes sense to me because there isn't a big country, a successful country that doesn't have such a bank. My best example is for Canada Development Bank, which if you actually go to the website, you can even go now as we speak, on your phones you will see the first focus: starters with no history of 12 months. Here, if you just started a company 12 months ago, if you go to the big banks, the commercial banks, they'll tell you: you don't have enough experience. The second big chapter in the Canadian Development Bank "Starting companies under 24 months with innovative products." In fact, the idea of this type of bank is to finance the launch of companies that would fall from commercial banks, not because commercial banks are bad. It's just not their business. The creation of this type of company can change the fate of the Bulgarian economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u219	Mr. Petkov, if you want, leave your time in the unlimited minutes you have for answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u220	Yeah, okay. In other words, it makes sense. This bank can support the Bulgarian start-ups. It can be the Bulgarian Sky, partly financed by this bank. It's just that each of us has to make sure that this bank never gives out this type of credit like this again, because for me it's just stealing the taxpayer's money to take this type of risk for this type of amount in this way. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u221	Thank you. Let's move on to the questions. There's such a people. Come on in. I'm going to ask everyone who asks questions to limit themselves within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u222	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I regret that there is no Minister Vassilev in the Chamber, because my questions will be mutually relevant...................the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. I start with the specifics, as many of you will probably ask questions related to the Bulgarian Development Bank. I will ask questions about another institution, which represents a little black box for most of us and for most of the citizens of Bulgaria. This is what is called the Fund Fund Fund. Currently, Deputy Minister of Finance Violeta Lorere is monitoring the activities of Fund Manager of Financial Instruments in Bulgaria. At the same time, her husband Daniel Lorre is a partner in BrightCap, which is a partner of the Ministry of Economy and of Jeremy Bulgaria. It's public information. Since 2011, there have been companies that have received funding under The question is: what is the effect measured by the performance indicators of the Foundation "Jeremy Bulgaria"? Is there a concentration of funds managed through specific partners? Who are they? Is the National Assembly able to obtain information about the funds, time period and the specific partner companies of the Fund of Funds, and especially the Fund of Jeremy Bulgaria? Since you are a zealous fighter, Mr. Minister, to minimize corruption and prevent conflict of interest in the Bulgarian state as a whole, as we wish this to be achieved, of course, I would like to ask you: do you think that the above fact can be considered a conflict of interest? Minister Petkov, do you have any connectivity, albeit not legal, but business connectivity, with Elvin Guri, Daniel Lorre, as well as with Evgeni Angelov, economic adviser during the time of President Plevneliev and Chairman of the Bulgarian Association for Equity and Risk Investments? Have these gentlemen consulted you on the financial instrument tickets related to the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan? Why, after you have taken power in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, neither Minister Vassilev, nor have you changed the corrupt criteria set in the programs of the so-called Fund Fund Fund from the Ministry of Finance itself, but I suppose consulted with the Ministry of Economy? These criteria were set even during the time of Vladislav Goranov, with the protection of Tomislav Donchev and the partners of the Fund from the time of GERB, such as "Silverline" managed by Evgeni Angelov to remind again that this is President Plevneliev's economic adviser. Is he robbing the fruits of the seeds he visited a while ago, taking advantage of his power as an economic adviser to President Plevneliev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u223	Mr. Karimansky, your time is long gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u224	I'm done, I'm done. It's my first time, so you're gonna have to put up with me a little bit. Another typical example is just to give the company, run by Elvin Guri, and the husband of current Deputy Minister of Finance Violeta Lorre Daniel Lorre. My question is: exactly how do you fight against these corrupt practices, which we are certainly fighting against and will fight? Do you think that the Fund of Funds works transparently enough according to the criteria set by GERB and respected by you so far? [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u225	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u226	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u227	Personal explanation, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u228	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! About Mr. Karimansky's line. In my career, no matter what position I'm in, I didn't run any corruption scheme! Not just that. However, if a minister or deputy prime minister is concerned with developing criteria for a free funding scheme or a financial instrument, it means that he is not doing his job. Its goal is to form policies, not criteria for access. I would agree with you here if any politician works in detail according to the criteria of a scheme, this is a high corruption risk. I never let myself do that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u229	Mr. Donchev, you have, exceptionally, taken the floor. Come in for an answer, Minister Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u230	Thanks for asking. One of the most valuable things I can say that I own is independence. I don't have any of the partners that you shared, and I manage, I managed, I apologize, before I enter as a minister, a very successful company that is fully funded with private capital, in which I am a majority shareholder. No one's ever invested that kind of fund with me. This independence gives me the opportunity in this role right now to be able to do all the things I do. Because no one can call me on the phone and no one can influence me on any policy. That's all I wanted to say. There's no point in going through all the names you shared. I don't have any business with any of these people. However, the only thing I can say about Deputy Minister Violeta Lorre is that I have rarely met such a high professional. What I know about her is that, working for a large European company as a financier, over a 10-billion-dollar company, the entire Board of the company begged her to stay in Switzerland and continue working instead of returning to Bulgaria. She is one of those people who can ignore their own, even financial interest, because she also cares for this country to change. So if you, which you declare, are the same, meet with her. You will appreciate what a high capacity and what a high integrity this person has. I mean, because I realized that right now I don't have to limit my time on the occasion of financial instruments, because very surprisingly, I've heard from a lot of the groups that this is a big problem. I just want to tell you one thing that has to do with the BBI, about the financial instruments, where we invest. Let's go back to what today's Bulgarian economy is like. We have 400,000 companies that are actually operating on something. Unfortunately, only 15% of these 400,000 companies have export potential. Doesn't mean they're moving out. They have export potential. This means that they can be competitive potentially on the external markets. Of these 15% only a percentage and a half have productivity over Europeans. But somehow some entrepreneurs in Bulgaria have succeeded, despite all the difficulties, despite the administrative obstacles, despite corruption, to make companies that have higher productivity than the European average. There's something I'd like to share with you. If you want to change Bulgaria and the Bulgarian economy, we cannot do the same, which we have done in the last 10 years. This percentage and a half of the best Bulgarian companies if we manage their productivity to upload it to 15 percent of the companies that have export potential, the Bulgarian economy will double, people! Double it! So we have two options. One option is to say: what about our constituents, our companies that support us, want grenades and these grants should be given in the same way that the operational programs have been handing them out in recent years. The other option is to say: all highly innovative companies are actually financed by equity instruments. When money is not given to you, and someone has invested, and the one who has invested is not a civil servant, it is someone who understands how to invest, the chance to create more of these highly productive companies is many times greater. The other thing about Jeremy is a very successful program for me. "Jeremy " is not the Fund Fund Fund. At the beginning, Jeremy was able to lend 1 billion 600 million portfolio. There are now over 256 million that continue to revolve. That's why it's so important, because this plan I don't believe will happen to us twice. One option is to give it to each other, to master it, as they say, and not have an economic effect more than once. The other option is to invest it, at least a small part of it, in instruments that can finance innovative companies, and this instrument will continue to finance in the coming years, when such plans will no longer be able to see this way. So, please, before we speak in common touches between grenades and instruments, let's look at the statistics of Jérémérés, let's look at what are the most successful companies in the world how they are funded and how they have started to be funded. And to decide whether we want a change in the Bulgarian economy - a really high added value economy or a light step of modernization that will be absorbed by the few people. By the way, let's just say these grants won't go to more than 1.2% of the companies, of these 400,000 companies. So if you show political leadership, we need to change the things that have happened so far. The Ministry of Economy has open doors for each of you, each of the political parties...................................................................................... Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u231	Thank you, Minister Petkov. First question from GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u232	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Just one amendment to Mr. Petkov. The bank's assets are four billion, not two billion, just to fix you. And operating is also profit-making. You're a principal, you'll have a chance to answer. Mr. Petkov, I would like to ask you what is your strategy for development of the Bulgarian Development Bank, including in terms of the management of its assets and, in particular, in the first place, we expect from you your opinion whether you are the beneficiary of the bank or the use of it as an instrument for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises in Bulgaria? And since you were talking a little bit earlier about nurobajanism, I'd like to ask you in a playful tone. Thank you. [[Noise, laughter, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u233	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Minister Petkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u234	Yes, thank you for the question. I'm gonna play along, too. Maybe there's some connection to Ivy Leaguen universities, but, unfortunately, there's no Harvard. One of the officers graduated from M.I.T. and then graduated from Wharton and then worked at M.K. Yeah, now, M.I.T.'s true, it's close, it's in Boston, it's at a Harvard stop, but it has nothing to do with us, we never graduated together, we didn't even know each other until this fight started to clear the bank. But let me get back to your serious question. I really don't believe that this bank needs to be privatized right now, because the most dangerous thing for me would be at the moment when we have large loans with unclear collateral, with a still vague hole, is still not managed in the right way, to put this bank to privatize for some small amount. And the most dangerous thing for me would be to cover what happened before with these loans, because the new owner is a private and he shouldn't serve any public interests. Do we need another bank in the market? I don't think so. Because at the moment the banking sector is quite well-functioning, liquidity is huge, we do not suffer from a lack of financial resources. Even as far as I know, at the moment about 7 billion is excessive liquidity of the banks and they would give it right away. So making another bank on the market seems bad to me, sweeping the story before we check it out doesn't feel good either. If we make this bank really work for small and medium-sized enterprises, as we have currently limited it to 5 million loans, I would even call on us to consider changing the BBI Act so that we give a much clearer strategy for this bank and no one, regardless of when and how as managing this bank, to be able to afford the involuntaryities that we have seen in the past five years. The other thing I believe and what I know is that Bulgaria has many start-ups. And if we talk that part of the money should be with equity funding, then another part of their money could be through the Development Bank. We just have to have very clear supervision of this bank. You, as MPs, should ask about these questions often, to change the BBI law so that no one can ever afford to give that way the money. And for its very recovery, I want, after we do the entire investigation, I think it should be divided into a problematic portfolio that will be separated as management, and a new portfolio that will finance small and start-ups so that one does not affect the other and we have a clear concept of what is happening. What is with the troubled portfolio, we should try to reduce it slightly in a way that the taxpayer does not lose some of his money. The credit portfolio itself is 2 billion and 100, and all of the Bank's assets are 3.8 billion, but really when I talk, I talk about the credit portfolio because they are the money that is given to borrowers. So this bank makes sense, I've seen how it works around the world, but the question is to do it, run it in a transparent way, so that you as MPs can demand the results of this bank what it has done at a very frequent period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u235	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Do you have a question from BSP to the Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the two months of your term of office, Mr. Minister, you talked a lot about the Bulgarian Development Bank. The fact is that it is 100% government property. And as the principal of the bank, I am convinced that you can reveal all the facts and circumstances surrounding the money distributed by the bank. My question to you is simple and clear when you will present the full information about the bank's assets and their management in recent years, including a complete list of BBI assets, with all borrowers and the amounts they have received, the conditions under which the loans were granted, the collateral that guaranteed these loans, and, of course, the risk to their collection. I believe that you have no reason not to publish this information. I would even add that in Bulgaria representatives have all international audit companies from the Grand Four, which you could definitely assign a professional and transparent review of the Bank's assets. I am convinced that this is how we will get an independent objective view of what conditions the taxpayers' money was given, were these conditions the same for everyone, were loans adequately secured, is there any risk at all to government money? And, frankly, I think that by taking out only two or three examples, as you have done now, today, for irrational lending, you somehow get the impression that you have no intention of presenting to the public the whole truth about the Bank's activities in recent years. In that sense, I hope you won't stop there. And if you really want Bulgarian taxpayers to know how to spend their money, please publish the information. That's the way it is, and I think you owe it to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Danchev. Minister Petkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u238	Yeah, thanks for the question. Believe me, I would very much like to do exactly what you say, but I had a meeting with BNB and it was very clear that there is a law on banking secrecy. And now the question is: what damage would we do to the companies themselves if we violated the Banking Secret Act? Unfortunately, the law is the law. I would very much like to tell you them one by one, as you know, in the first week I published the top 10, but even there I could form them in groups, and I couldn't give separate balances because, believe me, some of these companies would gladly go to trial against this type of action. The last thing I want is to lose another taxpayer's money because of that. But let me tell you some more general figures. Besides that the average portfolio of these top 20s, which is 90% of the capital, I can talk about the 10%, but they are not interesting, 90% of the capital in the top 20s, most are at 2% interest rate, with the average interest rate being 2,94. The other interesting thing is that most of the 20s, as I said, are balloon payments that are over 10 years old. So these total numbers I can tell them. The top 10 companies I published. I also have good news about part of this portfolio starting to get better in itself because we announced the top 10, but this is a risk that needs to be very carefully refined. Yeah, we had one of the companies that paid off 40 million of the big credit, which is very good news, we have another request from a second firm that would pay off about 35 million. So they don't pay off their entire portfolio, but we start working with them and collecting. And if we give them a serious scandal right now, there's a danger that this will not happen. But these three separate cases I've given today, even four, they're specific companies with the particular way they've been given. I'm not trying to hide anything, I just have to be within the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u239	Thank you, Minister Petkov. "Democratic Bulgaria." First question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u240	Dear Minister, we have been revealing the schemes at the Development Bank for years, so we believe that fixing the Ministry of Economy's activities on this bank is an extremely correct step. My questions, since I respect the Banking Secret Act, my questions will be specified on the 20 largest borrowers. The first one is: what is the state of the collateral of these 20 large loans? The second question is: are large provisions expected for these 20 credits for 2020, if the audited report is already ready, and for 2021, respectively, what would be the losses for the Bank of these provisions? By my reckoning, maybe 400, 500 million. lv. even for the year concerned. The third question is whether provisions on investment in shares of First Investment Bank are expected, as there the investment was 5 BGN. On the stock market, we know that shares are traded at BGN 1.70. Right now. Those are the questions. The last question is, what exactly is the proportion of these 20 large credits actually, is it 15 of the 20s, 12 of the 20s or something like that? And a question from the colleague from Varna "Stella Nikolova." There is, as far as I know, a loan-free program up to £50,000. There, as far as I know, they're not very popular due to credit conditions. Would you comment on whether it is possible to change the conditions so that these loans become more attractive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u241	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Although there are a few questions in one question, let's take it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u242	Thanks for asking. What I've been told is that two thirds of these 20 have this bubble structure. So this is the answer to this question. We are currently very carefully assessing the assets that we really have, because the good news is that these loans are currently being paid interest, so they are not loans that are not being serviced. The bad news is, as I said, within ten years, we have to wait to actually know if we're getting them back. And that's why by bank standards, as you said, there's been an increase in expected losses. And what the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board have told me today is that the expected loss for 2021 is about 250 million. Of course, the auditors' report is also waiting, but this is what they expect to promote. In connection with the investment of the Bulgarian Development Bank in First Investment Bank. As we all know, nearly 140 million of the Bank's funds are invested there. The estimate of that 140 million is quite... There's an argument here about how to do it. On the one hand, the shares are really 1.7 now, and the bank bought them at BGN 5. It's a fact. Since it is very low the liquidity of the trading of FIB shares, it is dangerous to take it exactly one to one as a market value, so at the moment it must be assessed how to assess these shares of FIB, precisely in order not to make a greater provision than it should be. But I, my personal belief, is that there is a very big difference between the market and what the state has bought, the price at which it bought these shares. My hope is to succeed... Two things I would love to see if the next Minister of Economy continues with our strategy, I think it is nice and it is important that the Bulgarian Development Bank has a member of the Board of Directors at FIB, because we represent over 18% of the Bank's ownership with this investment and I think it is important that we can manage it in the most reasonable way as any good owner. In this next step, I would be happy if FIB's market shares went above or equal to BGN 5 And at the moment that happens, we can get out as fast as we can. Because the role of the Bulgarian Development Bank is not, in my opinion, to hold such an investment. That's on the second question. Yeah, 250 million isn't a little bit of money. Imagine how small and medium-sized enterprises we would finance with 250 million instead of putting them into provisions of the existing credit portfolio.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. First question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, indeed the Development Bank is a very important tool which in crisis periods has proved that it can be used to help companies that would otherwise be hampered. Somehow in recent months, which is true and correct, talked a lot about the Bank, but created a certain impression of a small chaoticity in terms of the actions to change the management of the Bank. I am interested whether and when was the fact that the State is now sole owner of the Bank's capital? Did you give up entirely the General Assembly instrument, which is probably not mandatory with a sole owner of the capital, but it is still an institution of the Bank. We have a number of examples where other banks with sole owners of capital, including foreign ones, hold general meetings, which is an instrument of transparency to announce in advance what actions you want to take. In addition, in terms of the loss you mentioned, these are really frightening numbers. Can you give us some details on what caused this loss? What part of them is operational? Just to see if this is due, let's say that the bank should have been very actively involved in the instruments regarding the crisis, that is, really understand a little more about the nature of these losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Chobanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u246	Thanks for asking. In fact, it was very interesting in the early days. When I entered as Minister of Economy, I found the following interesting facts: a year before that, the other shareholder of the Bank had asked the Ministry of Economy to receive as a donation these few shares, which represented 00.0001%, and the state was 99,9996, if I am not mistaken, and a year ago, they wanted to give them away, they just didn't want to have anything to do with the Bank because it was not their business. But the Ministry of Economy had never accepted this gift. Why? Looking at the Bank's Statute with these few shares owned by a private bank, it was evident that, as you said, the General Assembly could be convened by any of the shareholders, but within three months the Governing Council could schedule the General Assembly. Two weeks to three months, but at the request of the bank's governors at this time. And in fact, if the state hadn't received this gift, we just said, well, we'll take those shares if you want to give them to us, we'd be happy to take them. There was a great danger that the first General Assembly would have happened perhaps two or three weeks from today. And the real logic for me was to keep these shares and not accept this gift for one single purpose when a government like ours came, so I imagine there is nothing he can do about changing the board's ruling members. And what I was very happy about was that we were able in the first days of the management of the Ministry of Economy by me to accept these shares, that this period of three months would disappear and that we could immediately enter into the shift of the people who, in my opinion, caused this damage. So it was a fundamental first step for the State to become fully in control of the Bank in order to avoid these jumps laid down in the Statute at this time. You know, I've talked a lot about the media, we've gone through all kinds of steps to change the board, but in the end it was understood that, in fact, when a person really wants to do something and when society is with him, no matter what powers and wishes there are from people who have done damage so far, couldn't resist a few days before the elections, as you all know, we were able to replace Oversight with people who, as I just shared, were with a very high professional CV and replaced people who were in the Privatization Agency with people who worked at MKINZI, who graduated MIT, were in the banking sector for the last 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u247	Thank you, Minister Petkov. For the first question from... [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u248	Excuse me, may I finish?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u249	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u250	For the loss of 250 million actually operational bank is positive, you are right, in the sense that, as I said, these loans are being serviced, so interest is coming in, yes, but really the total loss will be based on the provisions for this year and these provisions, by the way, we are trying to make them the most conservatively possible. I mean, we want the most honest, the most true, so that it represents the real situation for the risk that is currently in the credit portfolio.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u251	Most conservative.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u252	Well, no, most conservatively, I meant the most accurate, the closest to bank standards and the most honest, which we can and which we know. As you know, there are two auditors of the bank, so these auditors have not been replaced, they will not change, we will just want them to do their job as correctly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u253	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Here you go. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u254	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I think we have come to the general opinion that the bank must return to its original design and it must be an incubator for good ideas and practices, as well as for building the future economic infrastructure, I am talking about the green economy and the circular, of course. That's why you answered a lot of the questions. I'll take you back a little retrospect. I return to you what you received when entering your post, and there are two questions: do you think the large exposures are in the bank's credit portfolio because we do not have a clear diversification in them? And the second question, you can also take it as a complement that the principle on which we index interest rates on these exposures in conditions of sustainable and rising inflation, unfortunately. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u255	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u256	Thanks for asking. Yeah, it's definitely a risk. There's no two opinions about me. At the moment, what I said about 250 million actually represents an accurate assessment of this risk that happened, and with the best standards to evaluate it for about minus 250 million. The interest on loans is interesting that they, on the one hand, look almost market. In other words, 2% is not too low an interest rate for today's market conditions, but which worries us that it is not related to collateral. In other words, not at interest rate levels, but at risk levels related to this interest rate is the huge problem. And the other thing that we noticed that some of these loans were refinanced loans in other banks and the interest rate fell on all these refinancings. In other words, commercial banks, which have assessed their risk in the most market way, were willing to give any funds to these companies at higher interest rates, so from this point of view this is the case. Are the interest rates fixed or floating? They are floating on the basis of EURIBOR, standard practice. EURIBOR plus a margin that will vary with the market, so at least we do not have such a fixed interest problem. [[Heckling]] Yes, there is no way there will be, yes, so we have no problem there, and an inflation should affect this, as it does in market interest rates, so it will affect credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u257	Thank you. Do you have a second question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u258	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, my second question is related again to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, but this time broken through the Ministry of Economy. I would like to ask you about your stakes and yesterday presented to the public 1.2 billion. lv. Does financial instruments have an analysis of the economic effect of applying these financial instruments and clarity for specific economic models responsible for the vision of the effects of the applied tickets on the economy of Bulgaria? Please indicate specific financial indicators for the macroeconomic effect and the way in which you planned risk management for each of the projects?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u259	Mr. Karimansky, is the question targeted at the bank?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u260	Absolutely purposeful.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u261	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u262	Yeah, because maybe the bank can help with all those things we're talking about on the Plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u263	Yeah, in that context, yeah. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u264	The projects that you have included in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan by the Ministry of Economy, are they based on cost analysis? Because I may have missed it myself, but I didn't see that analysis. Has the Ministry of Economy started doing cluster analysis of existing resources, and if so, why is this process not traceable and transparent to society? What criteria and by whom have these criteria been drawn up and will meet the individual private and state co-financing programmes, as you have indicated in the individual Fund 1, Fund 2 and Fund 3? Why have these criteria not been publicly discussed before being disclosed by you? And I ask for the results of all interested parties, if they are discussed? Because I don't know, maybe they were discussed. How will the bailout partners be identified? Where are the criteria published for them to determine these partners? Again, why is there no broad discussion about the choice of these partners? Are there contracts and with whom so far? In Fund 3 there is a Grant Scheme for measures in the field of circular economy at enterprise level. How, since the Ministry of Economy has not proposed in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan a strategic transformation plan into a circular economy based on regeneration and redistribution, there are no key performance indicators?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u265	You're running out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u266	I'm coming. Will the relevant projects be implemented and what kind of impact assessment will they have on the economy? It is good to clarify your understanding of reforms for a circular economy so that we can speak in one language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u267	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u268	Thanks for the good questions. A basic principle of spending government money should be that they should stimulate private investment and, in fact, the percentage of private investment to spent government money, being European, is very important. When we came in and looked at the existing tickets, I found two tickets - 900 million 100% grant and 400 million for four industrial zones shown, as in a planned economy - will be there, there and there. Who decides how we thought these four were, how did we decide that 900 million would be given as a grant, and what would be this multiplier effect between these grants and the real total investments that they should be stimulating? Because the most wrong thing would be for me to just make money and disappear into the sands. By the way, let's make it clear to all of these 900 million clean grants, we reformed it not everything into tools, in not deluding yourself: 671 million left Grants, 377 million are shares and 268 are guarantee instruments. In other words, the majority remained grant. If you ask me, I would love to raise the share instrument even more, because for me Bulgaria's future changes through equity instruments when we invest in start-up innovative companies, but this is my vision. Why did we stop at 671 million grenades anyway? Because we had a lot of public discussions, including last night until nine o'clock a member of your party was at the Ministry of Economy and we went through a big debate. I think it has become clear to them and they were pleased at the end of the day that you can also discuss this internally. But the question is: JEREMIE has a multiplying effect of 4.5 times. So the funds that the state will give increase as a final investment by 4.5 times. This is statistics of existing, with the grant scheme, even if it is 50% co-financed, will double at most by two. The other thing that is very important: we all know what is the biggest problem of all these European funds is the risk of corruption. If we don't talk about this, it's like we're not talking about the elephant in the room. A great deal of the money has so far been going to consultants and corruption, I think. And now, if we say, with a magic wand, we're going to do a magic trick, and this corruption is going to disappear, leaving the same grant instruments, that's exactly the definition of insanity to do the same thing and expect a different result. That is why it has been a very important and European partner in the distribution of these grants and a European partner in the distribution of these instruments. When you have the European Investment Bank... [[IHN lines]] Yes, I'm telling you because they're connected exactly, please! The European Investment Bank as a partner of these instruments limits the risk of corruption. This means that 30% of the money, which would otherwise be lost between consultants and corruption, is now no longer possible. Therefore, I think that all of you will feel great pressure from your supporting maybe businesses to want these grants. However, unfortunately, in my opinion, as has been done at the moment, there is almost zero risk of corruption for the instruments I am talking about, and the European Investment Bank is a partner that I think is undeniable. It's not some private company that has the capacity and reputation to do it the best way. So from this point of view, this ticket was made in a way, on the one hand, to multiply the most funds, the European funds to become the largest portfolio of investments by combining the portfolio, and I say that the portfolio there is 4.5, instead of two at most, and by removing the corruption, this multiplier will fall and, on the other hand... But unfortunately, why did we leave 671 million, so I don't believe in these grants, just because of public discussions. I've had so many meetings with the business, with the Trilateral Council, with the unions, with all interested, and finally we managed to get to some balance where there will be money for innovative companies, and we will have a high multiplier of shares, and 671 million will go in the form of grants instead of 900. So your expert yesterday was very constructive and I think he can tell you in detail because we spent really up to 9:00 a.m. to discuss this topic. This is for this part. [[IHN lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u269	Please don't engage in dialogue with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u270	For the second part I wanted to say, which is very important...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u271	Mr. Danailov, don't disturb the Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u272	...for the second ticket. That's how we reorganized the four industrial zones to be market-oriented. I had a chance to work for a six-billion-dollar company. My job was to base factories all over the world and decide where to invest them. And just to tell you how these decisions were made. On the one hand, we were looking at where our clients are. This is the number one solution, on the other hand, where our suppliers are, from a third country, what our labour costs are, from the fourth country, all other costs..... political risks, corruption and so on. There is no one in the Ministry of Economy, including me, who understands more where to invest their factory than the companies themselves. In fact, we made this ticket for industrial zones work on two principles. On the one hand, the European Investment Fund is once again a guarantee that there will be no corruption, on the other hand, to allow these industrial zones to happen where businesses themselves can appreciate that it is best for them. And in relation to regional policy, in fact, if we have municipalities that can promise zero corruption, and those municipalities that are affected, we all know about the Northwest, including Vidin at the moment there is the most labour, in fact this market way, as well as Stara Zagora will come up with a major problem with the closure in the future of our coal plants, thus businesses will be able to make industrial parks where they know it is best, where there is the most labour. Because Bulgaria is small and we are not one continent, in fact the most important thing is that we will be able to attract the most and most effective businesses. For clusters, which was also set, I very much believe in cluster strategy. But it doesn't work that way. Somebody says, "We're gonna make clusters." It happens when you catch an investor and tell him: let's now attract your customers or your suppliers a vertical cluster based on market efforts and not someone in the Ministry of Economy pointing fingers. The good thing is that we catch one and the good thing is that we already have a new one in Bulgaria. I was there for them. They will be Europe's largest bicycle manufacturer this year. Well, what is the chance to attract Shimano to Maxcom by telling them: come to Bulgaria not because the Ministry of Economy thinks that you should come either because of our low taxes or because we are a very beautiful state. Come to Bulgaria because you will be able to sell to the largest producer of bikes your goods and will ensure that it will not change its supplier and you will be the most competitive supplier. That's how they build clusters. They're not built through someone in the Ministry of Economy to point fingers. Believe me, I've been in this role and I've worked it, and that's how the market works. So thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u273	Thank you, Minister Petkov. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u274	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I'm just gonna put in a marker. It was funny to me when we talked about clusters and I remembered that because we were old people, during communism, the whole economy was built on clusters, only then we didn't know that they were called clusters and they were called "business associations." I say this not because I am nostalgic for communism, but because I think how safe we will talk about it further on this issue, the economy of this country has been destroyed during the transition and how much we will now have to face it with joint efforts. My question, Mr. Petkov, is of a more conceptual nature, but I hope you will have no problem answering me. It became clear that in any case most of the loan portfolio of the Bulgarian Development Bank has been targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises and in the discussion in recent weeks, in which you are very actively involved, it is clear that it is not preferred for the BBI to credit large enterprises. At the same time, however, economic theory and practice show that small and medium-sized enterprises can function successfully and develop precisely as suppliers of large enterprises, i.e. when they are included in a larger chain of creation of added value, unless they work in the field of local market services. Figuratively speaking, small and medium-sized enterprises included in production are always subcontractors, and in order to have small and medium-sized enterprises there must be large enterprises. To finance small, newly created high-risk companies with government money without them being pre-bound in large supply chains, it seems to me at least a high-risk investment, and I cannot answer for myself the question of whether I want, I would like, I would agree our money, or say, the money of the Bulgarian Development Bank to be invested in precisely such high-risk projects. It's a little too much fanci for me, you know? It's about our money, after all. Each large country supports its large enterprises because they are the flagships of the economy concerned and draw small and medium-sized enterprises in a tow truck. I am sure that in your life as Minister you have felt that the big countries protect their big businesses. Ergo, Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises can be sustainable if they are suppliers of large enterprises that can, of course, belong to foreign investors or Bulgarian large enterprises. In order for the Bulgarian economy to be sustainable as a whole, it is good to have Bulgarian large enterprises to complete the chain of production of added value here. Do you therefore, and that is my question, that the Bulgarian State should support large enterprises, not through the Bulgarian Development Bank, with other possible means, what is your view on the issue? And not just to support them, but to encourage the creation of large enterprises. In which areas in which Bulgaria has competitive advantages, in your opinion, should the creation of such large enterprises be stimulated? By what methods and means could they be supported by the state, and, of course, we do not forget certain regulatory conditions to which they will be subjected or must be subjected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u275	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Here you are, Minister Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u276	Thank you for that question. Actually, I just wanted to say. When I speak, I use the word "clusters" I don't really mean formal alliances. I mean real market clusters of entities that have happened in a market way. Unlike the definition of clusters that we have seen in some of the European programmes where some companies make some kind of union, in fact, here the idea is that people are competing or in companies that can be their suppliers or customers are in one place because they have some common profits from being together. In other words, I do not believe at all in the planned economy of creation of alliances. Just to say that I believe in the natural way of attracting and clustering businesses, creating a common infrastructure, especially in human capital. For example, to have a joint laboratory or a joint job at a university. Big businesses are terribly important. You're absolutely right. In no way do I put low value on big businesses. They are important for the GDP of Bulgaria and are important for the GDP of each economy. I just think these big businesses have a huge chance and an opportunity to be financed by commercial banks. Why? Because we currently have over 109 billion deposits, 21.8 billion liquidity to banks and at least 7 billion excess liquidity. So if you're a big enterprise that has a successful business, you have no problem lending yourself. How would we help them? I don't think big businesses should be helped. During the cavity, when a problem is created, then it is 60/40. This type of measures are not bad. In fact, the previous government, which did so, 60/40 in this case worked, yes, but these are out-of-market problems that need to be dealt with with outside-market measures. But market problems should not be solved, in my opinion, by pouring out money, and if we want to develop our large businesses, we must invest in capacity and connectivity between them and our education system. In reality, they must be competitive on the basis of knowledge. So I, if I would finance large enterprises, whether they are Bulgarian or foreign, would focus on creating a common infrastructure with scientific and educational organisations. In order not to sound like general fairy tales, for example, a company that came to us BOSCH, who wants to make a potential new big investment in Bulgaria, they said: what will you give us to enter? We said: Your competitive advantage is not in connection with any money.. whether we will give 20 million, 10 million of the Bulgarian budget to you to stimulate you will not contribute to competitiveness. Let's focus on common programs, for example for software and design, because they make the software of many electric cars. Let's make a special department, for example at the Technical University, together, and the state would finance such a department, but not be exclusive to Bosch. It's for everyone who's in this area. This type of interconnections and this type of support for me are much better than giving grants to large enterprises. There are many examples around the world. I don't want to sound like a lecture here, but for example, France is a very good example. When she's got a big company lined up and she says, "We're gonna give a lot of money to become a leader." Even the company Thompson, I'll say it, it produced fax machines. And Japan said: we will make a cluster of competing companies, but we will only give them money for common knowledge and technology in technical universities to serve the competitive environment of these companies. As you can remember, when big companies receive grants, their managers start becoming lobbyists because their competitive advantage is who you know in government and how many grants you can take. But when you put money into knowledge and real competition, they start to become competitive in the world market. This is the answer to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u277	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u278	Dear President, honourable Colleague, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to express my satisfaction that the decision of both the office and most of our colleagues in Parliament is not to privatize the Bulgarian Development Bank, as this bank was proposed by our team and I personally introduced the Draft Law for the Promotional Bank, which is now called the Development Bank. Since then, colleague, we have been explaining the experience of Germany, Austria, Canada. There was a lot of resistance, but the bank did. So to deprive ourselves of the Development Bank, a state, whatever the most developed countries do not deprive themselves, would be, to put it mildly, a foolish decision. In this regard, my question is: after you have entered the Bank's documentation, have you established any examples where the Development Bank has fulfilled its name? Can we say from the examples we give to other countries that, in the previous management, the Development Bank has developed something, some example of new technologies, some examples of new products? Or what we have established and from this tribune for four years we ask questions about the Bank for Development.. You have seen the protocols, to ask: how so 10 credits now, you specify exactly when you have access are given to 10 recipients? 90% of the credit bank's potential. Is it the development of the Bulgarian economy to give these funds for waste collection? Is reprivatization giving money a private company to buy another private company also suggesting some development? Is lending to the Bank, which collects bad loans, so-called bats, a development of Bulgaria, or is this a scheme where banks or banks that are in poor condition, with bad credit portfolio, use public resources to solve bad portfolios? Did you give the example that the funds from the Development Bank were used to enable a private bank to meet the European Central Bank's capital adequacy requirement? Because here you gave examples of the price. From this tribune we carried it at the time of the purchase 5 BGN. was the purchase, given that then the best price was about 2 BGN, now it went down to 1.7, as from this tribune we predicted. So here the loss will really be more than 50% at the expense of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian economy. And something that, when you talk to the previous leaders, and they will be spoken to by other institutions and I am ready to go and confirm that at a meeting of the Economic Commission in the Bulgarian Parliament, because it had been heard about such a deal for buying shares of a private bank, I explicitly said to them: "I warn you! "The expression was: "Don't you dare the new directors to make this deal! " And guess what happened. They dared. After three or four days they made the deal, although in the Parliament in the Economic Commission we warned them that such a deal is contrary to the Bank's statutes. So the question arises: have you found something to please us? Has this bank developed anything during this period? Secondly, this question relates to the first one. You don't mention anything about the caretaker government for the BNB. The question is: Did you raise the question because we will raise it, what is the Supervision of BNB doing again? What is this concentration of risk in 90% of the loans of 10 banks?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u279	Thank you, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u280	I'm graduating. Colleague, that's a few times the concentration at KTB. The tragedy with the KTB, we were moving to parliament, to the Presidency. Those braves then passed the CTB by 90%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u281	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u282	Unfortunately, I can't set a good example. Maybe there is. They have more than 116 credits, the other ones who are smaller in those 10%. I'll analyze them, too. We focused on 90% of the portfolio. The other thing I had in a personal interview with Oversight and the previous Oversight. It really impressed me how neither the Ministry of Economy cared exactly how the funds were given and what positive results there should be, neither Oversight nor the governors. I had signals, but only lips, so I can't prove it where corruption existed, they told me. In other words, if you don't give us any funds, you can't participate in lending. This seems, unfortunately, alarmingly and logically to the outcome that has occurred. I don't know if it's a fact. I can't guarantee that. They didn't give me any written signal. The other things that impressed us. Even the new Board of Directors told us: we come to work on Monday and some very shiny cars enter the parking lot. Turns out Mr. Mavrodiev had a huge number of advisors who were still at the Bank. The other thing that surprised us, aside from the huge salaries that were paid despite those results that I shared last year. Some of them, by the way, I have to be honest, are on the basis of the guarantee program, so that has to be said. Kovid the guarantee programme may have been during the Kovid, although it is not an innovative tool and has not done anything about competitiveness, perhaps there was also a positive effect when the funds So some of these losses for last year were there, but nevertheless 468 thousand. lv. The annual salary of one of the governors was impressive. A bonus month of 60,000. lv. salary and a car of great value. He's still in the BBI parking lot. There's been such an unprincipled spending of money as if these funds were a gift. [[Heckling]] Yeah, 468 grand. The interesting thing was that when I said that 60 thousand had reached the monthly salary of a manager, I was corrected at BNB, that there were months where only 33 thousand had been, so this was also interesting. [[Noise and lines.]] Really, so far, I haven't seen any very positive effect or any company say, "Hey, at least that's where they gave the money. " - I didn't. Maybe there is. We didn't see it. We focused on the danger of a potential big hole of risk in these 20 loans. We're still working. And I certainly hope that the next time we talk, if we speak from this tribune, we can share similar examples. Part of the idea of future lending is not only how effective they are as a return, but how these loans have helped not only the company but the entire business environment around it. In other words, what is called impact investing, there, when there is more added value than the added value of the company itself, it will be part of the evaluation of how well the current managers have done their work. That was to your question, by the way. You said to me: Would you be willing to pay for risk, small businesses or start-up companies? "This is the instrument of the state if we wanted to change not only 1.5% of companies with higher productivity than the average European one. This is part of the instrument how we should create a new economy. My dream would be when we talk about innovation, innovations are not some chimera, but real Bulgarian companies producing in Bulgaria to produce high added value that has export potential. In fact, we should make a completely different ecosystem. Let's make the Ministry of Innovation an economy and innovation. For example, the Innovation Agency, which is currently, not to stand alone under the Council of Ministers, but to become part of the Ministry of Economy and, as the big and successful countries do, to make a board of the best Bulgarian specialists in innovation. I'm including professors like Dr. Fichorova from Harvard, like Julian Mihov from Singapore. Let's make an Innovation Board that stands between the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Economy, and they navigate in what direction to invest the money, and the BBI is just one of the tools for this policy. The other parts of the instruments shall be the Innovation Agency, the Investment Agency. All of this working together and regardless of who the Minister of Economy and Education is, this board should give a long-term strategy to Bulgaria so that we can become a small, open but highly innovative country. We can do it! Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u283	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u284	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will take occasion so conveniently, from the question of Professor Gechev and from your answers to focus more on the future. Professor Gechev asked: was there any development? We don't find much. In addition, when a person sees 2 billion and 100 million credit portfolios, of which 1.8 concentrated in some 20 places, where it is clear that there is no development, there are 300 million left for an economy with a gross output of 300 billion. lv. We can't expect much development. But I'm going to step on some of your answers, which included some perspective on the future. My main question is: what thinking goes on the strategic future of the Development Bank, as content, if you can give us? Of course, and do you have any vision for the format of this thinking? Not only concentrated in executive power, but perhaps, if you could, to engage a little in Parliament's ideas. A few questions. One is: for example, we put a ceiling of 5 million. BGN, only for some of the activities of the Bank, for example support for infrastructure, which will use the small and medium business and clustering. Sometimes we have to have a relationship with larger companies and, accordingly, for larger loans. Another sensitive subject, some sensitive proceedings, is where the BBI has a special role to play. There is also a ceiling of 5 million does not seem adequate. That's where the subpoena goes. The other sub-question you affected him about wages a little. He's going outside the narrow frames of the B.B.I. But here a little and as Minister of Economy, a person in the administration, can we sort out payments in Bulgaria in the public sector somehow more precisely because we seem to have serious imbalances at the moment? And, I apologize, this is not a separate issue, just to remind you from our group there was one question about the 50 thousand interest-free loans. If you can offend him, because in your response, you didn't affect him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u285	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u286	Yeah, thanks for the question. You said very well what percentage is the Bulgarian Development Bank of Bulgaria. In fact, I do not believe that its role is to build large infrastructure sites. I think we have a lot of other tools to do this through. My model, which I see is working very successfully, is, as I said, the Canadian Development Bank is not building infrastructure sites. This is a small enough resource, but tangible enough to focus on entrepreneurship, innovation, small and medium-sized businesses. And for me, this 5 million for the Bulgarian composition of companies is absolutely adequate for those companies that cannot be served by commercial banks that are full of liquidity. In connection with the arms business, I assume that's what you meant. The arms business I met with all the members of the arms business. They told us that the only thing we would like to do is to be able to operate through your bank because many commercial banks have limits to work with this industry. I understand that. Really many of the companies, commercial banks, if you're dealing with guns, say: "We can't have you as a customer. The good news there, if you can say that, right, it's a bit of a strange industry, is that they have a very high liquidity of the companies themselves, they're not looking for loans. The only thing they're looking for is to have an operating bank. We put them all together, and that's what they told me, just, let us work through the BBI, we don't want any credit. So from this point of view, yes, this function should remain on the BBI. This is a business that is Bulgarian. In connection with interest-free loans. Yes, they were given to a huge number of individuals and legal entities. There has been criticism that some of these funds have been used to pay for their fast loans, but I think it was at this very moment when the liquidity and the speed of the money had decreased very much, as I said, those instruments were adequate for me. For the future part of our Recovery Program, which was also mentioned, is still based on tools. Let me tell you two things. First of all, we didn't refinance loans at all. These are new loans through this recovery programme. And the second is that yesterday's banks are calling us and saying, "Please give us the second tranche, we used that money, we've run out of money." As well as many of the restaurants, we have customers who have told us: "We have finally been able to finance ourselves. " And, unfortunately, if we expect a fourth wave this winter, it would be appropriate to still be able to use some of the bank's liquidity for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u287	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Come in, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u288	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, you and I have had the last two months of exchange of media lines to say it softer because the tone is good in the room. I'll express my attitude later on on on what you've put out. I just want to say in addition to what Professor Gechev said that I had the honour of being President of the Budget Committee when we found the bank after they had done it in the Law. Mr. Kostov and I found this bank and we knew exactly what it was supposed to do, work. Then, in the Triple Coalition, where I had the honour of being chairman of the Economic Commission, we changed the bank from an Encouraging BBI with this recording in the Statute to credit small enterprises. I say this because the position of our parliamentary group has been unchanged ever since. But my question is to talk about what we talked about, because from this tribune is the place to say, so let's ask the question we exchanged lines about. Did he or did he have our former colleague from DPS parliamentary group Delyan Slavchev Peevski ever credit at the BBI as a natural person or members of his family, or as the owner, majority of a legal person, or a legal person in whose governing bodies he was involved? That's my specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u289	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u290	Yeah, thanks for the question. The direct answer is that as an individual, he didn't have one. Fact. Here the point is that the risk of the bank, as I said, did not seek genuine economic connectivity. Fact. They just weren't looking for any. They looked at the Trade Register if there was no obvious connection, there was no further comment, it was accepted as unrelated companies. The other fact is that it was not a majority owner in any of these companies, but Blagoevgrad BT's company was a minority owner, it was Bulgartabac, and you shared it in one of your media appearances. There are several companies that we are currently examining whether there is any economic connection, and we are not examining it on the basis of just saying that Mr. Peevski was there, and as we know, now Some of the companies that we study carefully is including "Marketing Investment" JSC, I will share them, although I do not want to speak with direct names, as I said, Bulgartabac. We don't know what's going on and we're watching closely for the International Investments, but I don't want to get any speculation into it. I just want to say that right now I have ordered a careful investigation of the true economic relationships. Because for some of the other companies, for example, Roadway Construction, we saw that yes, there is no Mr. Gaitansky in any way, neither physically took money from the bank, nor legally, just his lawyer did. So one real job of the bank's risk department is not to look at the Trade Register, which everyone can do, but to explore the real economic relationships. And right now I think it's starting to work. So that's the most honest answer I can tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u291	Thank you. And you're gonna stand up for yourself? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u292	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, it has been a very fruitful hearing because there have been questions that concern much of the public. But my question will be more devoted to a particular industry, this is the tourism industry. At the end of this hearing, I kind of want to be a little more pragmatic, because from the whole discussion about policies, instruments, the past back, millions of people don't get so simple and clear to people when they talk about how they can go and lend themselves. I say that I dedicate this question to the tourism industry because we know that in time, there was a small discussion about how there is a lack of working funds, how many companies suffer from re-negotiation of their loans, from consultations, which for them are foreign things. You, as Minister, will be of help to everyone if you come out and explain to us a small company, a small restaurant, a hotel manager how would you benefit from these public funds? The other thing I will take advantage of, because you are still a Minister of Economy: what is your personal opinion about the threshold of 50,000 to 200,000, because this is one of our policies that we want to carry out by the Group of Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u293	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u294	The tourism industry is very important for Bulgaria, in fact it is an export industry. Although the service is happening in Bulgaria, it is actually export. So the tourism industry is fundamental to me and we need to think about how to raise its added value, as for each of the other industries. Sometimes the answer to the question is not so direct. Since yesterday, I am very happy to say that the fact is that we have the three beaches for natural tourism So with that, I just wanted to brag about yesterday's victory after ten years of hard work on this issue. The other thing. The recovery plan we made turned out that many of the money loans go to the tourism industry and I will tell you why. On this I have actually direct communication literally yesterday and that day with some of the commercial banks. How does credit work right now? We have some people who want to sell credit, these are the people at the front of the bank, and there's the risk that says "no." In fact, what was going on in the tourist industry right now? People with a hotel or a restaurant go to the bank, the bank says: "Yeah, yeah, especially if you're in the North Black Sea coast - this season is not so strong, we're afraid to lend you money. But our recovery program opens up a third room in the bank, and that's when the risk says "no" and the credit sellers say "yes" goes to this room, which is called "refund," and it's called "okay," would we take a risk that is 80% guaranteed? And it turns out that quite a large part of the tourist industry falls into this room. Why? Because the banks financed them and have a long history with them. They like them as business, they're just not willing to take all the risk. That's why the Recovery Plan actually focuses on exactly the kind of customers that are promisingly good, long-term have a history with the bank, but the bank was afraid to give them the money. What I heard yesterday is that money went in there, and I'm very happy because it's direct support. Yes, there are no funds directly given as grants, although 60/40 continued this is also important, but actually some of these funds went right there. The other thing that is very important is that the tourism industry is actually dependent on the whole infrastructure, on the whole economic situation in Bulgaria. There's no way you could land at a bad airport, for example, go on some bad roads and end up in the most perfect hotel. Yeah, it works, but that's cheap tourism. In fact, thinking more fully and focusing on our competitive advantages, I believe that the tourism industry has yet to develop quite well in this direction. We have unique things. I even, when I was trying to represent Bulgaria on international markets, they say to me: "Well, what is Bulgaria competitive about tourism? "In fact one of the biggest competitive advantages is that we may not have the best seas, the highest mountains, the greatest cultural heritages, but we have all these things in one place. In fact, this should be our focus and we must have a very targeted economic policy on how to raise added value. Regarding your second question. I haven't studied him super carefully, so I can't answer you categorically, but to me, this threshold of 50 has always seemed too low, I don't know if it should be 200,000, but 50 is too low. So thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u295	Thank you, Minister Petkov. We begin by expressing our attitude towards the Minister's answers. There's such a people, Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u296	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister Petkov, in general I can express my attitude that there is no focus of your answers on my questions. Thank you, however, for answering, but a number of questions such as: whether there is a legal analysis of the costs/benefits of all projects that are included in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and, in particular, on financial instruments, there was no particularity, as well as the models that have been complied with in the specific projects. However, I have another summary, which I want to do in the end, and it is in relation to the examples that you give very often for the individual companies that are attracted as investors in Bulgaria. It always seems to me, first of all, that it is important to stimulate domestic companies, domestic companies, domestic production and then turn around and see if we can attract foreign companies here, especially when it comes to spending public funds in parallel. What do I mean? At the request I mean your insistence, the Rules for Implementation of the Law on the Film Industry were adopted yesterday or the other day. I think it was yesterday, if I'm not mistaken. In this regard, I would like to recall the following. The amendments to the Law on the Film Industry were tabled on 27 November and the 44th National Assembly, bypassing the State Budget Act and with a violated procedure for public discussion by GERB. A day earlier the National Assembly adopted a framework for financing Bulgarian cinema amounting to 16 million for project financing of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed amendments to the Film Industry Act foresee an increase in the financing of the film industry by 25 million. BGN, which are not listed in Program 4 "Movie Arts," in the programming budget of the Ministry of Culture, with a scheme for introduction of financial incentives. I suppose here you will understand that financial incentives have nothing to do with the Law on Film Production, as it concerns the creative part. The financial incentives should be in the economic part, in the part of stimulating foreign investments in Bulgaria in some form. That is why this law should not have such incentives. The amendments adopted to the Film Industry Act lack any economic and financial argumentation, economic analysis, expense/benefits and benefits for the need to introduce financial incentives are missing such an analysis, in the absence of income and corporate taxation at a 10% rate, which, on a sufficiently low basis, is for attracting foreign investment precisely in the film industry and in film productions. In general, I can summarize that it is strange what imposes such a speedy adoption of the Rules for Implementation of the Film Industry Act by the caretaker government precisely? Despite the many problematic texts and frankly lobbying regulations, which have already been repeatedly expressed as concerns by the Ministry of Finance and the government of GERB and the caretaker government. It is also strange how the appropriateness, effective and efficient spending of public finances for financial incentives will be ensured? It's really weird, because maybe a particular company located in Boyana is expecting these incentives!? What is the economic analysis of the cost/benefits I was talking about from the introduction of financial incentives for foreign productions in Bulgaria in the presence of a tax rate for income tax and corporate tax of 10%? Finally, why has the legal term for public consultation not been respected? And the legal period for public consultation of 30 days had to expire not on 23 or 24 July, but had to expire long after that. It's just that this time limit has not been respected for public discussion. Finally, I would like to say about the Bulgarian Development Bank, any type of connectivity should be able to be considered.................................... We can even consider in the so-called central loan portfolio which loans are tried through GERB to be inserted into the patrimony, in the bank's credit portfolio, such as the API Agency, I mean, to increase its portfolio over the 25 percent that are eligible. This should be paid particular attention. Also the last thing I am finishing with is whether and how this department was managed by the Board of Directors for concessions and whether this department influenced some concessions that became a pledge for loans through the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u297	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Come in from GERB-SDS!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u298	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, without any intention of defending any of the previous management or securing and covering the loans given so far, I will start with our attitude as follows. Since the first day of the office and the entry into your office as Minister of Economy for me you have stumbled between two lobbys with regard to the Bulgarian Development Bank, one of which seeks to privatize it and the other to liquidate it. Although you know very well and have confirmed that the Bulgarian Development Bank is a bank operating with a full banking license, it can operate like any bank and also fall under the supervision of all supervisory institutions in this respect, it has no problem with its liquidity and capital adequacy indicators. As of 31 March 2021, the liquidity coverage ratio was 421% at significantly above the regulatory rate of 100%. The exposure and structure of the BBI lending portfolio, which you have repeatedly exported as information, is that the relative share in percentages such as small and medium-sized enterprises, taking credit as a number of over 90%, and the amounts for them are 62%. State and municipal enterprises under 1% as the number of loans and amounts in the order of 15%, while large corporate clients still below 1% of the total, the amounts being approximately one-fifth of the loans granted. The majority of exposures are to small and medium-sized enterprises, namely what is the essence and reason for the functioning of the bank itself, and I stress that more than 99% of the number and 62% of the amounts are aimed at such enterprises. It is to them that we believe that the activities of the bank should continue and mainly the lending and service of these types of enterprises should be directed to develop Bulgaria's economy to the least average level of productivity of the European Union. But it was interesting that your sequence of media appearances which, to one extent or another, tried to downplay all these facts that you did not deny about both the adequacy and the functioning of the bank and the non-existent problems in its financing. So let's say. On one side, speaking after that, you see, the desire of some political economic circles to privatize this bank. I am glad that you do not support this lobby, and we GERB stand firm against the privatisation of the Bulgarian Development Bank. On the other hand, however, we are witnessing the sneaking of another lobby, which, you see, says to do the Bulgarian Development Bank to finance a high-risk startup, in which there is nothing wrong. But if we don't talk about a government bank! Understand me correctly! If we are talking about a state bank that will provide 80%, that is, those loans that you may be offering, which we are hearing from media outlets up to 5 million. BGN, hand out those 2.5 billion that the bank has to finance, hand them out to 500 600 innovators, you very well tell us to create the Bulgarian Skype, only to tell our colleagues in the hall, and to those who listen to us and see that Skype was created by four developers from Estonia and because of their good idea, without funding from the Estonian state, they sell it for 2 billion after 2 years. But this does not benefit the Estonian state, wins no other Estonian, except those four who come with good idea innovation and a way to develop and sell to a large company. So please, we GERB are inclined to support you in not privatizing the Bulgarian Development Bank, to remain the property of the state, but not to go in the other direction of these political economic circles, which whisper to you to make it, to distribute 500 small loans secured by the Bulgarian citizens, you say again and again, from the Bulgarian taxes to 80%. Because high-risk enterprises should not be the subject of a state bank, but there are many other investment funds that you certainly know as an entrepreneur how to operate. So we GERB tend to help you in this venture and not take any side from these two lobbies. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u299	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Do you want the floor from the BSP for Bulgaria? There aren't any. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u300	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Notice what model there has been in Bulgaria so far the bank, which has been specially created to support small businesses, has primarily given loans to large companies! Even this bank, which was created with a primary purpose for those companies that have no one to finance, to help them.. it has given loans to large companies?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u301	There's a grandmother who knows.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u302	This is a terrible model, and this should never happen again. You're right to set a limit of 5 million. BGN, but maybe that's not enough either. Perhaps we should change the Bulgarian Development Bank Act together, so that we will never again fall into such a situation. After that, Mr. Minister, it is worth checking by what criteria such loans have been given at 100 million. lv. And who'd they say no to? To give these loans to certain companies, they have not given many other companies that have applied. It is worth doing a special inspection and, as far as possible, despite banking secrecy, this information will become public because in order to obtain such companies of 100 million. BGN, first it is important by what criteria are these loans distributed, which companies have not received funding? I mean, it's about rejections, checking out the ones she's denied. This information should be available and deserves attention. Next, it is interesting that BNB Supervision had an on-the-spot check in this bank and what have they found? Didn't they find any concentration? Have they ever asked that question? After that, was there any action, was there any action taken by the bank? This is a very important question to see how Oversight works, has it checked on the spot? Or he was carrying out remote control, which would be an interesting topic to talk about. And why should the principal of the bank be replaced so that you can properly take the actions you have done to determine what is happening to this bank? So these questions have yet to be answered. In addition, the verification of collateral must be brought to the end. There is an opportunity for the bank to be verified by the Court of Auditors if we all consider this a good option. Because your revelations are without any doubt important and worthy of respect, but the depth is not enough. In other words, we need to see everything to the end how it happened there, and not only to seek responsibility, but not to allow such practices to happen again in Bulgaria. There is indeed an opportunity in the Bulgarian Development Bank Act to take the necessary action so that the subject is more clear about what loans are given, what companies, under what conditions to have the guarantee that no matter what government comes to power tomorrow we will not have such a situation before our eyes. And to all my colleagues, how has Bulgaria managed to achieve a high growth of 7 to 8%, as the Baltic countries have done, notice, as I said at the beginning, if even the bank, which was created specifically to finance small companies, has given 20 credits for huge value? How do we do that, guys? Yes, there should be no privatisation of this bank because there are enough private banks with huge liquidity, and there is no need and there is no reason for this bank to be privatised. But she has to start doing her job and fund exclusively and only small companies that can't for many reasons, whether they are too new and too innovative, to get funding from commercial banks. But, honourable Members, realize what an environment there was yesterday in Bulgaria and realize that with this environment the goal of high economic growth is impossible, including because of the problems with corruption, including because of this overconcentration model that has been obtained. It's up to all of us to change that, because when we draw the line, what happens? A great fallout in Bulgaria, including already from Romania, as we have already spoken today, which none of us should satisfy it. This is something that we need to change together, and we, together, from.. Democratic Bulgaria.... are adamant that anything is possible. Bulgaria can reach both Romania and Western European countries, and high growth is possible, but the focus should be on the development of small businesses, innovative companies. All of this can happen and is the task of a future government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u303	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The BSP went over your head, and there were no willing ones. All right, you wait till everyone gets through. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u304	Madam President, honourable Members. Dear Minister, let's finish the subject with Peevski before I express my attitude. Economic connectivity is best developed and most widely developed in the Credit Institutions Act. My request to you is: order the competent authorities of the Bank to check on this broad connection whether there is a connection with Mr. Peevski, with his family members, with the companies, and then my request will be to answer us with.................................................................................. We're done here. As for everything that has been exported to the Development Bank, we would admire everything that you have done there, and everything that the team is doing to restore the role of the Bank to be used as I have seen as chairman of the Temporary Commission for Public Fund Control on the Code of Crisis. I had to deal with all the organs back then, including the Bank, most of the tools went through the BBI and worked. That's the model. So the financial instruments there work great for the other banks and so on, but what's our remark to you and the claim? First, for any bank, the banking theme is a sensitive institution and before public speaking all this had to be done. I understand that the office had one main task of showing in the election campaign some things to support election-specific parties. But it's about the banking theme. All these things could have been done without going to the media and suggesting certain things, so let's say unverified things are not incorrect, and this is not just about the colleague who asks. This is about the companies that took credit. For example, one of them is a large chain of commerce, which quite calmly with the suggestion that has been made, could have stopped people buying there or their suppliers stopped giving them. This would have caused damage to both the company and the employees and the Bank a second damage that this talking could have done if it had not done so. In the Bank, as you rightly pointed out, in addition to the state resources, there are many different credit lines, instruments to finance various businesses and so on, and the largest, as far as I know, is 1.5 billion. Euros. Look at the contracts, if you haven't looked at them, they're fixed-term, but inside there are conditions under which the credit line becomes required. Believe me, with what you have put in the media, if I am the head of a fund or investor of the Bulgarian Development Bank, I would make the required credit line. Nobody's profiting from that. In banking matter you walk on the streets, quietly. This does not prevent checks from being carried out, it does not prevent everything from coming into place and the guilty from being punished. He's got organs, give them to him! Anyone who's run over an onion, take responsibility! But that's no way to talk about it. Honestly, I give it to political inexperience, but on the other hand, you're a professional, financier, and you know this shouldn't happen! Thirdly, in terms of privatisation. Colleagues don't have to know, but let's still tell them: causa perduta is to privatize a bank that doesn't have a branch network and which doesn't have investors, because it only has these funds from the state, there isn't even a good business portfolio, because it doesn't look for a good business portfolio. Another is the purpose of such a bank, even if it worked under the rules, and in fact all credit lines have conditions, and they are required under certain circumstances, but are absolutely required, and if you proceed to privatisation, that is to say what you will sell. There's nothing in there about either depositors, deposits, business, or a branch network, so the sale of this bank is lacy. These banks are set up for another purpose, not to sell them. I'm not in any danger of comforting you all, even if someone wants to. My request is really professional to concentrate and to do the Bank in the current development of things in the economy and in the goals that I see that most parties have set themselves, really to step on high growth through high-profit activities, such as high technology, such as the green economy and so on, and there is a screaming need for such a bank. But I'm still saying you shouldn't do it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u305	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Get up. Get up. Get up. Get up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u306	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, first of all, to say that we welcome the approach you have taken in the last two months, namely to continue a work which the Revision Committee has tried to start in the 45th National Assembly, but you have been even more eager and determined to develop. It is about showing the light of practices in the Bulgarian Development Bank, which wake, to put it mildly, concern in all of us. I, as a member of the Committee on Revisions in the 46th National Assembly, say and declare that we will continue with the extraction of the truth about the schemes in the BBI, because the mission of the Bulgarian Development Bank is to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which, as you said, are just under 400 000 in Bulgaria. In fact, this is the backbone of the Bulgarian economy. At best, the Bulgarian Development Bank would improve the access to credit of these enterprises or reduce its price in the sectors in which commercial banks have no interest or are too risky for them to invest. It would have been very nice, very necessary and necessary in the context of a type of crisis in which the small and medium-sized business suffer the most, to have a sustainable partner in the face of the Bulgarian Development Bank, which will support the small and medium-sized business. Firstly, to make sure that he survives, secondly, to prepare him for the new times after the financial crisis, related to and with a species of epidemic, which has once again wasted an opportunity, missed time. For many years the BBI, unfortunately, works under the conditions of circumventing the Law, because, as some of the colleagues know, under law, the BBI cannot have more than 10% exposure from its own capital and there is a ban on lending companies related to politicians. Both things have been broken in recent years, and you've seen what this has led to. It is also sad that instead of supporting the sectors that had needed, as mentioned here, tourism, the BBC supported retail chains, distribution of fuel, road construction and transport companies, companies that could obviously find and collect loans from almost any bank, but just through the Bulgarian Development Bank it was more profitable for them, not to say they received the necessary gifts. And here are some questions, which I hope we will find in the coming months.... are the loans returned from these companies, are the collateral supported, how are the repayment plans implemented? These things are extremely important because, as the gifts were made at the beginning, so if the gifts continue, nothing good is done. At the end of 2019, we note that the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund have one support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, and they report that by 1 billion. 167,000. lv. support 4659 small and medium-sized enterprises in Bulgaria. You just said that with two billion Bulgarian Development Bank supported 20, i.e. not small and medium-sized enterprises, but 20 enterprises. So compare 459, on one side, to 20, on the other side. And here the question is: why on the European mechanism, on the European programmes can and on the Bulgarian programmes cannot? And here, to make it clear to colleagues from GERB, to say 2 billion. BGN, which are invested in 20 enterprises close to the power, is more or less equal to 67 000 tonnes of sudzhuk [[Applause from IBBNI]] That is, these 67,000 tons of sudjuk could be for all of us, and eventually we could meet a hungry winter, if any, in reserve. Mr. Minister, you said that from a business point of view several criteria are sought to invest clients, suppliers, the third was labour costs, the fourth was political and corrupt risks. Here, on the fourth, Bulgaria has always failed. In fact, the business approach that needs to be applied in order to have investments in Bulgaria, to stop stumbling and to be the last in Europe for wealth and investment, is precisely this political corruption risk to be removed. And that is why I hope that both the position that you expressed for tourism and that it can develop much better, because in Bulgaria there is everything - culture and history and nature and good people, and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, including the increase of the threshold for mandatory VAT registration from 50 000 to 200 000 BGN, will become a fact in the coming months. Because, honourable Members, I end up with what I started with - small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the Bulgarian economy. We must strengthen this spine to have a good economy, a worthy nation, a rich nation! Thank you. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u307	Thank you. Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u308	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We have always guessed what was going on in this bank from the moment that its manager was Stoyan Mavrodiev, because of the things we knew about him at the C.F.R. because of the things he did during the protests and Dimitar Lambovski, but until the moment when the current minister of business didn't get specific data, we didn't really know what was going on. The moment the specific data was extracted, I asked a central banker a question: Is there anything good at the Bulgarian Development Bank? His answer was: The only good thing is that politicians play only with her and do not play with the other banks in the banking system! This can't go on, obviously. And in order not to repeat the words of my colleagues about all the mistakes that have been made in the past, I would like to give a few recommendations for the management of the Bulgarian Development Bank, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance and the NRA. A report by the Greek Ministry of Finance just two weeks ago said 18% of Greek companies had access to loans. I would very much like the Bulgarian Ministry of Economy to make a report in which to see from these 460 000 Bulgarian companies, how much they have access to credit, what sectors they are in, how much credit they receive, how much they need, and precisely then the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance will know which parts of our economy need funding, how much is this funding, whether the ceiling should be 5 million. BGN, whether this 5 million lv. be part of any syndicated loans in which the Bank gives a percentage of the total loan, seeking and guaranteeing the attraction of other investors? Because agree that 5 million. lv. for even a small business is only a small amount, not to mention medium-sized business, and someone still has to finance the medium-sized and large business in Bulgaria, and this does not always do the corporate banks. Dear Minister, I have a criticism of you "This is how the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board were elected." He was chosen absolutely opaque, in the same way that he was chosen before the people you offer. I didn't see any publicity. Perhaps you can explain why it has been done so, but I believe that if a public procedure had been made, with public invitations of people to bankers, to participate in this procedure, the quality of the Supervisory and the Governing Council might have been better. The next minister of economy and the next governors must make a good assessment of whether a new procedure should be made, a new composition of the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board of the Bank should be chosen accordingly. These are my recommendations to you. It doesn't even make sense to go back to the past. Either way, this huge concentration of credit, I hope, will never happen again. It's nice to have a limit. What the limit should be, as I said, should be assessed in terms of what the economy wants, not just because someone looked somewhere and said 5 million. BGN, or 5 million. EUR, or 10 million, does not matter, everything must be justified by some analysis. I therefore call on you to do this analysis as quickly as possible, to see how many of these 460 thousand companies have been artificially created to reach the threshold of 50 thousand. lv. and shut down, and move on to the next, assess all this work that will really lead to some growth in our economy. Finally, to conclude, I would like to say that the opinion of the parliamentary group of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria is categorically against the privatisation of the Bank. I can also express my personal opinion, as we have not yet discussed it in the group, and against taking parts of the Bank of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-29.u309	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. That concludes this point and this hearing. I have been given to read you parliamentary control reports according to established practice. Do you want me to read it to you, or do you want it to be made available to the parliamentary groups? [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "No, no! "]] Okay. Second, session, tomorrow, 9:00 p.m. We start with a hearing of Minister Rashkov and then the first questions will be to Minister Petkov. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
