ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u1	Colleagues, Happy New Year! Let's wish she was healthier and calmer! Please, registration mode. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, we are about to hear the anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. Please stand up. [[Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound.]] Thanks, guys. I present to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme for 13 January 2021: Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the United patriots: "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importers suppose Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 13 June 2019 ............................................... The proposal is under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the first Wednesday of the month. There is no proposal from the other parliamentary groups. "2." First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Importers.. Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 9 December 2020. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020 5. Hearing of the Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski, the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova, the Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov and the Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the situation on the territory of the country in relation to the deteriorating weather situation and the actions taken by the competent authorities. Importers suppose Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs on 12 January 2021, point 1 for Thursday 14 January 2021. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Beekeeping Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2020, point 2 for Thursday 14 January 2021. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of diversion and circumvention of taxation. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020, point 3 for Thursday 14 January 2021. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021, point 1 for Friday, 15 January 2021. 9. Parliamentary control after the legislative part of the meeting was concluded on Friday 15 January 2021. Please vote on the proposal for a Programme for the National Assembly's work this week. Vote 191 MPs: 131, against 12, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1923-NS Sofia, 22 December 2020 on the announcement of Georgi Alexandrov Alexandrov as MP in the Third Election Region of Varna, in the 44th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No. NS-02-11 of 21 December 2020 in the Central Election Commission the President of the National Assembly informs the Central Election Commission that the People's Representative Valentin Kirilov Kasabov, elected from the list of coalitions...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 72, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria has been terminated. With an inch. No. NS-11-1 from 21 December 2020 in the Central Election Commission has received an application from the candidate for MP Ivo Kolev Pazardzhiev, declaring and declaring that he does not wish to be elected as MP from the list of coalitions In accordance with art. 255, para. 1, t. 3 of the Election Code, the consent of the applicant to be registered is an absolute prerequisite for its registration by the proposed party, coalition or initiative committee, and after the election has been produced and for its declaration of elected MP. Where a candidate for a Member of the National Assembly submits an application to the Central Election Commission that he does not wish to be declared elected as a Member of the National Assembly, it should be interpreted that, in substance, there is a withdrawal of the consent of the applicant given through the application under art. 255, para. 1, t. 3 of the Election Code. The statement addressed to the CEC containing the unwillingness of the applicant to be declared elected as a Member of the National Assembly prevents the Central Election Commission from doing so due to the lack of an absolute prerequisite expressing its consent to registration, respectively its declaration as a Member of the National Assembly. There is essentially a statement of refusal by the applicant to be declared elected, which binds the Central Election Commission and makes it impossible to take a decision under art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code against this candidate. After a check of list A and list B on multi-mandated electoral districts, the Central Election Commission found that Ivo Kolev Pazardjiev is listed under No 3 in the candidate list of coalition "United Patriots" "NFSB," "Ataka" and "VMRO" in the Third Election Region. On the basis of art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code upon early termination of the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly, the Central Election Commission should announce the next candidate on the list. The next candidate on the list of Coalition "United Patriarchs" "NFSB," "Attack" and "VMRO" under No 4 in the list B of the candidate list of Coalition "United Patriots" "NFSB," "Ataka" and "VMRO" in the Third Election Region of Varna, is Georgi Alexandrov Alexandrov. The Central Election Commission believes that the mandate of Valentin Kirilov Kasabov should be completed by Georgi Alexandrov. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP from the Third Election Region of Varna, Georgi Alexandrov Alexandrov, with EGN..., under No 4 of the list of Coalition "United patriots" "NFSB," "Attack" and "VMRO" in the 44th National Assembly. Please invite the MP to swear. Colleagues, please stand up. [[Everyone gets up.]] Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u3	Congratulations! Here you go. Thanks, guys. Honourable Members, in relation to the upcoming statements of the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and non-members in parliamentary groups, I propose a procedure for direct transmission of the addresses on BNT 2 and BNR. Please, voting mode. 195 MPs voted: 191, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please turn on BNT 2 and BNR cameras. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, today we open the last regular session of the mandate of the 44th National Assembly. It's not our job to make an overall assessment of his activities. That's what sociologists, political analysts, commentators will do. We who are inside can only remember. During the past four years, we have witnessed some rare but priceless moments of unity such as the celebrations of the 140th anniversary of the signing of the Tarnovo Constitution, but we have also witnessed demonstrably emptied parliamentary banks, sharp clashes and mutual accusations, of colleagues who participated in meetings through video links from their hospital beds, and of colleagues who at the same time refused to put masks on. We saw a gallows raised against the parliament building and let none of us succumb to the illusion that this gallows was only a message to his political opponents. No! It was evidence that we could all fall victim to confrontation between us when this confrontation was unprincipled and its purpose was to destroy props and burn bridges. Colleagues, we're about to get into an election campaign. Because of the epidemic environment, it won't look like any other campaign until now. The first parliamentary elections will be organised by a government in which GERB is the big coalition partner. Some politicians and political forces have now launched an attack on the honesty of the upcoming vote. As President of the National Assembly in October, I sent official letters inviting the European institutions to send observation missions in order to have peace in the Bulgarian citizens that the integrity of the vote would be guaranteed. Separately, each party has the right to advocates to monitor the counting of ballots. I call on everyone during the campaign to avoid suggestion that there is a danger of manipulation of election results. This will only reduce voter turnout and call into question the legitimacy of each one of the elected in the 45th National Assembly. And the biggest loser will be Bulgarian democracy. Thank you and wish you all a successful job! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Honourable Members, we are continuing with the statements of the chairmen of parliamentary groups. The chairman of GERB's parliamentary group has the floor. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The last session of the 44th National Assembly began in a situation of health crisis caused by the coronavirus. This, not the protests, the actions of the parliamentary and extra-parliamentary opposition or the attacks of various oligarchs, is the great challenge for the ruling majority. The health crisis and the softening of its economic consequences are the only possible priority for the government and the ruling majority in the current situation. The preservation of every human life and the preservation of the business perspective are the only possible motivations for effective work at the end of the current Parliament's term of office. In the name of this priority and these objectives, the parliamentary group of GERB is ready to listen to every reasonable voice and to show the necessary will and patience to prevent the epidemic from mutating in chaos and awkwardness. Both during the previous session and during the current session of the 44th National Assembly, our main opponent will continue to be the coronavirus, and our main ally will continue to be the majority of Bulgarian citizens who in times of trial showed that they have solidarity, responsibility and discipline so that we can deal with the crisis together. We will continue to work and assist Bulgarian medics, Bulgarian teachers and all who risk their health today in the name of life. In recent months, our fellow citizens, who are still on line one today, have shown that Bulgaria has the potential to face this huge challenge. It would be good at the remaining time until the end of the term of office of this Parliament, and then to take an example from people who, at risk of their lives, chose to help instead of hindering, to save instead of commenting, to live instead of exist. Today it is important to honor the memory of all those thousands of Bulgarians who lost the battle with the treacherous disease. They must not be forgotten, and we all owe support and respect to their loved ones. Dear colleagues, during the past session, the ruling majority held back the opposition's pressure and did not succumb to the provocations aimed at throwing the state and society into chaos and domination. I thank all my colleagues who, with their presence in this Chamber, have provided the Parliament with normal work. Without the normal functioning of the National Assembly today, there would be neither a budget for 2021 to soften the blows of health and economic crises, nor a government that could take the necessary measures to deal with them. I would remind you that at the opening of the previous session of the 44th National Assembly, President Rumen Radev asked the country to remain without parliament and a regular government in the peak phase of the health crisis. Today we are convinced that we did the right thing by failing to comply with his calls, whose bankruptcy is already visible to all. At the risk of taking political negatives, the representatives of the ruling majority did not succumb to pressure and thus preserved the possibility of making important decisions at a difficult time for the country. If this had not happened, along with the health and economic situation, Bulgaria would be going into political crisis today. The price for chaos and impotence would be paid not by the President and the leaders of the opposition, but by all Bulgarian citizens. In the last year of trials, the ruling majority and the government had to face not only the challenges of the epidemic and turmoil in the economy, but also the irresponsibility of the parliamentary and extra-parliamentary opposition. In the situation of political turbulence and protests we heard the voice of the protesters, but we also saw the inability of their political leadership to formulate and achieve significant goals. Our protests have made us more humble, and the inability of the leaders of the parliamentary and extra-parliamentary opposition to build a strong alternative to more responsible. At the end of this term of office, we are ready to accept the assessment of the Bulgarian voters, whatever it is, will be a measure of the effectiveness of the management. We do not live with the feeling of infallibility, and we are aware of both the responsibility we bear and the mistakes we have made over the past four years. We are aware that the ability to see, acknowledge and reflect our own mistakes makes us stronger. We have the self-esteem to say that, thanks to the reasonable financial policy that we have conducted during the mandate, today, we can help anyone who is affected by the economic consequences of health measures. We have the political reason to be proud of the fact that in the last four years we have doubled the incomes of Bulgarian teachers and thus placed education among the main long-term priorities of the nation. We have the power to thank our opponents for the consensus reached with regard to the conditions for starting negotiations between the European Union and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Against the background of these important issues such as "Which will be the date of the parliamentary elections?" They are only important to those who have been absent for the past year from solving the really important problems facing society. In the context of the unpredictable course of the epidemic throughout Europe, the sensible decision is to hold the elections as early as possible to ensure that the country has a working parliament in a situation where important decisions need to be made. We call on President Rumen Radev to take an hour sooner decision on the date of the elections and thus allow the institutions, parties and citizens to prepare for them! Dear MPs, we are aware that the election campaign implies not only political debate but also political confrontation. However, we hope that while trying to gain the trust of the Bulgarian citizens, each of us will have the awareness that after the elections the challenges and trials for the Bulgarian society will continue. It is therefore important to preserve the few fields of political consensus and the few unburned bridges. Because whoever gets the chance to rule will not only need a corrective but also an ally. In difficult times like today, Bulgaria needs unity and responsible solutions. Therefore, despite the political differences we have with the representatives of the opposition, we will continue to perceive them not as enemies, but as opponents and as speakers of the views of significant groups of Bulgarian society. We hope in the remaining time until the end of the term and during the election campaign to replace personal attacks and insulting qualifications with a real debate on the future of Bulgaria. We will be open to dialogue both now and after the parliamentary elections, regardless of what voter evaluation will be for us. I wish health and success to each of you and God to protect Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB, OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. I give the floor for a statement by Mrs. Cornelia Nino, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are opening the final session of the 44th National Assembly. Many numbers can be listed for adopted laws, decisions, ratifications. Dry statistics are important, but what's behind it is more important. And the most important thing is living life. For these four years, esteemed rulers, you continued to develop two parallel Bulgarians one television and one real one. From the screens we have heard that we are the country with the lowest deficit in Europe, but the real state you leave with 40 billion debt, leaving it with the fact that we are the poorest in Europe and with the greatest inequalities. Your country is a country with record investments in production, in factories that are open every day, and jobs, and the other one the real one, ended 2020 with 380 thousand new unemployed. In the management's, you are doing the best with the crisis, and in the real Bulgaria was in one period the first in mortality. Many more such examples can be listed, but there are three paintings, three images in recent months, which without words summarize everything about the management of GERB. The first one with the cash drawer and the gun. The second landslide to the Rila Monastery only a day after the prime minister boasted and opened the renovation. And the third is the present day of underwater half of Bulgaria. In general, these three paintings say: carelessness for people, incompetence, corruption and impunity. And this is the task before us all who want change to be a care for people, professionalism in governance, justice and honesty. We know that in four years you have accepted almost none of our concrete proposals for major changes in the management models of different systems. We don't believe you'll do it in the next month or two. You just don't have the will, and you don't have the time. Your time is up. But these proposals will come true. We know that after the election there will be a change. Of course, until then we won't just sit around and wait for them to come. We will not retreat from all our policies that have been defended so far, but in the short term, we will do two things. First of all, we understand that people's health is the most important thing at this point. Hundreds of millions have been spent. We want information about every lev spent on Bulgarian citizens. We demand public knowledge of how many hundreds of millions have been spent and how many Bulgarian citizens, households and families have reached, how many people have helped? We want a report of the government in what state Bulgaria is leaving, but not the TV report, but the real one, because we will do it and we will take responsibility for this period. Secondly, you have wasted the last 11 years for Bulgaria, we cannot allow you to waste the next 11. Dear Bulgarian citizens, we know that you are overwhelmed by worries about your flooded homes, about unpaid bills, about sick loved ones and certainly a topic that we will put on the table today will sound incomprehensible, abstract and distant, but it is key for each of us to each home and family, from the child to the oldest pensioner, in the coming months our future will be set for tens of years ahead: the adoption of a National Recovery and Sustainability Plan is forthcoming. In the government's plan, more than we've had in the last 11 years. Our alternative Plan gives a radically different perspective for Bulgaria - modern, industrial, with high technology, healthy, social and educated nation. Our priorities in this context are: Health care. On the basis of European funding and the high digitalisation objective.. building an electronic health card of every Bulgarian citizen with his health record, but the point of European funding and our European future is to combine it with national policy. That is why we add to this priority for a health card: hospitals will not be commercial companies; healthcare will be regionalised and in every region there will be emergency care, hospital and hospital care; the VAT of medicines will be 9% and there will be a regulation on basic salary of all medical personnel. Education. On the basis of digitalization, the development of a single electronic education system in which there is information about each student what he has studied, who has experienced it, how he has appreciated it, but along with this one textbook in one class for the whole country. A review of the content of the textbooks is very important form of digitalization and modernization, but even more important is how, what our children teach. Combating poverty, inequalities and demographic policy: building a single electronic tax register; family income tax for 800,000 young families with children; lifting flat tax and introducing progressive; recalculating all pensions; social measures related to combating poverty and inequalities. Ecology and agriculture. Building an electronic land register with white spots, with ownership, with subsidies, but along with the national policy for redistribution of subsidies to Bulgarian fruits, vegetables, meat and milk and investments for clean food, water, air and land. All these changes will lead to modern and modern conditions for economics and production. Economics and production are the foundation of every prosperity. We can build modern Bulgaria and I think the elections will start for this. Not just one party to replace another and continue the same, but a new beginning to change a model, a vicious model. We will work for fair and transparent elections. Dear Bulgarian citizens, the change depends on all of us. It's possible. Ask her and be active in her performance. I know we can do this. Let 2021 be healthy, calmer and better for every Bulgarian home and for Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Next is the statement of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today begins the final session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. With this session we will close the page of a rather controversial and diverse period of our latest history. A period of helpless wandering, presumptuous and irresponsible behavior, management without reforms with a lot of PR and bragging. When it came to power, GERB inherited 8 billion. lv. It's a fiscal reserve. At the end of his first term GERB accumulated 8 billion debt. After two more mandates, the crises are deepening, the interinstitutional war is destroying statehood, democracy is in decline, the economy is in collapse, the confidence in the business climate is totally destroyed, the tensions in society are growing, the division is deepening, and by including a form of the crisis, we need to emphasise that it has made the real situation more visible, especially in the unreformed health system. The last past year we will also remember with the promiscuous spending and passed by law state budget for election purposes. For the most part, legislation in recent years has been part of the general chaos and has further compromised democracy and the rule of law, has disrupted the trust of citizens in institutions and authorities with thoughtless, often controversial and controversial ideas associated with close party interests. It is enough to mention the amendments to the Election Code, which clearly illustrate this. With the amendments adopted in the law, the government created conditions for the electoral process not only to make it difficult and to increase the possibilities for errors and abuses, they mined the elections and created conditions for political instability after the elections, including for a parliamentary crisis. Typical for the management of GERB, the problems are not only not solved, on the contrary, new problems are created, even though their solutions are clear and known. The approach with the budget implementation for last year and the state budget for this year on the principle of quotes to give everyone to be satisfied, aims in advance a guaranteed professional victory for the government. But the same may remain quite surprised by the election results and the assessment of voters who very well realize the deep difference between medialy announced successes and reality, because every day they are placed in a situation on their backs to experience the so praised achievements of GERB and difficult to provide a decent life for themselves, their children and parents. Perhaps the most important elections are coming after 1989 because these elections will depend on whether and for how long we will deal with the crisis created by GERB, and if we use the terminology of the conflict, how and for how long we will deal with the virus GERB, which destroys democracy and freedom in Bulgaria. [[Applause from DPS.]] If we want a decent life, we will choose programs and we will not allow fear, hatred and opposition to block common sense, we will put aside stereotypes and prejudices that hinder objectivity. Otherwise, once again, power will be given to people who can only divide and sow hatred, fuel alienation and provoke tension, create crises and run away from responsibility, until the results of such management models become apocalyptic, then salvation is quite difficult and long. A divided society cannot succeed. Tension, hatred and aggression can't get us out of crisis, solve our problems. It is the voters who will say how quickly our country will be able to make up for lost time and start an economic rise. After the election, the new governors will have a very difficult task. On the one hand, there must be a cure from the coronavirus, and on the other, a healing of society and its unification, for unity, for freedom and justice. Together for a better future of our children in our homeland, a unity that steps on the constitutional principle of equality of all people, of all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of origin, ethnicity, gender, religion, social status and so on, for tolerance and respect for difference, for acceptance of the truth, that the potential for development and new opportunities is locked in diversity, as it is proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: The recognition of dignity inherent to all members of the human race, of their equal and inalienable rights, constitutes the basis of freedom, justice and peace in the world, so as not to repeat the barbaric acts which shocked the conscience of humanity." They quote again from the Universal Declaration: "To show that we can learn from the mistakes of the past and from the lessons of history." The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will continue to carry out its mission of guaranteeing human rights and freedoms, the territorial integrity of the state and its sovereignty, the irreversibility of democracy, for a developed economy. The DPS will be responsible for presenting its programme to its voters and all Bulgarian citizens, a programme for accelerated, catching up economic development of the country. The DPS will continue to work for priorities: clean air, clean water, clean food, clean energy, high technologies, hydrogen economy, inclusion of free and active citizens in the formation of political decisions and control over their implementation. The DPS will actively participate in the implementation of the Green Pact of the European Union. Regardless of the election period, the government must draw up a plan to deal with the health and socio-economic crisis in the conditions of COVID-19, as well as a programme for effective recovery of EU funds for COVID 19, including a clear programme for effective implementation of the funds for Bulgaria from the Multiannual Financial Framework for the next operational period, based on the Green Pact and digital transformation. The government is required to organise fair and free elections. Election participants should not forget that the language of the election campaign depends on the much-needed dialogue after the elections, namely the dialogue is the necessary condition for political stability after the elections. Otherwise, we will be witnessing populist-patriotic rhetoric with a key characteristic speech of hatred that will continue to separate, alienate, create tension, undermine democracy and erotic statehood. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the crisis of health, social, economic, political and institutional needs urgent measures and actions. The growing distrust in the electoral process imposes responsible behaviour in the name of peace and democracy. We of the DPS appeal to all voters, the entire civil society and to all political forces to be empathetic to the choice of a model for the future of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Next is a statement by the co-chair of the group "United Patriarchs" (in Bulgarian) Mr. Iskren Veselinov. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! We are at the end of a government that has been marked by permanent crises, but the biggest one associated with the pandemic continues to raging. Very soon we will give a clear answer to the public as to why we were involved in power, what we have achieved and why we were not tempted to leave it when it was politically profitable. We will only point to the obvious response. The falling cases of infection every day and the normalizing work of the health system, on the one hand, and the serious package of measures to support business and the victims of the crisis, on the other. If we were tempted to take the easy way, if we had submitted to the street and media pressure and betrayed the country to political chaos, Bulgaria would very likely today have neither adopted budget nor elected government, that is, neither financial resources nor adequate organisation to deal with the crisis. In addition, budget 2021 is a legitimate basis for staying in government because this is the budget of our fulfilled election commitments. We continued the trend of income increases. The minimum pension is already 300 BGN, and the third year in a row the budget has ensured wage growth by 10%, and for the sphere of security the increase from the beginning of the mandate is about 50%. Teacher's wages have doubled. We have passed family income tax and every Bulgarian child will feel the state support. We stood nationally responsible for the Republic of Northern Macedonia. That is, despite the frantic power drive of certain individuals and parties, we remained in our position and did what we were chosen to do. However, if there is a really worrying trend for our society, this is the insane division, political selfishness and the fact that many of the party leaders profess the devastating maxim the worse, the better. There is no awareness of the need for national unity and consensual national priorities. I declare it most responsible on the eve of elections, which appear to go again under the sign of hatred, defamation and opposition. By the way, for us unity is achieved not by distinction, but by national values. In spite of this trend, we will continue to uphold our principles and ideas, to seek unity and to put the interests of the Bulgarian nation above all else. Here are our priorities in this last forty-fourth National Assembly session. We would like to have a strong faith in the state, which we need to have in this term: the criminalisation of radical Islam, radical Islam, not as religion, but as the ideology of modern terrorism; the extension of the inevitable defence, the reformation of the notion of small-scale theft, which today is so widespread that we can steal many times to the size of two minimum wages, i.e. 1,300 BGN, with the only penalty that our compatriots never pay, of course; the law on the occupation of individuals, or the so-called private insolvency, we have made an incredible breakthrough by removing the figure of our country's senior debtor, but we need to settle the normal existence of the fee during these 10 years; the law on local taxes and fees; we want to start the corporate agricultural ownership and make the first steps for this to overcome the latifundification of our country; the law for energy and the release of the fee of the former municipal installation. In addition, I would like to make it clear that we are not going to allow for a change in the electoral rules on the eve of the parliamentary vote. We strongly oppose the idea of voting by post and of removing 35 sections for countries outside the European Union. All of this is being garnished today with very tearful explanations of how these people should strengthen their relationship with their homeland and therefore the restrictions should be dropped at all. But the facade behind which England is presented to us is not an appropriate example because 17 - 18 thousand Bulgarians voting in England can easily vote in 35 sections. There will be less than 500 voters in one, i.e. there will be small sections for the scale of Bulgaria. While the true intention of those who propose the trend is to re-stop the vote in Turkey, where hundreds of thousands could vote and, in practice, under the dictation of a foreign non-democratic state to reverse the electoral process in Bulgaria. Today, the restrictions introduced by us in the previous National Assembly for 35 sections in one country prevent them. We know that they are transporting their voters by bus and we know that if it was not for the action of the United Patriarchs on the closing of the border four years ago, we would probably have one ethnic party in the Bulgarian Parliament. Today, we will not allow anyone to make another gift of 10 members of the sultan's new old favorites in Turkey. We don't care why this thing does it. The good intentions are one thing, the national responsible position is another. This is our message to all who play with the subject. I hope they remember that they are called to be Bulgarian statesmen and not rains of the Sultan. We Bulgarian patriots have always had an example of our national heroes, their sacrifice. For example, today we celebrate Mara Buneva and her feat in Skopje. Let each of us think about what we would sacrifice from ourselves, and I think that if we start with personal and party selfishness, we will live in a better Bulgaria. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Next is a statement by the parliamentary group of the party Mrs. Taskova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Bulgarian citizens! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Volya, I wish everyone a happy New Year and wish every Bulgarian health and well-being! 2021, colleagues, will be crucial, will be fateful for the Bulgarians, because they have to make two important, substantial choices one for Parliament and one for President. Therefore, the people will determine in these elections who will lead it over the next four years. The people will not only determine who will guide him, but will give a sign how they want this to be done, what life every Bulgarian wants for himself..................... to continue to be miserable, to be robbed and disappointed, or to raise his incomes, to live better, richer and happier. A lot has been said these days about the date, the conditions for holding the elections for both votes. As early as the summer of last year during the protests, our leader made it clear that these protests would end with regular parliamentary elections on 28 March. To this day, the President's decree does not, but it does not matter to us when this famous decree will come out and what will be the date of the parliamentary elections. Why, colleagues? Because for us the work for the Bulgarian people is not limited by an election campaign. We proved it before we became politicians.. especially Veselin Mareshki, who worked for the Bulgarians for 30 years to live better. We perceive politics as another chance to help our people.. we do not wait for elections to be made to promise, we do not wait for elections to be made to give useful management ideas and decisions. As everyone in this House knows, many times in the past term have sounded pragmatic and effective proposals of the will. Some you heard about, colleagues, others you listened to, and you still do. Some of you rejected them, some of you started presenting them as your own as your election promises most likely, as I now see it happening with our initiative to introduce free medicines for children up to the fourth grade and free medicines for pensioners over the age of 65. Not only are we not jealous that you are copying us, but, on the contrary, we welcome that you are ripening for the useful ideas of Volya, even at a slower pace than we would like, and we welcome that you are becoming our followers even such old parties from the severe status quo of transition. However, we at WOLIA propose, if everyone is already aware that this is an extremely important anti-crisis measure, that it be adopted within this mandate so that every Bulgarian can feel at his own expense what free medicines mean for children and pensioners. Who's gonna lose if we slow her down? The Bulgarian people. Who's gonna win if we take her now? Again, the Bulgarian people. Our other idea, which we have been insisting on for several years, is building a state gas station chain. It will guarantee access to fair fuel prices for every Bulgarian citizen. [[Noise.]] You heard us. We passed the necessary laws a few months ago and that's that, colleagues! Not to mention that most of you don't dare say a word against the cartel. What does he respect you with? Should we leave it to your conscience, or will someone dare finally talk about the important problems of Bulgarian society? Each employer wants short periods, quick and pragmatic solutions. And who is our employer? Did most of you forget? The Bulgarian people! Don't forget it, because we're back in a campaign and you're going to fight for the trust of this employer. And any reasonable thinking employer never chooses employees who have misled or betrayed him. [[Noise.]] People want to live better and happier today, now. Not after another 30 years, not months. Everyone in the last 30 years who's been running our country has been promising the same thing. In our daily contact with Bulgarian citizens, we receive an assessment of the level of fulfillment of the promises. Because the crisis has shown more than that. She made it very clear who is who, who can and who does what and whether is next to his people to help him in these difficult times and days and who looks at his own interest, or that of his party. You're all talking about unification again today, colleagues, but your behavior speaks very differently. You're broadcasting the exact opposite. [[Noise.]] Once again, we advise you: before we unite in the name of the better future of the people and the state, obviously we should split up, but not into some fictional principle, of political elite and people, on one side to put the people again, but on the other side the parties of the status quo of the red carpet. We divide by one single sign: who can, who knows and who wants to make the Bulgarians richer and happier. We split up on who's an honorable patriot and who's a greedy political hypocrite. When this becomes very clear to everyone, then the unification of true politicians patriots is possible. [[Noise.]] What about the others? They're just gonna drop out of the board. And it's time for action now. This catharsis must end now because none of the Bulgarians will want to be wasted another four years in empty hopes and new disappointments, in political experiments and hypocrisy. [[Noise.]] Madam President, I don't know why you're not making a comment to your colleagues. I take it not as a personal attitude towards me, but as a political culture. I can't hear myself in the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u13	That's right, Mrs. Taskov. Please, colleagues, be quiet. Let's respect each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u14	Are the microphones cut consciously?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u15	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u16	It is time for actions with real results that quickly feel positive in the pocket of every Bulgarian. For the will, I can guarantee that we will. In this sense, the only working formula for the development of Bulgaria and for prosperous Bulgaria is a coalition of Volya with the Bulgarian people, as our leader Veselin Mareshki said four years ago. And as you can see, more and more Bulgarians are convinced of this. In the near future, we of the Vole will offer the voters an unprecedented public trust treaty, because we are brought up when we give a man's word to hold on to it. Moreover, when we make a commitment to the Bulgarian people. Finally, I wish all MPs a fruitful job by the end of the term, less political hypocrisy, less meaningless political debates, turned into another political gum, more work for the benefit of the people and more wisdom. And to our compatriots, above all, I wish health, basic wisdom in the choice they have to make for the parliamentary race, and above all, prosperity. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Next is a statement by a representative of the non-members of a parliamentary group of representatives of the National Assembly. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u18	Dear Ms. Karayancheva, honourable compatriots, honourable Members of Parliament! We are at the start of the last political season of the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. There remains one incomplete season with less than 30 plenary sessions. It is time to take account of and identify urgent tasks. This National Assembly will remain in history with the boycott of the normal functioning of parliamentary activity by the opposition and the complete lack of desire for dialogue by the ruling majority. Laws were passed, whose task was to give legitimacy to governance deprived of broad public support. This opposition in parliament also moved on the street with long-lasting protests, clashes and formulated the need for change, because the problems of the Bulgarians became many and insurmountable from the poor infrastructure and the low incomes to the crisis in healthcare, which became noticeable during the cod pandemic. We, as MPs, did not fully accept the responsibility assigned to us by the voters, we exercised little control over the measures taken by the government; we accepted the replacement of the established mechanisms set out in the National Plan for Stand ready for influenza pandemic, with the rapid appointment of the National Operational Headquarters, to which the legitimacy of the powers remained controversial; we did not take a sufficiently active role in formulating the measures to reduce the damage to the economy and for each individual resulting from the anti-epidemic measures imposed. The establishment and validation of an important plan for the state is now forthcoming. The National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability of Bulgaria. It will distribute 29 billion. EUR to compensate for the damage caused by the pandemic and to create conditions for development in a number of sectoral policies. They should support the implementation of the Green Pact, give impetus to Bulgarian technologies, education, social implementation policies in the long term until 2027. We will hardly be able to fit into our programme in a sufficiently meaningful way the functions of Parliament to create and validate this important plan for the development of our country, but we need to highlight the legislative initiatives related to it and the mechanisms for parliamentary control of its implementation, including the establishment of a special committee of the National Assembly. The Commission must give equal access to control by all parliamentary parties for the distribution and spending of this huge financial resource. It is necessary to make every effort and not to allow the funds of European solidarity to echo again in someone's private pockets and to compromise our authority as a country covering European standards and the authority of statehood. Especially important is the role of the Bulgarian Parliament. At the end of 2020, we adopted the state budget, with which Bulgaria must provide all its needs, but once again we did not give the necessary burden to increase the welfare of the people. The proposed tax reliefs by the Group of Progressive Socialists remained outside the scope of the majority's attention, although the nature of the proposals was rational and would have increased the incomes of a huge number of taxpayers without violating the general budget framework. We put off the necessary additions to the Election Code for a long time and thus created prerequisites for reproach. Now, in a short time, but with a thorough debate, we need to make the necessary supplements. This should not be linked to the introduction of forms of voting that are not traditional to us and are not established electoral practices in EU countries, where we can gain experience. The restrictions on anti-epidemic measures also require changes in the forms of the election campaign. Meetings with voters will not be possible in such a way that parties have maximum access to voters to present their programmes, but also to give feedback to them. The Election Code should therefore reflect the new character for the upcoming election campaign with adequate free access to national media. In the forthcoming debate, we will present concrete proposals on the structure and mechanisms for this type of campaign, but now in my address, I place emphasis on this because the rules should not give priority to any party by virtue of status or because of available financial resources. Each voter should have the same opportunity to have representatives in the Bulgarian Parliament, and this can only happen under conditions of informed choice. During social isolation, we appreciated the advantages of traditional lifestyle, but we were given the opportunity to reveal the advantages of technology as well. We will therefore now hold elections by e-voting, perhaps with a greater degree of confidence in this innovation. For this reason, we should by no means allow a delayed or poorly organised procedure to affect the normal conduct of the elections. All institutions whose obligation is to secure the upcoming vote are subject to parliamentary control and we must exercise these powers. There are also things that are outside the scope of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thus, apart from the date of conduct, it is also possible for our compatriots abroad to exercise their right to vote in conditions of anti-epidemic measures of other countries. I therefore call on the President to set a date which is as far away from today's severe restrictions in a number of European countries. The 2020 past year of COVID-19 was also a year of severe political confrontation. The tension between the institutions demonstrates a lack of will and unconsciousness in a crisis of responsibility for unification of efforts in favor of the Bulgarian people. The parties followed the interests of their over-the-counters, and this was leading in their behavior, not the agenda of society. I pay particular attention to the fact that this was visible in the parliamentary parties. The newly created entities are clearly expressive of private and corporate interests. A great test for the Bulgarian voter will be the upcoming choice. The pointless populism once again takes the edge of real programmes and expert opinions. The refusal of elected MPs to carry out their duties questioned the sovereign of the purpose in his favour of the Bulgarian Parliament. Along with the self-target confrontation and scandals, this led to the low rating of the institution we represent. The provision of the quorum has become from the obligation of each people's chosen person to a political pressure instrument. We.. the Group of Progressive Socialists, responsibly opposed this trend. With our work in the National Assembly, participation in the debates, parliamentary control and the submitted bills, we worked to defend parliamentaryism. The positions we have stood for are a consistent follow-up of the political line for which each of us has received support for a mandate. It was by following our principles that we left the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to remain socialists. For all follow-up actions, we have received support from more and more people wishing for change. That is why we created the new left political project Dear colleagues, I wish you a successful job in the remaining months of the Forty-fourth National Assembly! [[Applause from part of non-members]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Colleagues, these were the statements of the chairmen of parliamentary groups on the occasion of the opening of the last session of the 44th National Assembly. We continue with messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 16 December 2020 to 12 January 2021: Bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer Daniela Daritkova. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill to supplement the Law on Administration. The importer is Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importer "Krasimir Tsipov." It is allocated to the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. A bill supplementing the Administrative Regulation Act and economic activities related to oil and petroleum products of oil origin. Importer "Julian Angelov" and group of MPs. The Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to state security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2020 to 20 December 2020. Importer. The Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Draft amendment to the Civil Aviation Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is allocated to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, the Economic Policy and Tourism Commission. Draft Amendment Supplement to the Energy Efficiency Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill for the provision of digital content and digital services and for the sale of goods. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the activities of the Economic and Social Council for 2020. Importer is the Economic and Social Council. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Bill amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill for special investment firms and securitisation companies. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Messages: In implementation of a decision of the National Assembly adopted on the basis of art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors on 27 September 2019, as amended by a subsequent Parliament Decision of 22 January 2020, the Court of Auditors submitted to the National Assembly an Audit Report with the relevant number (s) for an audit of compliance in the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the Audit Report was submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee and the Culture and Media Commission. The material is provided to the MPs of their e-mails. On 29 December 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2011 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). 2 of the decision of the National Assembly of 25 June 2020, adopted in connection with the debates on the questions of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Alexander Siddi to the Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Denitsa Sacheva on fragmented legislation in social policy, received from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy a draft Code of Social Support to unite the overall state policy in this area in a single legal act. The material is sent to the MPs of their e-mails, to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. On 23 December 2020, the National Assembly received a budget of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2021, adopted by the Governing Council of BNB on 1 December 2020, published in the State Gazette. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The material is provided to the MPs of their e-mails. By letter of the President of the Court of Auditors of 31 December 2020, the National Assembly received the Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2021. The Programme was submitted on the basis of art. 7, para. 3 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the Programme is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we're on the agenda. First, the proposal for inclusion on the agenda by the group of the United Patriarchs under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose to be included as a point in the forthcoming weekly program of the National Assembly for the period 13 January 2021. Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents by No 954-01-39 of 13 June 2019. It was introduced by Julian Angelov. Mr. Angelov, would you like to introduce us to your proposal? As you know, the proposals under art. 63, para. 8 to complete the Programme shall not be put to the vote, but directly for discussion in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, for many years, be safe and sound, all of you! Have a good year! We of the United States have introduced this bill as early as 2019 and our main goal was to make the Bulgarian communities abroad and the old Bulgarian communities, as they are in Macedonia, Serbia, Albania, Moldova, Ukraine and other countries, as well as the communities of the old Bulgarian emigration in the US, Canada and Western Europe, as well as the new Bulgarian emigration, which for one reason or another has lost Bulgarian citizenship... The idea is aimed at these people to receive a personal document of Bulgarian origin, i.e. with this identity card, which we offer, to be able to bind and enable all Bulgarians in the world to be part of Bulgaria's mother. With this personal document, which will apply only in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, that is, it will not give the right to work and move in other Member States of the European Union, namely only in Bulgaria, we allow all these millions of Bulgarians to enter the Republic of Bulgaria, to work on different statistics and calculations between 4 and 5 million Bulgarians, to be able to visit the Republic of Bulgaria, to live in the Republic of Bulgaria when they wish to enter the Republic of Bulgaria, to work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and to study in the Republic of Bulgaria. One of our goals is at least a partial solution to the huge demographic problem in Bulgaria, which has been weighing on the Bulgarian society for approximately 30 years and even above the Bulgarian people. We really want to make sure that our compatriots abroad see that the Bulgarian state thinks about them and does not separate them from the Bulgarians in Bulgaria because this is very important in view of the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is no accident that Bulgarians abroad and Bulgarian communities abroad are mentioned in the Bulgarian Constitution. We as MPs, following the Bulgarian Constitution, must make sure that the Bulgarian communities and Bulgarians abroad get a relief regime for every single thing and feel as part of the Republic of Bulgaria. Our proposal for a change in the Personal Documents Act is made in an option that gives different rights to these Bulgarian citizens. If we vote on this bill, as I said a moment ago, to be able to enter Bulgaria at any time with this personal document, to be able to work, to study including to buy property, that is, their identity card, the Bulgarians abroad, will have the status of permanent residence and will have the right to use it forever, unless, of course, they have violated Bulgarian legislation, including such texts are foreseen. Nowadays, we are also looking at comments on the topic: upcoming parliamentary elections..... about certain political parties or institutions concerned about the Bulgarians abroad.... how they will vote, in what way, whether they could by mail, whether they could in any other way. Here, we from the United Patriarchs really propose that these Bulgarian communities, these Bulgarians abroad, be part of Mother Bulgaria. I hope that all parliamentary groups of all Bulgarian parties will support such a change in the Personal Documents Act so that our compatriots abroad, who are millions, can truly see that Bulgaria, the Bulgarian National Assembly, the Bulgarian institutions care and want them to be part of Bulgaria. We know that there are many problems related to different institutions when a Bulgarian from abroad decided to come to study, work or live in Bulgaria. Sometimes because of certain rules, regulations, because of certain institutions, this process is really slowing down too long and the people who are from these Bulgarian communities are refusing to come to Bulgaria. We remember the crisis in Ukraine. We remember how thousands of Bulgarians from the conflict regions started to move to Bulgaria and we saw Bulgaria then purely legislative how these people could not help to arrange for their status. For months our institutions wandered and sought the legal way so that these people and their families could live legally in Bulgaria, to be able to work and support their own families. That's why we're proposing. I will give examples of Poland and Greece, which introduced, as in Poland, the Polish map, which enabled hundreds of thousands of Poles from Belarus, from the Baltic, Russia, Ukraine and other countries to be part of the Polish people and to be able to live, work and study in Poland at any time. Let us use these good examples that other countries have made. This will not cost the Bulgarian state any expenses. On the contrary, it will be a way for us to attract ethnic Bulgarians to live in Bulgaria, not to allow illegal immigrants from the Third World to settle in Bulgaria. I therefore call on everyone: let us be responsible, let us be in favour of the Bulgarian communities abroad and support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate, you have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I appreciate the dignity of the proposal that is being made by the United Patriarchs, but I do not think it is being offered in the form needed. Moreover, the proposal is contrary to the current legislation, which I believe covers with legislative norms the care they want to take against a certain category of our compatriots. I believe that we are also entering a colony with the European and part of the Bulgarian legislation. The reasons that I read and colleague Angelov presented are aimed at facilitating entry, stay, social status, participation in the labor market and training. However, there is one problem - Bulgaria has signed Regulation 2018/1806 of the European Parliament on the designation of third countries whose citizens must have visas. Annex 1 explicitly lists these countries. We have signed and adopted Regulation 1030 of 2002 on residence with a document whose duration must be no more than 5 years, and we offer an identity card to a person of Bulgarian origin whose duration must be 10 years! That is, we have colosis, contrary to European legislation. On the other hand, the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, which do not have Bulgarian citizenship, provides sufficient opportunities for these citizens to invest and participate in the business, economic life of the country. They may register legal persons, may also participate in the labour market. The only thing they can't do is inherit land, but even assuming that one of them inherits land by law, by the current legislation, he has a three-year grace period in which he must order himself with this land. Again in the same law, in art. 16 There is a provision on the grounding of these people who want to deal specifically with agriculture. As for the training, the Decree of the Council of Ministers of 1993 explicitly gives relief for these Bulgarian citizens to apply as Bulgarian citizens and to pay fees just like Bulgarian citizens. So at this stage I do not see the need to change the legislation in the part of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. We must say that the regulations are still binding in their entirety and are adopted and applied equally throughout the European Union. The Republic of Bulgaria is not a happy oasis in which legislation or part of European Union legislation cannot or should not be implemented. As far as participation in the labour market is concerned, I do not see, given that at the moment in Bulgaria there is a screaming need for medical personnel, it should be filled with Bulgarians who are such, with Bulgarian self-awareness, because not only with regard to doctors, but in general all diplomas in Bulgaria are subject to legalization, but some of the specialties I repeat, not only for doctors, but also for other specialties So we are going to get into a collision not only with the legislation of the European Union but also with our own. In our quest to write eyebrows, we will take out our eyes and drag sanctions. The other which I would also like to draw attention to the European Union's recommendations on the easy receipt of documents for Bulgarian citizenship. Since we already got hit by the hand there, not to mention on the cheek, we are now wondering how to make it easier to find some kind of emergency exit regarding the issue of ID cards to individuals of Bulgarian origin. I think that after all that has been said, it is clear that we from the BSP for Bulgaria are not going to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Baychev, you started your speech very well, mentioning that it is a good idea and that it is worth considering. With these first words, it seems that you have stopped here and then expressed only negative things and explained why the BSP for Bulgaria is not going to support this proposal. In order to submit such a bill, there is therefore some problem... this is not our objective, to create an image through legal changes or new laws. This is a deeply realized need of hundreds, I can say to thousands of people who are representatives of the traditional Bulgarian communities abroad who are having difficulties with their stay in Bulgaria. Many times by your party, many times by the presidency have expressed their opinion that the Bulgarian communities abroad should be maintained, that the opinion should be listened to, including in the talks held with the President. It is absolutely unfounded for me that you should stand against the idea of Bulgarians who are born of origin who are born, who defend with the cost of huge efforts under pressure from foreign countries, when assimilation from them, to create cultural companies, to create Chitalishtes, Sunday schools and so on; and Bulgaria, when it comes to helping them at such a time, to reach out and make a gesture to them that they are real Bulgarians and deserve to be so, you stop them. Moreover, so far, you know, there are also changes in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. We have seen that the clumsy administration creates quite serious obstacles for these people to be able to obtain in a rapid manner. Therefore, we are making changes in this law in order to make the issue of Bulgarian personal documents faster and faster to obtain Bulgarian citizenship, to eliminate all fears and opportunities for corruption and so on. But the fact is that this law has not yet been passed. He demands his procedures, demands his...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u25	You've exceeded the time, Mr. Bogdanov. Please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u26	So we offer what Julian Angelov read as motives, and I think the Bulgarian map is extremely important, extremely important...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u27	Thank you. Is there another line? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman! My fellow Member, I have been listening to your speech. In fact, it contained to a large extent the motives of the opinion that the Ministry of Interior has deposited with the National Assembly. Frankly, I wouldn't bet on these motives, as ministries often draw up opinions based on clerical opinions, and officials are only interested in how to have less work and how not to make their lives difficult. Our task is to make it difficult for the civil servants to live, but to give our nation some extra perspective for development. In this respect, you have only had two legitimate reproaches on our proposal. It is about visas, about the need for a visa, and that the document cannot be longer than 5 years. But it is not related to the idea of the Bill.. These are things that can change between first and second readings and be in sync with the directives quoted by you. So my appeal to you is to support the great idea that Bulgarians around the world should have empathy for the country, should be able to enter the territory of Bulgaria, to stay here as long as they want, whenever they want, to participate in any sphere of public life, to come back to the country whenever they want. That's what we want you to support. We are aware that there are some gaps and some imperfections of the texts that need to be removed, and we will work on them between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Is there a third line? Mr. Baychev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll turn the line to the line. First of all, thank you to Mr. Veselinov, who said from the stands that the Ministry of Justice is not working, the officials are not working. I can't tell if this is true, if this is the case, just in that case you need to reconsider your coalition policy and make these people work. In the next place, however, I am addressing both Mr. Bogdanov and you, Mr. Veselinov, you recommend that we make an exception to the right and, basically, create a recurrence of violation of the legislation in the part of European legislation, which I fear will bring further bad proposals. Here, I will quote what your former colleague from Ataka said when we adopted the Law on measures against money laundering before the Presidency at the beginning of 2018: let us adopt this law, to see from Europe that we have such a bill. I'm very sorry, but this practice of showing ourselves to foreigners, showing ourselves to compatriots in some better light in the long run doesn't bring us a good policy, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u31	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u32	Thank you. A statement, but first Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill we present to your attention is extremely important in two aspects. On the one hand, the need for such a law is determined by the needs of the labour market, the lack of mainly qualified professionals, which, unfortunately, our education system and overall education cannot guarantee and provide. The second aspect is demographic. At the beginning of my exhibition, I would like to remind you that this is a consistent policy of the United Member States, which has already been able to make two very serious changes in Bulgarian legislation in this direction, in the same spirit, namely: in 2017 the benefits that were achieved in the regulation on labour migration and labour mobility, which enabled for the three-month supply of labour mainly by the countries where there is a Bulgarian diaspora, which literally within 7 days gave the opportunity to obtain a right to work; the second in 2018 the changes in several laws that are related to the relief of the blue card regime. Mr. Veselinov, perhaps you should have said that in your exhibition at the beginning of today, because it is also a great success. Now this law I congratulate my colleagues from IMRO because they have been working on it for many years, is a great law and generally does not find the hot water, Mr. Baychev. This regime was introduced mainly in the Republic of Poland, where, as a result of these reliefs, they provided a basic workforce of over one million people. Why do I say labor and not Poles? Because most of this million are people who don't have Polish origins. And, unfortunately, while we are wondering whether to introduce, whether to serve some lobbyists, not to say not very clean interests of the trade unions in Bulgaria, at the same time precisely from Ukraine for the second year now our fellows of Bulgarian origin are going to work in Poland instead of coming to work in Bulgaria. And my question is: at the moment I cannot speak in a reasoned and prepared way about the regulations that you are quoting, but why do these regulations not apply to Poland, and you think that they should apply to Bulgaria? But at the moment I should not be making a reply to you, I am simply marking the basic needs and benefits of such a law, which is extremely important, is well written, clear, explicit and which will be a very serious step in solving the demographic problems of Bulgaria. Now this is the second major benefit of such a law. This is the way to solve Bulgaria's demographic problems. All the other ways, the means, the legislative changes we have discussed, the debate, we have quarreled in this House, my belief is that they give absolutely no result. This is what the results from other countries, which, with some serious money, stimulated the birth rate of a first, second and third child. No, this results neither in Hungary nor in Russia. The results are within a percentage of a percentage and a half. This is a wrong direction for solving the demographic problems of Bulgaria. Others are the reasons that determine the desire of a family to create a generation and the size of their children. There are quite other reasons, but this is not the place, nor does it have time to argue and debate them. But the opening of Bulgarian borders, on the Bulgarian labour market to our diaspora, which numbers several hundred thousand, perhaps more than a million, in the countries with population of Bulgarian origin, would solve Bulgaria's very serious demographic problem. And this is the way to quickly solve this problem. The other way is, we've been debating it, and I've been answering your questions about generation creation, his education, his professional qualifications and so on, and so on for twenty years. No, this will not solve the issue either on the labour market or on the demographics of Bulgaria! It does not seem very civilized, but this is the way they have solved their problems both Poland and Hungary and the Czech Republic and Germany by attracting people of their origin, or at all by attracting and enabling access to the labour market. From then on, people who come to work in Bulgaria, they create families, create their own generation, which receives Bulgarian citizenship. So I warmly appeal to you to support this bill. Naturally, we are ready for changes between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. [[Noise.]] Guys, it's a little loud in the hall. I understand you're tired, but... Are there lines? The line, Mr. Baychev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Simeonov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! We have again returned to the topic of labour imports. I am very sorry, but Bulgaria will experience a shortage of labour while there is low pay. Let's face it and settle this once and for all. I can't tell you how short labour is at the moment. While you were talking, I was looking, I couldn't find either, there wasn't time for you to quickly finish your speech, but if you notice the influx there is for MPs, where the pay I dare to claim is good, I think that if the Bulgarian worker, employee and at all every career profession receive a good reward, they will not suffer from lack of labour. So we need to work and think in the direction of raising the wage of employees, not how to bring poorer people than us to work on a minimum wage. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u36	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Baichev, I'm going to start my ass with one question. Do you support all your relatives on your salary?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u38	Some of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u39	Are they working? Do they get salaries? Why are they in Bulgaria? Why are my relatives in Bulgaria? Why are my children in Bulgaria? Why are two and a half million workers in Bulgaria if the salary is so small? It is not a matter of salary and returning this topic in such a simple, populist way does not honor you. It's a question of a consumer basket. What can you buy? What are the prices in Bulgaria? What can you afford? What is the price, starting with the price of food, with the price of services and so on? For a reason, most of the services in Bulgaria are used by foreigners. They come to do more than just their teeth. They even come to repair their cars and there are such cases because there is an extended sector with low prices and so on, but it is not just that. The question of salary is not: with this salary, what kind of existence can you provide for yourself and your family? From this point of view, if we compare the salaries in Bulgaria with the salaries of the countries from which we expect our compatriots of Bulgarian origin to come, the difference is several times. Moreover, salary is not always the main thing that motivates a person to live in Bulgaria or leave it, so I do not take your argument firmly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Angelov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u41	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For me again it is surprising why the position of BSP is against the Bulgarian national interests? That's one more time! From the DPS we expect it. Here they are not in the room, they will not support, they will not participate. They have a sultan, he orders them and they know what to do. But BSP to stand against philosophy because the unspeakable, the BSP spoke, gave arguments for which he may have a right, but here we support at first reading the philosophy of the Law that we have proposed. We do not support a member by term, point by point, but philosophy. I think that by the philosophy of this law there should be no discrepancy between the Bulgarian political parties. You of the BSP once again stand against the national interests of Bulgaria. You say that we are violating European law. But we are mostly Bulgarians, and then we are members of the European Union! If Poland and Greece can bring it in and do it, so can we. Have they broken European law? Is that BSP's target? So you're waiting for someone from Europe to tell you what to do? Well, in the end, we're an independent state. We may be part of the European Union, but we must protect the Bulgarian communities abroad and we must do so, there are ways, and we have proposed. Between first and second reading of this law, you can offer everything you think is right, which will not violate European legislation, which will improve what we have proposed, and we will also support it. But from you, colleagues from BSP, we expected you to be truly national responsible and to protect Bulgaria's national interest and support the philosophy of the Law. That's the important thing. If we, as Bulgarian Parliament and Bulgarian parties, do not have a single position for Bulgarian communities abroad, we will never find a single position for politics in Bulgaria to solve people's problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u42	Thank you. A line? We must extend the group's time, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u43	How much time do we have?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u44	Nothing, we've already gone through it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u45	Zoom in?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u46	Let's zoom in, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u47	One minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u48	Increase the time! You already have a normal time. You have three minutes and forty seconds. That's more than one line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u49	Mr. Chairman! I will be much shorter and address my associate Mr. Angelov with a line. Mr. Angelov, however, you should have been a little more specific to the people who are not aware of this problem, who have not been and have not met with the Bulgarians, especially in Ukraine, and should have been more specific. You should explain why Bulgarians from Ukraine will come, and seriously, to Bulgaria. You should have explained that the pension in Ukraine for their currency is 1200 bracelets, paid 35 dollars a month. And you had to explain that a lot of these people are farmers. And the strategic field of Bulgaria Strandja Sakar, I do not need to explain it here only to the military to understand it, has been depopulated since Zhivkovo time. There, in this area, there is a great hunger of labor.. especially in agriculture. So, Mr. Angelov, you had to say these things to make it clear to colleagues who are not familiar. We regularly go to Ukraine, regularly meet Bulgarians there and we are aware of their standard of living. And the other explained it, Mr. Simeonov... demographic policy, that is one way. Because the people there don't give birth to one child, as we give birth to two, give birth to five, six children. This is the situation with demographic policy. Otherwise, it was seen that these measures did not work even in Hungary, which made great reliefs for raising the birth rate, it appears that these measures did not work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Another line? Second line, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Angelov, I listened to you carefully and I think I answered you carefully when you gave your motives. Whether I agree with them or not, whether they are true or not, is the subject of another conversation. But in your speech, you have demonstrated a warring incompetence that cannot conceal your lack of legal knowledge. [[Voices by "United Patriarchs: "Eee! "]] It is nice to address a colleague who is a lawyer and will clarify and explain what the philosophy of the law means. It will also explain to you what social status is, thanks to the identity card you wish to raise. So, colleagues, it's nice when you use words to know their meaning. Thank you. [[Noise and lines by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u52	Mr. Angelov, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u53	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Atanasov! Mr. Baychev, I didn't say you weren't competent, did I? And you could have saved yourself those qualifications. Of those colleagues who have spoken so far, I don't know anyone who's a lawyer, and that's what you called them. I guess someone else isn't in class, is it? Not me? So when you talk about incompetence, first, really sit down, study the questions and then give assessments and qualifications, because, as Mr. Atanasov said, with a $35 pension, and you in your speech previously talked about how these Bulgarians could come with investments. What kind of investment should they come with? With 20 euros a salary and 35 dollars a pension will invest and we will give him citizenship for investment or residence for investment. That's pathetic and funny! We are not talking about attracting foreigners, but we are talking about attracting Bulgarians by kind, name and language. If your idea of BSP, or specifically yours, Mr. Baychev, is to attract from the Third World some people for investment, this is your problem, not ours. During the last three years and something, Mr. Simeonov was Deputy Prime Minister, we have done very little for the Bulgarian communities abroad together with our partners from GERB. We increased the reception of Bulgarians from several hundred to over 2000 under Order No 103; their scholarships from 100 BGN. 250 BGN. per month; the blue card for work in Bulgaria for people of Bulgarian origin is increased and receive it as quickly as possible. Anyone who has Bulgarian origin can immediately start working in Bulgaria in a company based only on this certificate and then draw up his other documents. Over half a million BGN this year are given to Bulgarian organizations abroad to support their activities. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has invested over 3.5 million every year in the countries Moldova, Ukraine, Albania, Kosovo, Serbia, Macedonia, where Bulgarian communities live, culture, education, infrastructure and so on. These are things that we have done for our countrymen, but we believe that it is another thing that will enable them to join Mother Bulgaria more quickly. Any such thing is better. Not that they don't have a chance now, but let us show them that as Bulgarian politicians we think about them, we are behind them and we want to solve their problems. [[Noise and lines.]] Visas, yes, but for a visa for people with such a personal document, the stamp can fight at the border. This is what they do in other European countries and we all know it. But there is no need for these people to take out visas each time, for example, to come on holiday in Bulgaria on the Black Sea or at the winter resorts, which have a financial opportunity, they will enter with this card at any time. This will be in support and support of the Bulgarian economy, not only of national interest as a national interest. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I close the debates and put to the vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 954-01-39, submitted by the National Representative Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. They voted 129 MPs: 102, against 23, abstention 4. [[Applause from OP.]] The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURES AGAINST PARI'S TESTING. The people's representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs are importing. Mr. Nunev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 054-01-112, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov and a group of MPs on 9 December 2020. At its regular meeting held on 16 December 2020, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 054-01-112, submitted by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov and a group of MPs on 9 December 2020. The meeting was attended by Tanya Karakash, Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate at SANS; Tsvetelina Stoyanova, Head of the Department of Finance Intelligence at SANS; Yevgeny Ivanov, Executive Director and member of the Board of CRIB; Maria Mincheva, Vice-President of the Bulgarian Industrial Association. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Manoil Manev. The proposed bill aims to reduce the administrative burden for a certain category of debtors under art. 4 t. 19 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering without affecting the purposes pursued by the Law. In accordance with art. 4 t. 19 of the Law on measures against money laundering debtors under the Law are the wholesalers. Unlike t. 20 of the same article, where the circle of the entities is outlined according to the nature of the goods in which the arms, oil and petroleum products are traded, which are clearly considered to be an increased risk of money laundering or terrorist financing, the text of this article. 19 does not make such a distinction, i.e. it covers all wholesalers, regardless of the type and value of the goods, without giving a definition of the concept of a wholesaler and puts Bulgarian traders in a less favourable position than their competitors from other European countries. Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing does not explicitly include wholesalers among debtors, but contains one specific provision for traders, namely point (e) of art. 2, para. 1, t. 3 Other persons trading in goods where the cash payments made or received amount to 10 000 euros or more. On the basis of art. 3 of the Law on limitation of payments in cash, payments in cash in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are limited only to amounts of up to 10 000 BGN, equal to EUR 5 112.92 at the fixed exchange rate of the Bulgarian National Bank. Payments of a value equal to or exceeding BGN 10 000 and less than BGN 10 000, but where they can be considered as part of related payment transactions on the same basis, the total value of which is equal to or greater than BGN 10 000 shall be made only by means of a transfer or payment account. These rules shall also apply in the case of foreign currency payments where their equivalent is equal to or greater than BGN 10 000. The equal value in Bulgarian levs is determined according to the course of the Bulgarian National Bank on the day of payment. Therefore, in Bulgaria, those who trade in goods of a value of EUR 10 000 or more should make or receive payments only by means of a transfer or payment account, as cash payments equal to or greater than BGN 10 000 are prohibited. According to the bill, opinions were received from the Ministry of Finance and the State Agency "National Security" expressing support for the proposals for amending the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The following discussion was attended by Mr. Evgeny Ivanov Executive Director of CRIB, Mrs. Maria Mincheva Vice-President of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, and Mrs. Yana Ivanova Executive Director of the Association Food and Beverage, who argued to defend their thesis that wholesalers should drop out as an obliged entity under the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Due to the need for the timely adoption and entry into force of the bill under consideration Mr. Nunev made a proposal under art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be submitted to the Draft for discussion at the first and second votes in one session to which the Second Voting Report shall apply. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 11......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches, I am calling the debate. I put to the vote the bill amending the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 054-01-112, tabled by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tzipov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since there were no debates and discussions on the so submitted bill and it was unanimously supported at the Commission meeting, I propose on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, let us proceed to a second vote on the newly adopted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u58	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 93 MPs: 77 against 9, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u59	The law on measures against money laundering is amended. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Paragraph 1a of the additional provisions is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u60	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the version proposed by the Commission for the texts of § 1 and § 2 respectively. Vote 95 MPs: 78, against 3, abstention 14. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Procedure Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal that the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 054-01-110, submitted on 3 December 2020 by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov and a group of MPs, should be extended by five days to 19 January next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u62	I shall put the procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 93 MPs: 81, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in column 060 of the CR SA template. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Dimova, you have the floor to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, please, on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Rositsa Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u64	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act No 002-01-56 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020. At a meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, No 002-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020. The proposed draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act introduces the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/878 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending the Capital Requirements Directive (Directive 2013/36/EU). The deadline for transposition of the directive is 28 December 2020. The directive is part of the so-called "Bankov package" which conducts a larger review of EU financial legislation in order to reduce risks in the financial sector and strengthen its sustainability. In this regard, the bill is proposed: - introducing a requirement to issue an approval and the possibility of carrying out direct supervision of a financial holding company and mixed financial holding company which is the parent undertaking of a group in the composition of which there is a bank; - rules on joint decisions and cooperation with the competent authorities of the other Member States in order to improve group supervision; - facilitating supervision and improving resolution opportunities for third-country groups through the envisaged obligation for those holding assets in the European Union of more than 40 billion. EUR to establish an intermediate parent undertaking from the European Union; - improving the management of interest rate risk in bank portfolios; - improving prudential supervision of branches of banks from third countries; - implementation of a single approach and improvement of the regime related to the imposition of additional capital requirements for banks in Bulgaria; - ensuring that BNB can issue recommendations on additional own funds where it considers that to cover unexpected losses in stress situations a bank should maintain an equity amount above minimum capital requirements, an additional capital requirement and capital buffers; - New powers of the BNB are provided for in relation to countering money laundering and terrorist financing in the framework of prudential supervision of the activities of banks, including in the supervisory review process. In relation to the amendments adopted to the Recovery and Restructuring Directive for credit institutions and investment firms, which is also part of the Banking Package, it is envisaged to repeal the possibility of placing a bank under special supervision. The proposed cancellation of the special supervision regime imposes adjustments to the relevant provisions of the Bankruptcy Act containing reference to that procedure. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: 16 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Report of the Commission for Control of Security Services Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u67	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act No 002-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020. At a meeting held on 5 November 2020, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, No 002-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the State Agency of National Security. The Bill confers new powers on the Bulgarian National Bank in relation to countering money laundering or terrorist financing in the framework of prudential supervision of the activities of banks, including in the supervisory review process. In case of suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing or an increased risk of such actions, the Bulgarian National Bank may review the suitability of the persons who manage and represent the bank and, if necessary, order their release. In this regard, the Bulgarian National Bank and the State Agency are proposed to cooperate within their competence and to provide information necessary for the implementation of their powers under the law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the Law on Measures against Terrorism Financing. On the part of the State Agency "National Security" voiced support for the proposed texts. It has been noted that in the activities carried out by the Agency to prevent, detect and counter money laundering and terrorist financing an essential factor in achieving the objectives set out in the special laws is precisely the exchange of information and interaction with relevant national authorities and organisations of other countries. After the discussion, the Commission, with 2 votes for the Commission, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers, proposed that the National Assembly adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, No 002-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The BSP Parliamentary Group will support this bill, both by the way and the Bill on the next item, because, in our opinion, after we have analysed the proposed texts, which are in fact quite justified texts proposed mainly by the Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission, that they are in complete harmony with the recommendations of the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the European Central Bank and create opportunities for improving banking supervision in Bulgaria, of course by giving powers to the Bulgarian National Bank and, together with this, assigning it, however, greater responsibilities. As we are talking about harmonisation of the supervisory activities of BNB with that of the European Central Bank and national banks of the European Union, we would like to emphasise that such greater opportunities are created in four directions. Firstly, opportunities for direct supervision of financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies are created, which is particularly important. Second, perhaps the most important change, this is the opportunity of BNB to impose additional requirements for additional capital, and it is of Tier 1 in relation to SET 1, including for the majority of Common Equity Tier 1 banks, which must be at least three quarters of this possible capital increase as an additional above the minimum requirement. Next, an opportunity is created and the Bulgarian National Bank is obliged to provide information in a certain order and criteria to the International Monetary Fund and the Bank for International Payments, which is also related to the Law, which we were just discussing, about possible money laundering. We would also emphasise the fourth direction, and this is that the BNB will be able to replace the auditors of the commercial banks. I open a clamp, you remember that in past scandals it turned out that audit firms, sounding with reliable international names, had misled the clients of commercial banks in Bulgaria, were misled the Bulgarian National Bank, and now is given the opportunity to BNB in the slightest doubt of professionalism in the approach of the auditor to change it. We therefore believe that we should support the implementation of these directives in Bulgarian terms, as they do create conditions for improving supervisory activity. Of course, we hope that the supervision of BNB and the management of BNB, respectively, the management of the Financial Supervision Commission will take advantage of these additional powers and implement them so that the effectiveness of banking supervision really improves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, No 002-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The bill has been passed. Let's move on to the next point: For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Ms. Angelova, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Requesting clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, let us allow in the hall Marinella Petrova Deputy Minister of Finance, and Rositsa Petkova Head of the Department of Financial Markets.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u72	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite Mrs. Petrova to the hall. Please continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u73	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 002-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. At a meeting held on 2 December 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 002-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms proposes amendments and additions to the national legal framework for the restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms that fulfil the commitments to implement the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/879 amending Directive 2014/59/EU as regards the capacity to absorb losses and recapitalisation of credit institutions and investment firms. The time limit for transposition of the Directive is 28 December 2020. The changes are primarily aimed at creating guarantees that banks have sufficient capacity to cover losses and recapitalisations so that, during the restructuring and immediately thereafter, they can continue to perform their critical functions without compromising public finances and financial stability. In this regard, the bill is proposed: - regulation of the terms and conditions for determining and applying the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities differentiated by the type of entity; - Compliance with the credit eligibility of liabilities included in the scope of the loss-sharing instrument with the criteria laid down in the CRR for own funds requirements; - increased protection of retail clients when selling subordinated liabilities that are acceptable for the purposes of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities; - the introduction of more detailed arrangements for group resolution plans, expressly providing for the possibility to separate several resolution groups within a group; - extending the resolution authority's powers to suspend the execution of certain obligations for the purposes of restructuring; - explicit context of the consequences in the event of a finding that the institution is problematic or likely to become problematic, but taking restructuring actions is not in the public interest. Along with the amendments relating to the introduction of Directive (EU) 2019/879 into the Bulgarian legislation with a view to introducing immediate payments in BGN by the end of 2020, the Bill also offers targeted amendments and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. The changes regulate the processes related to settlement of immediate payments in BGN. The immediate payments in BGN will be implemented on the basis of 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and 365 days a year in accordance with the pan-European SEPA immediate payment scheme of the European Payment Board in 2017. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for such proposals, by concluding its discussion with the following results: with 16 votes for the Board of Budgets and Finance, without the opposition and abstention, the Committee of Budgets and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft amending and supplementing the Law on the Reconstruction and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Mediators, No 002-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-13.u74	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 002-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The bill has been passed. Dear colleagues, this is the end of the Work Programme for today. Next regular plenary session on 14 January at 9:00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
